ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Jasmina Opec from 16.30 onward, mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr. Matevž Frangež between 16:00 and 18:00, Mr. Jakob Preseknik, Mr. Bojan Starman, Mr. Franz Pukšič [[For the opening of the sitting, apologies shall be given]] Mr Michael Prevc by 6 p.m. and Mr Roberto Battelli. I also invited a government representative to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 27 September 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Before we decide on the agenda, I ask you once again to check the functioning of the voting devices. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 2. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal recommended in relation to the issue of supervision and the determination of liability under the Financial Business Act, the procedural costs of insolvency and the forced cessation. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u2	Thank you very much. In the introduction, however, let me say a few words on the subject of today's agenda. It is likely that at least some Members, who have also been in the previous term, will be familiar with the subject, some of the sentences are repeated many times, etc. Those who have not been to the National Assembly in the previous term may hear quite a few new things. In my performance, I will reach back in 2007 and 2008, not because I would like to assess the work of the minister who was at the time – I am thinking mainly of Minister Zalar, because there is also a period after 2008 – but because some things are connected to this point that I have to make this transition or a temporary review of the situation in this area backwards. Earlier in the introduction, I should say no to what we heard on the committee this morning – that it is the intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party to create some extraordinary situation as a result of the event on 5 June this year. Something else has to be said — that the opposition is the one who needs to draw attention to the problems in the country, and we will keep them in mind as long as necessary. I also note that the Minister and I agree more or less with each other. If I am going back in 2007 and 2008, I must say that Minister Sturm had proposed at that time and the National Assembly had adopted new bankruptcy legislation. For the first time since 2004, this happened, but this was a time when there were not many bankruptcys, a time when there was no such mass of bankruptcys as today. This law has brought some of the most important things. All cases in the area of bankruptcy, in particular court decisions, decisions on awards to insolvency administrators and all other court decisions relating to bankruptcys, have become publicly published, free of charge at Iipes. Everyone has the opportunity to assess what is going on in this area and until then, everything has been hidden from the public and also from Members. That's of great importance. Therefore, in the period after 2008, when we were entitled to or able to access this data, we could also identify what is going on in this area. It must be said that at the time – I am talking about the work of Minister Šturm – the law was proposed, and the National Assembly confirmed that many things had come under the authority of the Minister of Justice in the law. I am talking in particular about responsibility, the possibility of resolving bankruptcy managers due to mistakes, etc. However, since 2008, and at the time that Mr Zalar was headed by the Ministry, there have been numerous amendments to the law. I think we already have a "J" version of this law, and I will only mention those who seem important to me who, in my opinion, have contributed to a great anarchy in this area. As early as May 2009, Minister Zalar proposed the amendment "A" to this law. To simplify what this novel has brought – this novel has brought an opportunity for enormous awards to bankruptcy managers. This is what we first disagreed with on the committee this morning, and then even agreed with the High Court representative, and I forgot my name to the Supreme Court. [[...]] What was that all about? Minister Šturm has made it very clear that the old criteria for the award of bankruptcy managers are used for bankruptcy, initiated under the old law, and with this change Minister Zalar has foreseen that new criteria are being applied to old bankruptcys, initiated under the old law. The new criteria did not know the upper limit for bankruptcy awards. I am talking about the criteria of Minister Sturm at the time. The result was that in this area there were great disruptions and incredible rewards, which were then slowly realized, if we say so, by then also by then Minister Zalar, who is 1. Seven. 2009 did extreme stupidity or premeditated action — let him decide for himself what he did — when he said he would limit the rulebook to bankruptcy awards. What happened? It's a disaster in eight days, and I'm going to describe it below. Any observations we heard on the committee this morning, first by the representative of the Supreme Court, who then corrected himself – you are members of the committee you may have noticed. Let me tell you something. In January 2009, 106,000 monetary prizes were paid to bankruptcy managers under a rule that did not know the above limits, according to Mr Sturm's rules. February 81,000, March 210, April 555 and May 475 thousand. Then comes the novel proposed by Mr Zalar, and in 15 days, I stress that in 15 days the courts set a million 134 thousand prizes for bankruptcy managers and in the first 8 working days of July 2009 as many as 2 million 300 thousand – in 8 days more than in the whole year. This is due to the actions of Minister Zalar and nothing else. KPK didn't notice the case, it wasn't a problem for KPK. They don't do that, they deal with electricity billing for some. They didn't notice it, but the minister who said he'd report it. He reported them — to whom? The state's attorneys and bankruptcy administrators, whom I claim to have agreed on such enormous awards, have agreed. Today, five years or four years after that, we do not have judicial, prosecutorial, police products on this subject. No one's responsible for anything, absolutely nothing. Let me give you a typical example from that time. It's a case of bankruptcy. 440 000 euros was set by the bankruptcy award judge to the bankruptcy manager, forgetting that he had already given him 160,000 euros in advance, and that person had spent 160,000 euros too much in his pocket. But the workers didn't get paid, that's what I think you can understand. The higher court in Ljubljana found this and said that this is a state of spirit in this country where no one is responsible for anything. But the money can't be recovered, the bankruptcy manager put it in his pocket. The following matter, which is important in this regard, is that there has been the establishment of the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia, and the Minister has transferred to them all, including the decision on disciplinary procedures. This means that bankruptcy managers decide on their own responsibility and, of course, there is no responsibility. Another important news occurred at this time. It was adopted by KZ-1B, which eliminated the offence of causing bankruptcy by mismanagement. This crime did not require proof of intent. However, it brought bankruptcy with the aim of damaging creditors, which must be demonstrated by slander, and we no longer have these crimes after that time. The criminal acts in this area, such as are now defined in the law, are no longer. From the point of view of bankruptcy, there are no more such crimes. That's what contributed to this, and that's why we filed this request, which is why we came up with a case called Friends in bankruptcy. You could see this this spring when the media released it and when they started reporting how judges and bankruptcy managers are hanging out, having fun together, giving each other a gift – bankruptcy judges to make us more clear. Then these prizes return in a different way when it is necessary to make a decision and to give a prize to whom. Look what happened next. First, the President of the Supreme Court said: otherwise it is morally controversial and not good, but these are some old recordings and we will not be dealing with them. Then the media released more recent footage from 2011, and then it happened — what? The judicial branch of power says: yes, we will act in accordance with our powers. The Board of Governors says, yes, we will act with our responsibilities. We're here at a point where today's meeting is also at hand. All acted in accordance with their responsibilities and no one found any irregularities. On the contrary, a chamber of bankruptcy managers says: Everything is fine, nothing is wrong. The judges said one of the judges wasn't going to make any progress, but everything else was fine. It's a ransom of all we've heard on this subject. But it didn't happen. With regard to this non-criminal judge – this is Mrs Jelka Rozman – the judicial authorities have found nothing. To conclude, I will read to you the data of the people who were injured in HKS Sicura. The bankruptcy manager shall not do anything without the consent or knowledge of the bankruptcy judge conducting the insolvency proceedings. The bankruptcy judge, Mrs Rozman, was at Mr Goršet's trial – Gorše was the bankruptcy manager who was currently in prison and sentenced to bankruptcy by HKS Sicura – stressed that Gorše in bankruptcy, HKS Sicura, had learned nothing that she would not know and had nothing to hide from her. So in this case, he abused his position by acquiescing the bankruptcy mass, by damaging the creditors, with the knowledge of Mrs Rozman, according to her words. This case should be followed by the judgment of this judge. But that didn't happen. No charges have been brought against her, but the fact is that overseers should also be involved. With the bankruptcy judge who allowed this, everything is fine and the personal council has considered it very appropriate for further progress. However, she led the bankruptcy, which today caused the bankruptcy manager to be in prison, and she had a review of everything the bankruptcy manager had done, because she also had to have a legal review of everything. It's interesting, say, the position of the chamber. The Chamber dealt with Mr Goršet and in all cases issued all positive opinions on his work and the husband is legally convicted and in prison. Let me conclude, and I'll give you some more information. It is not our intention to create some extraordinary situation. Please be aware that I will always come forward as a proposaler if necessary. Our purpose is to alert you to irregularities and nothing else. The Minister goes on a verbal level in part, although our assessment is not sufficient, even at the proposed level of laws in the right direction. In the morning, even, so I understood him, supported at least some conclusions. The coalition with his client, however, refused to do so. When the meeting is concluded today, it will be empty and we will not vote. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have warned in 2009, we have warned in 2010, we have warned in 2011 and also now. This is the mission of the opposition, and we will do our job. But the responsibility is coalition, even for what makes people lose their wages, their incomes, their hunger and barefoot on the road. The bankruptcy managers are watching their pockets. But that allows them to coalition, then and today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The proposal for a recommendation was made on 1 October 2013, today, as a working body, the Committee on Justice considered. Since the Committee did not adopt the points or parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the home working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Committee on Justice, which was discussed at the urgent meeting today at the Proposal for a Recommendation on the issue of control and accountability under the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. The introductory report was given by Dr Vinko Gorenak, who drew attention mainly to stories from the period when then Minister Zalar hesitated to amend the rules and then, with public warning of this amendment, resulted in the allocation of 2,3 million Euros of bankruptcy awards within one week and all that followed. Such cases in the history of independent Slovenia have been a great deal, and the affair of Friends in bankruptcy, which has been media-dispersed and reverberated, has shown the link between politically equal thinkers and, above all, the highly connected managers of bankruptcy proceedings and judges who should be in charge of controlling these proceedings. In practice, it turned out that some, unfortunately even in justice, did not speak the truth. The case was then heard in particular because there were no sanctions. One of the judges involved in one of the most brazen proceedings was even able to make progress. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice has pointed out that, according to the Government's assessment, things are not appropriate, that they are preparing large-scale legislative changes and that an amendment has already been adopted that has redistributed control between the Ministry and the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia. In doing so, he estimated that some movement had already been made. The representative of the Supreme Court considered that there had been high prizes at stake, but that this allowed for a change of regulations at the time and that, as he said, this was no longer happening. He said that the duration of economic insolvency proceedings has recently been reduced following his assessment, which would be the result of the Triaž programme. The report of the World Bank Business Report 2013 also shows that some progress has been made here. The Coalition Members objected to the fact that the aim of such requirements is mainly to give a negative picture of Slovenian justice or to present it as ineffective when it comes to economic procedures and that the relevant changes should already be in preparation. In the opposition, we considered that the situation in the insolvency area was still bad and that it was not as it should have been that we finally agreed on this at one of the previous meetings and that the deadlines which the European Union had specifically recommended in order to deal with this situation at the end of May this year were not properly respected, and that this issue was clearly highlighted by the European Union as an important development issue for Slovenia. The deadline of September 2013 has also expired definitively as of today and there have been no changes. Finally, the Committee rejected all amendments by the SDS Group based on the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and voted on all parts of the proposal, together with the basic proposals for conclusions, and did not adopt them. On this basis, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a finding was adopted that the consideration of the recommendations at the second stage of the examination concerning the issue of control and the determination of liability under the Financial Action Act, as a consequence, has been completed in the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u5	Thank you. Procedurally, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members and Members would like to invite to read the magnetogram already available, meetings of the Committee on Justice, because what Mr Mag is. Branko Grims said, as president of the working body, that there was a more low level of individual positions, individual Members and Members, in particular from a number of motioners of the request for a meeting, and less than what could be seen from the relationship between the opposition and the coalition at the meeting of the committee. I would like to point out most of all that the amendments that Mr Magg has been talking about. Branko Grims, if these were the amendments adopted on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, the committee rejected them – this is the harshest falsification at today's meeting of the Committee. Therefore, I would suggest to Members and Members that they read the magnetogram and look at what was happening on the committee. The way in which they will know which part of the magnetogram I mean is to look at what the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said, which in one part stressed that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has been taken into account, but that the issue still remains that which is fundamental – which the committee can discuss as part of the legislative branch of the judiciary and the proposed topic. This is on a general level, not on specific issues. As discussed on specific issues, the introductory explanation could now also be seen. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u7	Thank you. We really have a lot of time to debate, so I think it will be possible to read such a report by the Committee in full in writing as well as a magnetogram. He's trying to get mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u8	Thank you. I suggest, Mr President, that you remind Mrs Potter that this is not a procedural proposal and that this was a pure abuse of the rules of procedure. That's the first one. Secondly, to warn her that she had before her desk a written report prepared by the professional service on the basis of a magnetogram, and that she could convince herself on her own if she followed my presentation that I had read, as far as the time frame had allowed, the lines in this report. If she didn't like the choice, that's what happened. However, I assure you, Mrs Poteta, that in my presentation I will make sure, on behalf of the SDS Group, that I will also shed light on all that I have been able to do in this presentation on the Committee as Chairman of the Committee. Surely, then, you will be extremely happy to hear what I have said and listen carefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u9	Thank you. I would only point out once again that we have 8 hours and 15 minutes at our disposal, so I am sure that both procedural proposals can come into force. We continue the debate. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Senko Pličanič, Minister of Justice, will present the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The applicant’s starting points relate to 3 content sets: the first on the efficiency of the judiciary, the second on the issue of personal responsibility and transparency in the judiciary, and the third on the issue of the supervision of bankruptcy managers, or generally on the question of the regulation of bankruptcy managers in bankruptcy and other insolvency proceedings. With regard to these three sets, which I have just mentioned, my position is as follows. First things first. When it comes to the effectiveness of the judiciary, let me say that in recent times there have been some very important positive trends, even when it comes to insolvency proceedings, namely a significant reduction in judicial proceedings, insolvency proceedings and other judicial proceedings, which means that the approach we have taken at the beginning of this mandate, and even earlier – I am thinking of the commitment made by the Government and the judiciary, the commitment to citizens and citizens – already shows important results. I've got numbers right here in front of me. I will not burden you with them, but the numbers are very significant and show a significant reduction in all court proceedings, including insolvency proceedings. When it comes to the second question of transparency in the judiciary and the personal responsibility of the judges in the judiciary, it is my view that there is still too little work to be done here, which means that we, in particular the judiciary, still have a lot of work to do here. When it comes to the third issue, the issue of the effectiveness of controls over bankruptcy managers and their overall role in bankruptcy and other insolvency proceedings, let me say, as has already been mentioned, that we, as a government, and also this Parliament, just before summer, have adopted an important novelty, an important amendment to the Financial Business Act, a bankruptcy law in which we have also settled this issue in a slightly different way than it has been so far. Part of the competences that I mentioned to this amendment had been transferred to the Ministry of Justice by the Chamber of Fusion Managers. It has also turned out that, after this transfer, most of the powers remained in the insolvency management chamber, the powers related to the supervision of them, that the current manner of self-control of the bankruptcy chamber over the bankruptcy managers is obviously insufficient, so in the next amendment to the Financial Operations Act, which we will be proposing to the Government and then to Parliament, and will deal in particular with the systemic extension of enterprises, as well as some other issues, we will also address this issue differently than the previously mentioned novelty. We will also propose that some of the other powers that we have left behind at the Chamber of Fusion Managers are transferred to the Ministry of Justice. I think the chambers are different. In the area that I cover, we have a lawyer's room, a notary chamber, and when it comes to a chamber of bankruptcy managers – this is also one of these – a reliable situation is not the same as, say, a bar, and it also exercises control over its own members, but the tradition here is different. I think that the degree of culture that has developed in the long decades of the operation of the law in Slovenia is also different, and such competence is justified. When it comes to a chamber of bankruptcy managers, I think it will take some time for this self-control to be effective, and I think it is more appropriate for this supervision to be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. Let me say something else in general about the context in which today's extraordinary meeting takes place. Most of the attention is focused, as in the previous extraordinary session – this was intended for the state of justice in general – the state of the judiciary. In this regard, my position has always been the same, unchanged, as it has been during the previous extraordinary meeting, as it has been since I was a minister, even in the previous term. The fundamental basis for any debate on the judiciary as a separate branch of state authority must be a clear awareness that the independence of the judiciary is essential for the functioning of democracy. I hope that all Members present and Members of Parliament are well aware of this when you discuss the judiciary. This does not mean that the legislative branch of the state authority and I, as a representative of the government, are not critical when it is necessary, and vice versa, that I do not boast when it is necessary. If I draw the line below what I have said so far - I have commended the judiciary on the part concerning efficiency. Important steps have been taken here in a short period of time. I'm just wondering why they didn't do it before, in all these years after independence. Nevertheless, this needs to be welcomed and supported on this path. I am just coming from a meeting with the European Commission related to the systemic extension of businesses, and let me say that they specifically put on my soul the very fact that we should continue to insist and all together, all three branches of the state government, we are doing our utmost to make the efficiency of the judiciary even greater. If you remember the commitment – here we also set a deadline together, March 2014, when it is supposed to be important purely numerical, quantitatively defined targets for the reduction of judicial proceedings. The results I mentioned earlier that these intermediate results already show the importance of shortening, show that we have done the right thing and that we are all on the right track together. As I have had the opportunity to speak in this House so far, I call on all of you who are sitting here, Members and Members of Parliament, to join forces and to work together in this direction to enable the conditions and the political framework for the judiciary to achieve this objective. Since we can change legislation in any way, the main work that needs to be done here when it comes to reducing judicial proceedings is on the side of the judiciary. The same applies to the second content set, when it comes to the issue of greater transparency in the judiciary, for the greater personal responsibility of judges, including the Presidents of the Courts. If you remember, we also took a legislative step here in the summer of this year when we changed the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service in this particular work. The amendments adopted were intended to address this particular issue, the issue of increasing efficiency on the one hand and on the other hand the question of increasing accountability in the judiciary. Here too is the main work to be done on the side of the judiciary. In this area, they must take important steps forward, in this direction. Like I said before, I think there's not enough done here. I also come from this meeting with the European Commission with the next communication. When it comes to this issue, in particular the issue of transparency, this is something that the Commission has also seen as very important and has also placed on the soul to work together to make sure that something changes for the better in the short term. When it comes to transparency and personal responsibility, it is not that I expect alone or that anyone should expect from the judiciary that in the various cases to be referred to by the media or to which we ourselves know otherwise that the contention of the conduct of individual judges and judges should always be condemned. We do not know what is at stake, but it is important that the judiciary conducts procedures as it should – I have no doubt at all – and that it does what it has done so far to make it very clear to the public, to our citizens and citizens, to all of us, that in any case it will be perfectly clear what they have found and why they have done as they are. It is quite possible that in any of the cases mentioned by Mr Gorenak or in any past cases that have not been mentioned, there was nothing illegal and that everything was fine. What's problematic here is that there's an impression in the public, and that's because there's too little transparency, because there's too little communication, that there's something wrong here, that there's some connections that are inappropriate and similar. In this regard, let me draw attention to something that awaits us and that we will submit to the Government for consideration in a short time, and then to the Parliament – the implementation of the recommendations of the Greek international group, which, when analysing the situation in the judiciary, specifically warned that more should be done for, for the first time, greater transparency of action, of the work of the judges and, secondly, for the adoption of the ethical code of conduct, of the code of conduct, what is appropriate and what is not, which would then be defined also by such practices as were mentioned in the implementation of Mr Gorenak, and clear guidelines on conflicts of interest at the time of the exercise of the function. That's what I said. These are recommendations made by Greece This will be one of the legislative changes in the second package of changes that we are preparing and will be proposed to the Government in turn by the end of this year. Between 10 and 15 laws will be amended. When it comes specifically to this question, which Greece is talking about and which we are also talking about today – greater transparency and personal responsibility – I am also counting on the constructive cooperation of the Council of Justice as a special body with important powers in this particular area. I exactly expect him to be proactive and more committed than ever before, both with regard to the proposals on how to make the guidelines, the recommendations of Greece should be legalised and, once they have been adopted, their implementation. I think that the Council of Justice is, by Slovenian constitution, the one with the highest responsibility when it comes to the exercise of personal responsibility and greater transparency in the work of judges. Let me conclude by summarizing the Government's activities in relation to the third set, the issue of the supervision of bankruptcy managers in general, or the changes in bankruptcy and insolvency legislation in general. As I have already mentioned and as you know, one of the main projects that we are now dealing with alone and a whole range of other people is a systemic extension, which is now one of the key issues in Slovenia. You also know that this is a legal area that is extremely complex, difficult, and that it is also a multitude of different interests. It's no big deal, and that's what's going on somewhere else. However, we are preparing a legislative framework that will allow businesses and their creditors to agree on financial restructuring with a view to extending the debt of over-indebted Slovenian companies. These are about 26 000, about two thirds of all Slovenian companies. In this context, it is very likely that the Financial Act, the bankruptcy and insolvency law, as I have already mentioned, will also be amended. In the context of this amendment, which will be intended for a systemic extension, we will, as I said earlier, propose the transfer of some other powers currently vested in the Chamber of Fusion Managers to the Ministry of Justice, those related to the supervision of bankruptcy managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u11	Thank you, too, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Before I give you my word, I would just like to remind you or point out that in presenting the views of the groups in question, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the report, such as the Committee or with the representative of the government, is not the subject of a controversy between the rapporteurs. We have this option in the debate. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u12	A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party as the proposer of today's meeting! The non-European situation in Slovenian justice is a central Slovenian development problem and is increasingly pressing. This is not a finding of the SDS and it is not as has been repeatedly said that part of the policy wants to show the judiciary as ineffective or negative. This is the European Commission's conclusion. On 29 May 2013, a report was published on the website of the European Council, previously coordinated with the European Commission, which also touches the situation in Slovenian justice. For 6 countries, it was found that the problems there are large, that this is a non-European situation, and one of them is Slovenia. Let me translate two key points addressed to Slovenia by the European Union at that time: "Rewards efforts so far to reduce the duration of judicial proceedings at first instance in civil matters and the number of cases pending treatment in particular in matters relating to enforcement." And then: "By September 2013, the necessary legal framework for out-of-court restructuring should be adopted to ensure that it complies with existing insolvency provisions and provides incentives for both creditors and shareholders to decide on out-of-court restructuring arrangements." In the same paragraph, with the same hand. It goes on to say: "Implementation of insolvency proceedings in companies and legal proceedings should be improved, including the swift resolution of court cases in connection with insolvency proceedings pending consideration, that the value of recovered funds should be maximised and that timely and effective resolution of bad loans should be encouraged." This further substantiated: 'The right to be denied is a right denied.' If justice is achieved too late, there is no right, but it can be a new injustice. What this means in entrepreneurship is probably clear to everyone, I hope. If someone gains the right and, say, gets some hard-earned money after 5 years or even later, then that company can be in bankruptcy a long time ago, people on the road, and their families are inexistently threatened. At that time, too, there is no right. Therefore, the question of the speed of decision-making, the correctness of decision-making, the issue of procedures in this case is crucial. Let me continue with the opinion of the European Commission: "The investment decision societies take into account the risk that they may be involved in economic disputes, labour disputes, tax disputes or payment instability. The efficiency with which the justice system in the country deals with such disputes is very important. For example, the longer the dispute persists, the more expensive it becomes to execute the supply contract or the service contract. After a certain period of time, it sometimes becomes even irrelevant as it reduces the likelihood of payment on the basis of a contract or payment of a contract penalty." The deadlines for implementing these comments were given in the report itself. Let me repeat, this was September 2013. Today is October 1st, 2013. The deadline's up, but nothing happened. So much for why this meeting is still so important, and it was more than justified and also properly timed. But something else is interesting — that the voting machine of the coalition has rejected all proposals, including amendments prepared by the SDS. Let me read the last, fourth among them, which, in my opinion, is most important because it touches on the very topic I am talking about – comments, key warnings from the European Union or the institutions of the European Union regarding our justice. It read: "The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare appropriate amendments to bankruptcy legislation so that the speed of proceedings under the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination at least on average of the Member States of the European Union." The coalition machine has also rejected this proposal in cold cold. In doing so, he expressed the coalition's political will to keep the judiciary working non-European. This is otherwise politically impossible to analyse, such a vote. This raises a number of questions about what kind of country we live in. The issue of the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, if I return to the starting point, is becoming the most critical Slovenian development issue. Spoiled ties, friendships between bankruptcy managers and those judges who should supervise them show some uniformity in the functioning of the system. This is reflected in some way, in a non-democratic way, also in the constant denial of Parliament, especially the opposition, of the right to speak publicly in Parliament. It is said that this is not to be talked about, it is an autonomous branch of power. This indicates the deep undemocraticness of those who say so. Because what does democracy really do? This was well established by the fathers of the American Constitution and also by the time of the French Revolution, from another point of view. This is called in English checks and balances or the balance of different branches of government and their mutual control. This does not mean that the legislative branch of power should not say anything about the situation in the judicial branch of power. On the contrary, if you go to read the textbooks of constitutional law, including those here in Parliament, in the library below, you will see that in all the international textbooks of constitutional law and also in what Slovenian is well written that the quantity of public debate in the public, the interested public, the professional public and also in the political public, and in Parliament, is the criterion of the democraticity of the individual country, especially when it comes to the area of justice when it comes to the situation in justice, the decisions in justice, the legal judgments in justice. At that time, the country's democracy is weighed by how public it is discussed. Therefore, these meetings are certainly not as fruitless as they are trying to disqualify themselves in advance, but are extremely important, important twice – because they touch on issues of democraticism and because they touch on issues of economic efficiency in the area on which, as the European Union has said, it has specifically warned us that the situation is non-European. This can be demonstrated by individual decisions. In order not to be too long, allow me to give you just a few. Within the judiciary, we have decisions when it comes to judges who directly participated in the supervision, who were responsible for exercising control in the proceedings when someone for violations of the law was legally sentenced to imprisonment and were later acquitted of any liability. One of these judges can progress peacefully in his profession without anything happening to her. Where is the principle of responsibility? Then too often it has been tried to disqualify every debate, including this proposal today, if only those debates leading towards amending some legislation are meaningful in Parliament. Let me point out two areas where it is obviously necessary to amend legislation. One thing is that it will also be necessary to consider interfering with the Constitution and to raise the question of the principle of the responsibility of judges to do it in the way that Austria is aware of, since we are the same Roman-German constitutional system as the law knows it. There the judge, who is obviously, consciously, or ideologically or from some other interesting point of view, was in breach of the law to sue for personal damages. There is not, as is the case with us, an absolutely untouchable figure, which is not discussed and cannot be dealt with. There is a concrete compensation action to be made there. We should obviously consider this in Slovenia in the light of the examples that were before us today and also all the others that I will not now list. Another problem that we should seriously consider is the recast of the new Penal Code, which was adopted in 2011. There the crime of causing bankruptcy from negligence has changed to the crime of causing bankruptcy by deliberately damaging creditors. The difference is essential, for in another case it is necessary to prove slander, which is extremely difficult, difficult and often unprovable in criminal proceedings. Things can be obvious, but if you can't prove them legally, they don't apply in criminal proceedings. When it comes to negligence, and if it is obvious, if it can be documented by authentic documents, the situation is probably much clearer. For this reason, the law should be amended back to the text adopted by the new Penal Code in 2008 precisely because of cases such as those we are talking about today. This element is also quite present in our proposal and in our debate, and we should talk more about it in Parliament. What is the point of the problem of doing what is right, and why are things moving too slowly? Again and again, the information – including the media – is published to prepare changes at the Ministry of Justice, and then very quickly it turns out that there is no agreement in the coalition that the minister has many allies at his side, I believe that sincere desire to improve the situation in Slovenian justice, in opposition rather than in his own coalition. Why? Because Slovenian justice is the most ideologically planned, barricaded part or branch of power. In Slovenia you can have all the branches of power that are elected in the side, for example, right environments, and this will still be balanced in some way, because you have a judicial branch of power that was 20 years ago, and in many things is now even more ideologically bitten than it was then. You're defending that. This is really the background of what Europe reminds us of – that Slovenian justice is not comparable to European justice. In Europe you will not find a case of such a judgment, which is legally binding – it can be spoken of in public, even in Parliament – to forgive people, and even on television there is a video of a TV camera, that civilians were beaten during the war on Slovenia, and it is said that JLA was not an enemy army until October 1991. These are the achievements of the Slovenian judiciary. Or that someone told someone that you were reprimanding him, came to trial when he was sued, and submitted a paper saying that an officer of the Udba was paid, and the court convicted him, however, legally. He was told that someone who violated human rights in democracy must no longer be told that he violated human rights. It's Slovenian justice. As far away from Europe as that is, I better not talk. Are we moving on to the area of economic law? Where you will find a case in Europe, as you can see in Slovenia, when you deny any connection between insolvency managers and judges, then the photos from their joint parties, where they give each other rich gifts, are published nicely. This means that not only does such control not only work, but everything else works — personal and other interests. Under these great ideological themes in Slovenia, the very personal interests of those who have been defending the existing power ratios that have been dragging for decades are usually hidden. This is why the economy is not moving anywhere in Slovenia. This is also an important development issue because things are not comparable in Europe, because to a large extent there is a condition, including judicial decision, with policy, if you want, judicial policy. You know what court policy is. This is what the legendary President of the German Constitutional Court in this House said well when he replaced the German authorities when Chancellor Kohl replaced Chancellor Schroeder. He said: "There is one small part of those border judgments where until yesterday the same judges in the same laws will be judged so, and from tomorrow they will be different. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a judicial policy." Whenever we talk about judicial policy in Slovenia, it is said: this is not the case. Yes, it is! If we are to move these things from a dead point of view, we will also need to talk openly about it. Today, the Minister is obviously entangled in a coalition that does not want to change the state of justice in the direction of Europe because it is currently politically better for her, because it is in some way one of the permanent foundations of her power. Today's session has a fundamental purpose and purpose in that we wish to express our support in this work, when it is preparing judicial reforms, European reforms. But also to encouragement and expectation – let him bring these proposals to Parliament, so that we can talk openly about them, and find solutions that will be appropriate for Slovenia. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, justice is only – because if you wanted to – in a number of stories you could not decide to make Europe comparable. Laws will have to be amended and laws will bind everything, including justice. If necessary, we should also seriously consider interfering with the constitution, at least in the part where it comes to the issue of personal responsibility, because things like these do not work and are not European comparable. One more thing. It should be avoided to say that some things are not discussed. But then, if there are no arguments, as has already been the case at one meeting today, it begins to speak from an existing coalition that we need political stability. You know, at the moment that Umar predicts a further decline in economic growth by 2.4% or 2.3%, there somewhere, talk about political stability to continue – thank you so much for the political stability of the economic divide at that stage that the soil can no longer fall anywhere. This is no political stability. Here we will have to look very seriously at anyone who can influence the economic life of the country, the development, all institutions, or carry out their task in accordance with European standards, and once and for all something should be stopped. It is that it is constantly scaring Europe, if Europe is ours, Europe is ours. At the moment, Europe is the only guarantee of normality in Slovenia, but what appears to be Slovenian speciality is not normal in Europe and is not successful, because nowhere in the world has it been successful not to talk about models offered as an alternative to the existing state. This is also the case, especially in the area of justice and legislation, where our first example of neighbouring Austria should always be. We have moved a lot in Slovenia in the legislative field from Germany and mainly from the Austrian legal order to Slovenia, but then this will always – an example would be some compensation law up to what, and local self-government, if you want to get rich from another area – with some Slovenian specialities. The result is that this does not work, at least not in a European way. If we want to cut this once and for all, then we should stop detecting hot water and models that work well in Europe, and carry to us without reservation, without doubt, without any strong ideological debates that have nothing else to look for here. Now it is a question of development, and here Europe has drawn attention to the situation in Slovenian justice more than just justified, but also more than timely, in some way even at the extreme moment. These warnings should be taken very seriously and also adhere to deadlines, because Europe does not just set them up. They are interested that Slovenia is an economically efficient entity, that it is an equal partner. Nobody in Europe wants Slovenia as a patient. We are so sorry to be seen by European friends right now. Those in this world who are not our friends, but see us as future prey, and believe me, they want this situation to continue. They want as many friendly ties as possible, as many inefficient governments as possible, the transition left, to be lost in each other's struggles and share the spoils as there is left. This is what they want because then they get the Slovenian economy on their knees, but this cannot be the goal of this country. We were once literally an example of the entire former socialist bloc, a model for countries in transition. We were way ahead of them. Today everything is ahead of us because most of the time they did not have as much unilateral authority as it was in Slovenia – in Slovenia we know that the transition left was in power for almost three quarters of the time or a little longer – and in some branches of government they did not keep all the ballast from the previous regime. This has happened precisely in the judicial branch of power, so it is also always the hardest thing to move when it comes to it, even in the legislative field, although this is not the jurisdiction of the judicial branch of power, but is our jurisdiction. This is the jurisdiction of the legislative branch of power. That is exactly what I was talking about at the outset — the balance between the two. They can judge in accordance with the laws that are passed, and it is our right and duty to adopt laws and to adopt them in such a way that the system works. Since we are an integral part of the European Union, they need to be designed so – absolutely necessary – this is now seen several times clearly – so that we can participate effectively and equally in the economic competition within the European Union. It is now obvious that the situation in Slovenian justice is hindering, hindering, hindering Slovenian development and representing chocolate in Slovenian development. That is why these changes are necessary. This matter is multilayered and does not only touch, if you want, economic legislation in the narrowest sense of the word. It touches on the entire bond law, which would necessarily require very serious changes. It also touches criminal law, at least in that point I mentioned earlier, and there are some such points. There would also be an urgent need for change. It will also be necessary to amend procedural legislation in that part — braver than it has already done — in order to speed up judicial proceedings in order to reduce the possibility of delaying those who do not want to bring the individual proceedings to an end. There can't be any holy cows here anymore. These are fundamental issues of Slovenian development. At a time when Europe is progressing, when relatively positive expectations, development, new development cycle, new development cycle are forecasting in Europe in a short time, a new additional decline is forecast in Slovenia. Just today, you can read the latest predictions of Umar, which are a national disaster. One of the key elements is precisely what we are talking about today – the non-European situation in Slovenian justice, to which the European Union rightly reminds us, and has recommended that at least some of the elements, the most problematic elements, when it comes to economic development, be rectified. But we didn't stick to that hand either. He ran away yesterday. We're just a witness. I'm predicting the Ministry is up to something. This was also an excuse for rejecting all the suggestions we made in the material. But there are no such laws. The question is whether and in what form they will be. There would be a significant need for more courage in proposing this legislation. Time is running out, and no one can return time to this country, not to citizens, not to citizens, not to children, to anyone. On the other hand, it is also a matter of content and quality, which must be comparable once and for all in Europe, and that the legendary Slovenian warm water, which is usually hidden by highly identifiable personal interests, what links of friends in bankruptcy, in particular in this case, and many other aspects of different types of friends when it comes to cutting into each other's pockets at the expense of others, and to look at those models that work effectively and well. Austria is the closest to us and is in line with the constitutional system of our country. From there it should be transferred — consistently and everything. Where this moment of the Constitution prevents us from transferring their solutions, we should also cut into the Constitution. This requires sufficient patience and accountability from all, as it is a matter of achieving a two-thirds majority when it comes to the issue of responsibility. Then you will see how much harmony there is between words and actions. In our words, we are all responsible, in action – today I say that when the proposal that judges be allowed to sue for damages in precisely certain extreme cases, as Austria does, I will gladly support it. I'm sure and believe that I can speak on behalf of the SDS, that SDS too. The provisions on complete immunity in justice and cutting down on those solutions that Germany and Austria also know, allowing it to build on quality, including human quality, even in justice, and that some of the legacyes that have formally ended up in the history dump in one branch of the government are still living and blocking our development, should be examined. We must fully become a country that is comparable and effective and potentially in all areas of social life better than the rest of the European Union. Then we can count on a new and faster development. Until we do, it's a funny thing to expect someone to do it for us. The saddest part is that if some people do not do something in Slovenia, even intentionally, they are blocking, even concrete changes in justice because it is not in their interest, and they are in the interest of continuing the current situation while pointing to Europe with their finger, that it is Europe's fault. Europe has given us a very clear warning. In this House, we all agreed that the warning is justified that the situation in the Slovenian judiciary is not as it should be that the situation in the Slovenian judiciary is not European comparable to that of urgency, but that the time limit given to us by the European Union or the Council of Europe and the European Commission in its recommendation has not occurred, except for this meeting, which obviously goes very well in the nose, which is the best evidence that this meeting is still justified. That the evidence that we all feel — that economic development is on foot, that we are going backwards, that the situation in the economy is alarming — we prefer not to talk at all, for unfortunately, we are coming to the area that is at present more than the hottest. It is that we all believed that there could be no worse government than Borut Pahor's government. Unfortunately, the current government of Mrs Bratušek proves that if the transition left is taken together, it can do even worse and that even worse results can be achieved. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, once and for all, we should stop discussing really pressing issues, including the issues of friends in bankruptcy, including issues related to Slovenian justice, and talk about how this is not discussed, but should openly and argumentatively look at the solutions that operate in Europe and bring them into our justice system without any doubt, without a variety of small branches and dots, which then in practice make it impossible, but should be passed on in full and then the fundamental principle that applies in the European Union, the principle of responsibility, must be applied comprehensively and in all areas, including, if you want, to intervene in damages that they become, as they are in the European Union, including with regard to the speed of individual procedures, that they become like in the European Union, including in all areas, including, if you want, a step in damages to become like in the European Union, and also to the eyes of friends, where there is a sin. It's been over and over again. The fact that this is disputed is also evident by those directly affected by this proves their denial when it began to be discussed until the photographs were published. Since then, it's been said: that's not the problem, because we all have friends. It is a question of control and responsibility when it comes to money, about concrete lives, about the economic efficiency of the whole country. There's no role to play there. Interestingly, however, those who should be formally called upon to do so do not hesitate to do so. I must admit that I do not know the opinion of the anti-corruption commission regarding the so-called affair Friends in bankruptcy. This is where it opens up as a question. But that question is on the sidelines today. The key question is the responsibility of this Parliament to amend the Constitution and legislation at least on the points mentioned as critical. The question is whether it is for this will in the ruling coalition to finally come to Parliament with these proposals and then together find the best solutions for Slovenia. It's about development.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u14	Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! That was it, wasn't it? The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has made a request under the rules of procedure to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the issue of control and accountability under the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. We cannot deny this, but we can challenge the content of the request. Based on old discussions, on newspaper articles and on some documents from the Ministry and the Court. Nothing new. Leave Europe to rest in peace. We have discussed bankruptcy procedures, awards and more in the National Assembly and in the home work body on numerous occasions. The main discussion of the motion for a debate at today's meeting of the Committee on Justice was based on history. The elephant’s history also includes the first part of the claim, especially who is to blame for the payment or for the conclusions signed on the level of the awards for individual insolvency managers. Let me remind you that we discussed awards to bankruptcy managers at several sessions, several days and several hours, and also at extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, whose content was not only on bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings, but we also talked a lot about the judiciary. The fact is that during the period 2008-2009 a regulation was in force which allowed the determination of the so-called unlimited high award for bankruptcy managers. It was adopted under the mandate of the first Janša government. A novel adopted within the mandate of the Pahor's Government has given the Minister something to do with the amounts of the prizes. It is the duty of the Minister to prescribe and fix the maximum amounts of such awards in the act setting out the rate of compensation in insolvency proceedings. Whether the former Minister of Justice was clumsy or hasty in his statements, we will not judge the Social Democrats, for today, during information technology, the Minister's intention to limit the maximum amount of the bankruptcy award even without a press conference would be rounded up. The request asks whether the establishment of the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia has been justified. However, we do not wonder whether we are in favour of professionalization and professional competence of managers. There is also a question of who will supervise the managers. Insolvency law is complex, and procedures are certainly complex and complex. It takes knowledge, skills. We need qualified managers. Social Democrats would be happy if the procedures ended quickly so that they would be more satisfied with workers, creditors and others. We are aware, however, that when the matter is taken so far as bankruptcy or forced settlement takes place, the most dissatisfactioned and affected workers — no work, no wages, no contributions paid. We can say they take their dignity. We expect the Social Democrats from the Chamber and its members to take care of their own reputation, act in accordance with the legislation and the Code adopted. I quote the article of the Code: "Let the manager deal with the debtor's assets as a good master. In its work, it should not seek personal benefit or transmit internal data to third parties who may thus gain a privileged position. The managers should compete with each other only with the quality of their work. In their professional activities, they should promote and strengthen the reputation of the social role of management." Social Democrats believe that the National Assembly is not only easy but must also consider and take decisions on matters within its competence. However, it cannot decide on specific matters which are within the competence of other branches of authority and under the competence of other national authorities. On the basis of legislation, we have the opportunity to discuss matters, to draw attention to mistakes, because that is what people, citizens and citizens expect of us. However, we must be aware that we have limited powers. The Member and Members cannot influence the decisions of the supervisory and inspection services. We can interfere even less with the court's decision. This must also be made clear to those who expect us to wash their bad name. During the last few months, requests for emergency meetings of the Committees and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly have been coming to the fore by the SDS. On the occasion of the urgent meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government last week, the Social Democrats responded with a statement in which we drew attention to another manoeuvre in the middle of the year announced the use of all the political means to which its President committed the biggest opposition party. The request bears his signature. In doing so, it is worrying that the institutions of the rule of law are becoming the real target of this commitment. According to some SDS Members, the hostages of their president are themselves. Compilation of requirements for the convening of emergency or emergency meetings by the SDS imposes a burden on the regular work of the National Assembly. The intention for any price and in any way to divert attention from the debates on the laws submitted and from the adoption of key decisions that will significantly mark the continuation of Slovenia's path in overcoming the severe financial and economic crisis is extremely harmful for citizens and citizens. That is why their calls to participate and to attract the opposition are difficult to take as well-intentioned and credible. Although they are still full of mouth calls after cooperation, their conduct leads to the breakdown of the rule of law and the destruction of the legislative institution. We are committed to discussions leading to better legislative solutions, and under insolvency law, according to the Minister's assurances, the proposal to amend will soon be in the legislative process. The opposition will have the opportunity to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Procedurally, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u16	Mr President, I propose that, on behalf of the SD Group of Members who has now spoken on behalf of the SD Group and said that Europe should rest in peace, make it very serious to note that Slovenia is a constitutional and plebiscite component of the European Union and that Europe alone is not lying in the grave. In the grave lies Slovenian economic success, while on the grave dances various "friends in bankruptcy" and various other friends. One of the key gravediggers is also the non-European functioning of Slovenian justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u17	Thank you. In the introduction to the debates of the parliamentary groups, I would like to point out that it is not possible to argue at the time of the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, so that this is possible in the debates, and I ask you to take this into account in any request for procedural proposals. In your deliberations, you will be able to make these views known, not now, within the debates of the Group of Members. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u18	Thank you, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Citizens' List did not support the proposals for proposals put forward by the applicants for reasons that the National Assembly could not sufficiently take stock of cases of friendly links without looking into specific judicial and bankruptcy files. We cannot say for the procedures, thanks to the intervention of the Minister and the Ministry of Justice, that they are still poorly regulated. They are well arranged, but we would like these procedures to improve. The responsibility of judges and bankruptcy managers is also, in our view, satisfactorily resolved by law. Let only what is already stated in the law be enforced. Much has been said about the adequacy and inadequacy of the responsibility of bankruptcy managers. Pursuant to Article 108 of the ZFPPIP, the Minister of Justice shall refuse to grant an authorisation to act as manager to a person who is not worthy of public confidence in the performance of this function. This condition does not meet those for whom, on the basis of its work, conduct and conduct, it is justified to conclude that the functions of the manager will not be carried out by professional, honest and conscientious means and who has been legally convicted of a criminal offence committed by means of an intention to pursue an official duty or because of one of these offences committed by negligence: causing a death out of negligence, serious injury, particularly serious bodily harm, endangering safety at work, concealing, issuing and unjustifiable acquisitions of business secrecy, laundering of money, issuing of official secrecy, causing general danger or issuing State secrecy, and the penalties have not yet been deleted from the criminal record. This condition is already fulfilled in the event that a criminal procedure has been instituted against the applicant for the suspicion of the service of such a crime and that in this proceeding the accused has become a legal person or the main proceedings have been opened on the basis of an indictment before the judgment of the court. Where the applicant is subject to criminal proceedings for a criminal offence committed against, against, or against, property or against an economy pursued under an official obligation, an investigation or legal action brought without an investigation shall be sufficient to refuse the application. If you are paying attention, and I would like to remind you again of some kind of Muscolo, which we have introduced in the National Assembly as bankruptcy managers. They raised standards without any indication of unconstitutionality, illegality, unnecessaryness, etc. These are bankruptcy managers who, because of their failure to meet these conditions, lose their jobs, lose their ability to earn money. No one here asked whether the charge was enough or not. Without any doubt, we have introduced standards to a profession that manages private money, but we have had concerns when it was necessary to introduce standards in a policy that manages public funds and public affairs. For the same reasons, the Minister of Justice shall suspend the appointment of such a person as manager in new insolvency cases, in proceedings in which he has already been appointed, and shall even resolve him. The bankruptcy managers must perform a very demanding examination for the bankruptcy manager, which shows some degree of professionalism, and yet these are some of the standards that are urgently needed for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. In addition to public trust, the manager must also enjoy the trust of the creditors. The amendment of the ZFPPIPP recently adopted six months ago provided for the new competence of the creditor committee to require creditors to vote on the discharge of the appointed manager if the manager no longer enjoys their trust and to simultaneously vote on the appointment of the new bankruptcy manager. The Board of Directors may, by a majority, vote to replace the bankruptcy manager at any time. This is also a very important institution for the supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers. The liability of the bankruptcy manager. The bankruptcy manager shall be responsible to the creditors for the damage caused by the breach of his obligations and must therefore have an adequate liability insurance amounting to EUR 500 000 per year. Actions that are not consistent with the care of a good expert result in the insolvency administrator's liability, which means that the manager is not only responding to these 500 000 euros, but with all his assets, but must have insurance at the appropriate insurance company to cover the amount of damage up to EUR 500 000 for the guarantee. The next institute, which shows that we cannot say that the supervision of bankruptcy managers is weak, is that all documents of the bankruptcy manager and the courts in a particular bankruptcy procedure are publicly published on the APIS website. They are published because any creditor and others and the courts can at any time file a legal remedy and challenge the actions committed by the bankruptcy manager in the opinion of any creditor — either irrationally or uneconomicly or harmfully. We have the opportunity to cross-invest in legal remedies all against everything and all against the bankruptcy manager. In the case of bankruptcy proceedings, this is a difficult legal area which is difficult to follow without the assistance of a lawyer. However, there are all the action buttons. It is difficult for state institutions to monitor all bankruptcy procedures themselves. It is also not the primary task of the courts. Economic operators on the market must primarily take care of their own interests and protect them adequately. However, they are economic operators, who are creditors and who act on the market as real witches, good economists, etc. If we have a capitalist regime in the economy – at this moment we have it – then we cannot expect the state to provide protection for private capital, investment and property by example of the state of socialism. If we go into entrepreneurship according to the capitalist principle, then we cannot ask the country to exercise a socialist control function. We wish there were as few countries as possible where there is a free economic initiative. We need to be aware that if we call for help from the state, then we need to hold onto our wallets. Every intervention by the state costs and then again due to over-renormalisation of too many state institutions, too much control, problems with closing public finances. We need to agree whether we will have a large-scale country, a large-scale state that costs, or whether we will have a weak country that will perform those necessary supervisory functions in accordance with the modern state service doctrine. In 2012, the Ministry and the Minister in this area already carried out a number of measures. In 2012, the Minister proposed official supervision of the work of seven judges, five in the District Court and two in the Supreme Court regarding the work on bankruptcy in the Economic Department. In 2012, he submitted a proposal for disciplinary proceedings against six bankruptcy managers, where he suspected that those managers were not carrying out their tasks and responsibilities with due professional care. In 2012, the Ministry received 22 notifications on the suspicion of offences following the ZFPPIPP and by September 2013 47 additional notifications on the suspicion of offences related to the operation and operation of bankruptcy managers. On day 26. 9. In 2013, 147 persons were entered in the directory of bankruptcy managers, of which two administrators were suspended on the basis of their request, one administrator was denied a licence for a legal conviction, 31 managers were granted a decision on their request to suspend the appointment of a manager in new cases, and three managers were granted a decision on temporary suspension of appointment for managers in new cases of official duty, the so-called suspension. We cannot say that the supervisory institutions here do not work, that nothing happens to the bankruptcy managers and that no one controls them. The District Court in Ljubljana has also only discovered certain irregularities, and some judges have stopped assigning bankruptcy cases. That's official information, too. As regards the allocation of individual bankruptcy cases to the manager, it is clear and clear that the award takes place automatically, without the possibility of physical intervention. The Ministry shall keep data on managers in its information system in accordance with the law. The programme automatically transmits this data to the Supreme Court database, which is where the process of assigning cases to the bankruptcy manager takes place, which means the automatic allocation of cases. All allocation of cases takes place automatically in the Supreme Court system. There's something else about the judicial branch of power, about justice. We want to have better justice, and on the other hand, we can find that our justice is not as bad as in this house, but we may be overthinking everything. In 2012, Slovenian courts resolved a million and a half cases, mostly very difficult. The data that the Courts of Appeal in the Republic of Slovenia annul only 10 to 15 % of all judgments or judgements indicates that court decisions are generally quite good, quite quality, or that only one in ten would not be rejected in higher instances. Also important information for the economy. In 2012, the District Court in Ljubljana, the Economic Department, resolved 40% more economic justice. In his explanation and request, the applicant is right to say that the longevity of economic disputes and the longevity of bankruptcy proceedings in Slovenia are destructive for entrepreneurship and economy. As a result, many business opportunities and many jobs have been lost. The truth is that judges in particular need to be aware of the importance of their impartiality to the rule of law. It is not just an impartial trial, but the appearance of impartiality that inspires confidence in the rule of law so as not to create the appearance of illicit connections. The judicial profession must be and is everywhere traditional, conservative, and so judges should also act on the outside – with restraint and dignity – so that they do not give reason for the media to write about inappropriate connections, controversial connections that give the judges the appearance that their impartiality is not all right. What are the problems of justice? One problem is that the regulatory arrangements for the award area have been amended several times for bankruptcy managers and, in particular, until the last version of the sub-legislative regulation, which imposed an upper limit on the level of the award to bankruptcy managers, there was considerable uncertainty in the case law regarding the application of individual rules during the transitional period. Too much thought, too quickly changing different laws and regulations can't have a beneficial impact on legal certainty, on efficiency, and this can quickly, knowingly or unconsciously, lead to mistakes, such as these or other ones. Once again, there are about 800 laws in the Republic of Slovenia. We accept or amend them on average 100 per year. I think we will, given the trend, much more. We know 300 different crimes and over 10,000 crimes. We can imagine how difficult it is for a court to go through a maze of different legal changes, different laws, which are often at odds with each other, and how difficult every judicial decision is for this reason. At the normative level, the first step towards more efficient insolvency procedures and greater possibilities for corporate deleveraging in this year has already been taken by implementing the amendment of the CFPIPP. The second step, which shows that the legislator, the ministry and the judiciary are still on track, is that a joint commitment has been signed with the judiciary, where certain obligations, promises and commitments have been made to citizens and citizens. We will all keep a close eye on whether these commitments are being implemented, implemented. The third step followed when the National Assembly adopted the first phase of amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. Recent novels have transformed and further strengthened the supervisory mechanisms over the work of the judge and the courts. The responsibilities of the Presidents of the Courts have also increased, which were also the main objectives of the two novels. At this point, we can see that we have a normative force in the matter in order, we insist only that it is carried out and, as is the intention of the proposer, that it be carried out in a consistent manner, at the responsibility of the bankruptcy managers, at the responsibility of the judges. At this point, we can find that, given the course of judicial proceedings, that we have convictions in matters involving important economic operators, tycoons, that we have matters that are brought before the court by doctors, politicians, as well as judges, as I will explain later, in the Republic of Slovenia, the rule of law still works that we are all equal before this legal state, and the rule of law will be able to find all those who do not respect the law and who do something wrong, which is subject to prosecution, not only to prosecution, but also liability for damages. In the Penal Code, we also have an article — a criminal offence called an unlawful, biased and unfair trial in article 288, which states that a judge who is knowingly violating the law or distorting the right to harm or unjustifiably give an advantage to a party in a proceeding shall be punished by imprisonment for up to three years. Similarly, a judge shall be punished, with a view to bringing the judgment referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article into effect on facts which he knows do not exist or are falsely fomented with false and unlawful evidence. Let's not say it's a dead letter on paper, that it's a toothless tiger, and that it's not being done, let me just give you some statistics. In 2009, 21 criminal charges were filed for 21 counts of criminal services. In 2010 38 criminal complaints, in 2011 83 and in 2012 49. This shows that judges in this country are not inviolable, that criminal proceedings are also being conducted against them, criminal charges are being brought, and in a million and a half cases that are obviously not resolved correctly, our citizens and citizens are so aware that criminal charges are also being filed and that the police are so qualified to process these criminal charges. What is the seizure of these criminal charges? It's already on the indictments. This is an act of the prosecution, which makes an assessment of how much this crime is, the suspicion of a criminal offence is justified. In 2010, we have two indictments or indictments, in 2011 there are 9 and in 2012 there are 23. 23 reasonable suspicions of criminal service, which is a test on the prosecution and is ripe for trial in a court of law. If we are going to legal judgments, we can find that in 2010 one judge was found guilty of an illegal, biased and unfair trial, in 2011 as well as in 2012 three judges who were also given a security measure in three cases. As we say, when we talk about responsibility when we talk about the functioning of the rule of law, about the normative regulation of this area, we can see that this is a fairly good moment. We wish we'd never been satisfied. We must always strive to make this arrangement ever better, but we warn that we are going to do so with thoughtfulness, in a mild way. Justice is only a third branch of power, an independent branch of power – and to whom should the rule of law rely, if not a good functioning of the third branch of power, of justice? Once again, we want this to be a sign that justice and our awareness of the consistent exercise of criminal and compensation responsibility at all levels will also be given to domestic rights in Slovenia, and we can optimistically see that this is the case. The following year, when we hope to re-examine the situation in the judiciary and when we get the results showing how the signed commitment of justice is implemented, we can, hopefully, find that the results are significantly better than they were back in 2009, 2010 and so on. As it is said, in 2011, we can see that some breakthrough has been achieved in this area, and we can look forward to the future when we are even more demanding in this area and in these bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the representative of the Ministry or Government, I welcome you! The problems we have today on the agenda and our discussions so far show that we are coming from our own country, as if we do not know what is going on in our home. The problem that we are dealing with today is only one of the symptoms of chronically painful Slovenian justice, which we are not able to cure in any way, if I may say so. What other symptoms do we ask ourselves about the chronic illness of our justice? It is difficult to list everything, and the main ones are certainly payment indiscipline, failure to prosecute economic crime, lengthy judicial proceedings, procedural complications, corruption, low trust in the rule of law, feelings of two legal states, one for elites and one for a small man, and now the so-called affair Friends in bankruptcy, which are the reasons for the disease in justice. In the Slovenian People's Party, since the Bulmastif affair, we continue to point out the alarming situation in our judiciary and the apparent presence of elites who do not choose the means to maintain their influence and protect their interests. In the last year, many discussions were aimed at finding the reasons for the problems in Slovenian justice, but we did not come any further than the declaration statements and the media blizzards. Many debates revolve around the problem that almost no one believes in the justice and justice of our society anymore, so it is not surprising that the constitutionally commanded equality before the law remains only an unattainable ideal. When we look for answers to these questions, we are always told that politics must not get involved in an independent judiciary, that we have no right to define one way or another, nor should we think about the justice system, which includes the problem of resolving insolvency proceedings. However, the role of Members and Parliament includes a supervisory function, and in particular concern for those who bear the consequences of a poor system — taxpayers and all those who find themselves in a judicial mill or remain unemployed because of the bankruptcy or bankruptcy of businesses. The undeniable fact is that Slovenian bankruptcy legislation is extremely difficult, making bankruptcy proceedings unusually long for us. In addition, they usually only start when there is not much value left of the company in insolvency proceedings. Usually, ordinary creditors, workers, subcontractors who usually only get bits falling from the bankruptcy tables or not are drawn to the shortest possible draw. It is unacceptable that so-called failed entrepreneurs can exploit a number of legal loopholes, such as the Land Debt Institute, through which they redirect financial assets outside the company. Therefore, they are richer than ever and free from any obligation. Workers, creditors and even the country can be wiped under their noses. In recent years, we have heard many stories when bankruptcy managers sell company assets at shamefully low prices, when bankruptcy managers do not know where the company's assets are, when creditors are not allowed to be present when opening offers or when former owners of property are freely available to them and take advantage of them. Can’t all of this really be prevented? In addition, the insolvency administrators had at least until the entry into force of the new Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination in those proceedings had an excessive autonomy of decision-making compared to creditors' rights. If we add to this the above mentioned ranges of bankruptcy managers with so-called bankruptcy judges, which are the reason for today's extraordinary meeting, it is crystal clear that the situation is far from ideal. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, at the time of the adoption of the new Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures, we said that we supported such decisions that would enable efficient and, in particular, faster and cheaper insolvency proceedings. In the proceedings, the main word should be that of creditors who, in the interest of maintaining the company's healthy core, pay their debts and keep their jobs. While the creditors were given the authority to replace the bankruptcy manager in the event of his poor work, this would improve the quality and control of the work of the creditor and the manager. Is that true? According to the proposed extraordinary meeting, the supervision of bankruptcy managers is also apparently insufficient under the new legislation. While it is difficult to provide a complete assessment of the appropriateness of control without a specific analysis, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it can be concluded that certain systemic shortcomings still exist. An affair of Friends in bankruptcy, which revealed friendly and even related connections between insolvency administrators and judges, began a good year ago. In public, photographs of private parties were rounded up, where some bankruptcy managers and judges took part in bankruptcy proceedings in the courts together. The affair continued with an anonymity which revealed a system of awarding bankruptcys in the way that it was precisely because of these links that higher-value bankruptcys were always allocated to the same managers. In addition, the fact that bankruptcy procedures in Slovenia are to be managed by only three groups of bankruptcy managers has also been made public. Where were the competent supervisory institutions not responding? What were the law enforcement authorities doing not to verify the facts? Lately, all of us stop blinding each other and do not sit around explaining to those involved that it is just an accident or a coincidence. We're not talking about the lions here today, we're talking about the right ones, we're talking about the facts. We're all here to help change things in this country. In addition, the fact that the competent disciplinary commission at the Slovenian Board of Governors has already released all the managers involved from the obvious irregularities will be a matter of fact. Moreover, the president of the Chamber confirmed the merger when she stated that private friendship between bankruptcy managers and judges was supposed to be completely normal — without any conflict of interest. Unfortunately, the same is true in the judicial branch, as all the responsibilities of the judges involved have been met. In the process of identifying professional and ethical responsibility, there were no minor irregularities. Also by the tops of the Slovenian judiciary, responses to the whole event were quite slow. All three branches of government, legislative, executive and judicial, are responsible for the rule of law. The competent minister or government must quickly and finally enter into joint commitments for concrete action. By punishing those responsible and by better control, which will prevent new irregularities, a first step will be taken towards regaining confidence in the rule of law. We all bear the responsibility of taxpayers to the unemployed, as a result of irresponsible treatment of the deterioration of good companies. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of this responsibility and are ready to act, so we support today's debate and recommendations in the hope that they will finally act against such harmful ties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group on the parent committee, we did not support the proposed recommendations and amendments tabled by the proposers concerning the issue of control and accountability under the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. We note that the recommendations referred to or proposed by the proposer do not fall within the competence of the National Assembly, since the National Assembly is not the authority for the supervision of the judiciary. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that in this area, in resolving procedures and also in providing assurances to the competent minister, the results are already visible, for which the competent authorities will continue to accelerate their efforts to reach the average of the deadlines of the Member States of the European Union. We are convinced that insolvent legislation and in general Slovenian legal order have sufficient provisions that carefully regulate resolution procedures, system, control, sanctions, etc. The foundations of legislation are in place. It is true that we want more rapid and final epilogues, and we expect that there will also be visible progress and effect in terms of the order of payments for an even more efficient and fair legal framework in the area of insolvency proceedings, in particular the award of bankruptcy managers. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that respect for judicial ethics – respect for the independent, professional and independent work of the courts – is also essential at the level of the judiciary. We agree that it is crucial now to upgrade a stable judicial system into a transparent and even more credible judicial system. With great approval, we will adopt amendments to the law prepared by the Ministry of Justice, which will signal better, faster, more advanced, more efficient, fairer and comprehensive, not partial systematisation. In the DeSUS Group, we have already followed the opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service at the meeting of the working body and, as I said in the introduction, as a representative of the DeSUS Group of Members of the proposed recommendations and amendments, I have not supported. Since the latter have not been accepted, today we will only discuss this issue in this Chamber, but we cannot adopt opinions or conclusions. Nevertheless, we expect a constructive debate which will result in better insolvency legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u24	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! We have discussed the state of the judiciary in Slovenia many times in this Chamber and behind these benches. Every time we talk about a variety of court proceedings against economic societies, this debate always revolves around two words: too slow and ineffective. In the current crisis, the Slovenian judiciary adds an important part to the destruction of Slovenian companies. We are reminded of this by many entrepreneurs when we walk in Slovenia with our parliamentary group and meet with them. One of the main comments of entrepreneurs is that the current regime protects criminals and fraud more than honest and working entrepreneurs. I'm sorry. Although the Supreme Court in its statistics has shown a shortening of the average time to resolve cases in economic disputes for several years, it is unfortunately not felt in the field. In the parliamentary offices, like most likely you, we are visited by a number of entrepreneurs, who are also crying many times with tears in their eyes and asking that this house do something to finally get the money they deserve, as the disputes are drawing unheard of for a long time. As has been said many times today, the right that comes too late is virtually not justice, but merely a new injustice. This and similar things should simply not happen in a democratic and civilized Slovenia. That is why this Parliament, including this House as one of the branches of government, should demand that other branches of government — the judicial branch of power — assume their share of responsibility in such matters. In particular, more responsibility should be taken over by the judges who run the procedures that go on indefinitely and by the Presidents of the courts. The European Commission also reminds us of the fact that civil and economic disputes are judicial proceedings, in particular insolvency proceedings, too long. In the May 2013 report, the European Commission specifically highlights the need for a significant improvement in the productivity of judges, or if I say so at home, the European Commission warns us and tells us that our judges are unfortunately ineffective. It therefore recommends that we continue our efforts to shorten these procedures. If we do nothing in this light, then Slovenia will be less interested in foreign investment every day if it is interesting for anyone else today. When we are in the midst of a difficult economic crisis today, the effective functioning of the rule of law, courts and other supervisory institutions is that key mechanism and a key basis for economic development, for new investments and also for a better economic environment. In New Slovenia we are therefore convinced that there will be no new economic growth until we have settled the area of justice. As a basis for the better functioning of the judiciary, we can also consider the new amendment to the Law on Courts adopted this year, but it is now on the side of the judicial system that this law is consistently implementing. You know, a good marriage like that doesn't help us if it's not being implemented. The judicial branch of power is independent, independent, and sometimes it does not like to hear any critics from the legislative branch of power. I can understand them in this matter, but by doing so they impose an even greater responsibility on themselves to clean up the mess that has accumulated in their system over the past 20 years. Unfortunately, there is no better judicial system than their own self-cleaning. I would like to highlight the following. The European Commission also recommended that we improve the legal framework for the out-of-court restructuring of over-indebted enterprises, which will comply with applicable insolvency law. We were told to do this until September, until last month. But as in many other areas, unfortunately, we are also late here. The Minister explained today in his opening speech on the home work body that he would be preparing an appropriate amendment to the Financial Business Act regarding the systemic indebtedness of enterprises by the end of this year. The question is why this legislation was not prepared and also adopted within the time limit recommended by the European Commission. Was the deadline set by the European Commission really so unrealistic that it could not be respected? No, at least that's how we evaluate it in Novi Slovenije. As with every other thing, there is more or less all will in improving the judicial system. If he wants to, there's a lot of things he can do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u25	Thank you. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u26	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State and colleague! In listening to previous speakers representing the views of their parliamentary groups, one might think that we have again one of the many general debates on the issue of the state of justice in this house. However, the title of the request of the applicants for this extraordinary meeting is different, much narrower and should refer to insolvency proceedings and to certain actions and actions of bankruptcy debtors and others in the past. Therefore, let the position of Positive Slovenia be on the subject of today's extraordinary meeting. In Positive Slovenia, we are also aware of the problems of long economic disputes in our country, as well as the problems of insolvency proceedings, not only in the work relating to the awards of bankruptcy managers, but also to the problems related to the duration of these proceedings and the many frauds that occur in these processes. But like other things in this matter, Positive Slovenia, whose Members and Members we have only been in this Parliament for a good year and a half, and who only run the government for half a year, cannot and does not want to take responsibility for all the mistakes that have been made in the past and for all the bad legislation that some of you have contributed to. We don't want that responsibility, and we don't want to take it. On the other hand, when reading this requirement, a person cannot avoid the feeling that the applicant, a party to the SDS, has simply withdrawn from the drawer one of his previous demands and is resuscitating his old wounds and insults. Half the request concerns criticism of the work of Minister Aleš Zalar, who, as far as we know in Positive Slovenia, has no government as far as two mandates are concerned. What is the value of discussing the mistakes of former ministers, and these are the ministers of the parties who do not even have a seat in this House, a particular issue. On the other hand, in our party we are aware that discussions on current issues are necessary and necessary. However, we find it unnecessary and unproductive to have day-to-day recurring debates at urgent and extraordinary meetings, even if these are discussions about the actions of individuals who are not currently present and who cannot defend themselves and say anything in their defence. As I have been convinced many times before, we are confident that we will also be witnessing today personal discredits, undermining the authority of the judiciary, critics of the judiciary, commenting on open criminal and other proceedings, and making numerous judgments on the guilt of individuals. In Positive Slovenia, we do not approve of this type of work, and we believe that it is necessary to stop looking into the past. It is necessary to look to the future and to find concrete solutions to specific problems. Thus, this government, which, as it is said, has only been working for six months, has already adopted a new law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination in June, in which it has addressed a number of problems that the applicants are alerting to in their request. Let me make it clear that the novel I am talking about and the key solutions I will repeat are adopted in the National Assembly 15. 6. 2013 In order to inform individuals and individuals of the new legal rules and to adapt their conduct and to adapt the operations of the national authorities, its provisions provided for a reasonable long transitional period after which the rules on new or amended legal institutes should apply only from 15. 8. 2013 Less than a month after that, the drafter, the SDS Group, has already tabled a request for this extraordinary meeting, adding several criticisms of the new legislation which has barely entered into force on the old basis of his objection to Minister Aleš Zalar. Anyone who knows at least a little about the functioning of the judicial system and the justice system in general needs to know that this system takes time to move it. These are large and rigid systems that take time to respond to changes. Thus, some positive changes in the past, exactly in the mandate, say, Minister Zalar, are only showing up now. We are convinced that some recent convictions, convictions of known tycoons and other people who have come against the law, are the result of the work of special, specialised groups both in the prosecutions and in the courts. But it's been years since then. The situation is similar to that of ZFPPIPP, in the novel I mentioned earlier, because it is also not possible to expect results in less than one month. Nevertheless, the adopted amendment has brought about substantial changes in the area of strengthening supervision of the work of insolvency managers and tightening the conditions for both acquisition and withdrawal of the authorisation to act as manager. As one of the key objectives of the novel is to ensure effective supervision of the work of the director by the Ministry of Justice and to strengthen the position of managers to suspend the appointment of managers in new cases. The qualifications in the field of lawyers, namely, who may be a lawyer or a bankruptcy manager, have also been sharpened. There was a provision in force whereby a manager in the position of a lawyer should not represent as a lawyer a bankruptcy debtor in judicial or other proceedings conducted in connection with the bankruptcy procedure in which he was appointed as a manager. In such proceedings, the name of a lawyer shall not be used. In this regard, the Ministry was also given the power to provide that, in the event that it is found that the lawyer appointed as the administrator, at the same time the same bankruptcy debtor as the lawyer is represented in judicial or other proceedings conducted in connection with this bankruptcy procedure, such a lawyer may be deprived of the right to exercise his office. Furthermore, in addition to the numerous other provisions of the novel on the review of insolvency debtor documentation, the conditions for issuing and withdrawing licences, the temporary suspension of appointment of managers in new cases, the change in the composition of disciplinary bodies and the strengthening of cooperation between courts and ministries, the same amendment also provided more effective supervision of the work of managers by the Minister and the exacerbation of the position of managers to suspend appointment of managers in new cases – one set of institutes to improve the right of affairs and areas on which your request is addressed. In addition, this amendment introduced an additional possibility to shorten insolvency proceedings, namely a discretionary right of the court to make the parties and the administrator, in insolvency proceedings, necessarily refer to mediation where it considers that, in the light of the circumstances of the case, it is appropriate to resolve the disputed issue or the interest dispute. Rapid procedures also provide a quick solution to the dispute and less room for malversion. Let me say here that in Positive Slovenia we strongly regret that the judiciary does not use these procedures more often, because statistics show that the average economic mediation process ends within three months, in more than 50% success. Savings in time and money are huge. In addition, the amendment allowed the creditor committee to exercise control over the work of the manager, as it can be resolved in a new way if, according to their assessment, the manager no longer enjoys the trustworthiness of the creditors. I hope that this listing has confirmed my thesis that the problems that have arisen and have been addressed for years and years. Again, the question arises why only our government has saved them after so long and why this has not been done before, perhaps even in the last year when you led the government. In addition to the novelty of this insolvency law, not to mention the entire long name, a new Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service was adopted in June, which also represents an important step towards better and more effective supervision of the work of the courts, giving the Supreme Court more powers to monitor, assess and analyse the effectiveness of the judiciary in this area, giving some possibilities for some new sanctions, introducing a supervisory service with the Ministry of Justice. This supervisory service will also be able to monitor the effective, rapid and cost-effective implementation of all judicial proceedings. In cases where irregularities or consequences have been identified for the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of the court or for the regular exercise of judicial authority, the timeliness of proceedings, etc., employees in that service will be able to make referrals and also make calls for the discharge of the President of the court, which is likely to be a rather harsh sanction. Let me conclude by saying that, in view of everything that is said in Positive Slovenia, we have not been able to support the recommendations and we would like the energy that we will use for today's debate to focus on regulating other areas that are open and where changes are needed, and that, as the National Assembly, we work seriously and responsibly in areas that we are responsible for, rather than constantly interfering with the powers of other branches of government – in the area of the judicial and executive branches of government – and, if possible, as some Members wish to take over the tasks of detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. Let everyone do what comes to him, what he is responsible for, and what he knows. In this way, our country will make the fastest progress in all areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Masha Kociper. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal for a recommendation. For starters, Dr. Gorenak has the word on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I want to respond to things that have been said and have been said incorrectly, maliciously or even misleadingly. "Let him rest in peace," said Mr Brulc Europe. So far, to this day, I've usually heard this phrase at a funeral. Other things we usually don't hear the phrase "let him rest in peace." I understand that we would want a dead Europe, because then Slovenia would not be part of this Europe, because this Europe would not be, and we could have a system that we already had and that we rejected in 1991 with the war on Slovenia. But Europe will obviously still be, so it will not rest in peace. I have to explain – that's how you went to those awards and got things all wrong. You have accused Minister Zalar, Minister Sturm, that he has determined by regulation that there are no upper bounds to the prizes. Official information is clear. At the time when the upper bounds were not: January 2009 106 thousand, February 2009 81 thousand, March 2009 210 thousand, April 555 thousand, May 475 thousand – all in matters of normality, in conditions where the upper awards were not limited, as you correctly found. When Minister Zalar changed the rules and said that new rules apply to old bankruptcys, the number of prizes jumped to a million and a half a month in 2009 — the second half of the 6th month. When Minister Zalar – he is not here, I agree, but if he has done stupid things, we must mention them today – he stepped in front of the cameras and said that order will do and limit the matter again, see, in 8 days 2009, June, 2 million 300,000 prizes. That was at a time when Minister Zalar restricted, so we'll be more specific. It happened – what? It happened that judges and bankruptcy administrators, according to the scheme of the affair Friends in bankruptcy had already agreed and paid these awards and the workers had not received anything. This needs to be made very clear. Someone now expects specific conduct from the chamber, responsible, etc. Here's your information. In the case of HKS Sicura, the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia did not find any irregularities in the review of Mr Goršet, who is the convicted bankruptcy manager. She even sent her flattering assessment of Gorshet’s fine work to the judicial court in order to carry out his exemption. Fortunately, the judge didn't fall for it. If you're still waiting, then wait, but not only will we lose some more hair. We can probably expect to die, but we can't wait. You have to act, you don't expect it, because otherwise it won't be anything. We can't interfere with the court's decision. I agree. This is where I replicate Mrs. Kociper and everyone else. Our task is not and cannot be to interfere with the decisions of the courts. It's as clear as day. Does anyone interfere with this meeting? Does anyone interfere with the criticism of the court? Does anyone interfere with a court-martial? Does anyone interfere with the meeting before the Ig prison — for example, today’s doctors? No, no, no. I agree that we cannot interfere, but the system of balance between the three branches of government is perfectly clear – it controls each other. We've heard that before. But the way is different, that's clear. If the judicial branch of the authority gives judgment to anyone in this country, to the President of the Government, to the State, to Parliament, to the Member or to the Member, to whom, however, it is enforceable, and we have nothing to say and say that we will not take this into account. But we can disagree. The judiciary must, however, accept Parliament if it reaches the judicial branch in a legally consistent manner. An operation called the operation of the judicial system by the legislative branch of power is necessary for us, but only when 60 Members are prepared for it is absolutely necessary. This is an absolutely necessary matter, and this is what we are talking about and will continue to talk about. Why? Since the judicial system has changed from 1990 to 2013 – 23 years – nothing has changed. [[advertising from the hall]] Let's go out there or you can talk to me, 'cause you remind me of an uncle on TV who's always drooling back there. But look, nothing has changed in the judicial branch of power, absolutely nothing. If you think it will ever be - it won't be on its own. Let's move on. Mr Braniselj spoke about how bankruptcy managers lose their jobs. You can't paint someone in kindergarten. You can't paint me. How many bankruptcy managers are there who are doing their basic job? No one is like that because everyone has another job in order — they are lawyers, they are, they are, they are. Let's say the one who had the Mura bankruptcy is a geography teacher in the Rippers or somewhere in Zasavje. Everyone has a job and no one can lose a job because it's a side activity, more or less. Mr Braniselj wrote down – I don't know why he's doing this, I don't know why he's defending the judiciary, but the minister is criticising him. It would be good for you to sit down together and evaluate together and say that you will at least say the same thing. He talked about how 21 criminal charges were filed for criminal trial, that from 2009 to 2011, 83 criminal charges were filed. Yeah, bravo! How many were convicted? Nothing. I mean, a criminal charge can be filed by anyone, a citizen, etc. How many were convicted? He stated that in 2010, one judgment fell, but he forgot to say that she was exonerated. Slovenia's 2010 Official Report to the European Commission says that Slovenia had one disciplinary procedure between judges and prosecutors. This is the official report we sent to Brussels. The Austrians had 50, the Italians had 175, the Germans had 20, and we had one. We're talking disciplinary procedures and don't paint me with criminal proceedings because they weren't there. If the charges have been filed, this is not yet a criminal procedure. The data needs to be taken a close look. Mrs Porotat, wonderfully, I have heard Mr Žnidaršič's speech again, only the date is another and the woman's voice I hear. You know that's a funny story. That's a funny story right there. DZ is not a control body. What do you teach nonsense, because we all know we're not an authority of control! We are, however, a legislative branch of authority that can reach into court in a constitutionally compatible manner, and we are in favour of that. Respect for the independence of the judiciary. Let's stop these stories for God's sake! Who doesn't respect him? You have to respect him! I've never heard any politics say: I don't admit the judgment of a court and I'm not going to jail. That would be it, not if we criticized the judiciary. Criticizing the judiciary is desirable and is allowed, at least as far as I'm concerned, and I think this knowledge is getting through. Let me tell you the case of the judge who tried Mrs Jelka Rozman, who had a bankruptcy case against HKS Sicura. For her, the judiciary has found that everything is fine, everything is fine, and the lady can progress. Let us look forward to the candidacy for Mr Maslesha's successor, but the creditors, the workers who have nothing left to lose all the assets that have squandered their entire lives and have nothing to do today, are telling me the following. They organized themselves and challenged Judge Jelka Rozman's 16 conclusions. On the way to court, they reached an annulment. This means that she has issued 16 decisions that had no legal basis or made 16 mistakes. Of these 16 cases, 6 cases were set by the bankruptcy manager, Mr Goršet, who is currently in prison, who has set too high a monetary prize. Now the judicial branch of power says: no, the judge is O. K., it can progress. What do the creditors who tell me that think, but you can think. Until the judicial branch of power is capable of self-reflection and self-cleaning, it will be no different. "Insolvency legislation is good," says Mrs Porotat, "but we have not supported the conclusions" – those conclusions that we have proposed. If insolvency law were good, then we wouldn't get so many recommendations from Brussels that we have to change the situation. Mrs Porotat, you are probably listening to me – what conclusions of the court are yet to be seen, not only the 2009 speech of Žnidaršič. This would be very useful before the coming. However, you did not support the conclusions we proposed in the SDS Group. Look what we suggested. One of the conclusions was this: The National Assembly notes that the procedures for the supervision of managers and judges under the Financial Operations Act, insolvency and forced termination proceedings and the Judicial Service Act are poorly regulated and do not allow for transparency of proceedings. You're against it, Mrs. Popot, aren't you? You are defending the work of a judge who lost 16 decisions, who was wrong 6 times in determining the award, and you are obviously also defending a chamber which wrote a tract of beauty on Mr. Goršet, which the court sent to prison for the same matter. All right, let the electorate judge what you're defending and what you're not defending. Let's keep looking. Mrs Kociper – she's gone again, I'm lucky everyone escapes the hall when they have to face some truth. There's only one other lady I can see who can pick up. Mrs. Kociper says we can't take responsibility for this. I agree with that, and also everyone who sees you here from the New Slovenia Group probably not, since you were not in the National Assembly before that. That's right. But there are many of you that I saw in 2004 in the mighty LDS who said: we are saving the country and we cannot take responsibility for it. Then this collapse broke down, and here in the middle I watched the reals and the LDS, who were repeating the same story: we're new, but we're really, and we can't take responsibility for it back. In fact, they were a branch of those before, LDS. Now you're saying the same thing. If I run again, and I hope not, then I'll meet someone here again who'll be called the Green Straw and he'll say he can't take responsibility for it when this story falls apart. You know, that's how it is. "The judiciary system needs time to make a change," says Mrs Kociper. I agree with that. But time's up. "Fertic," I'd say. For a fundamental reason, 23 years of adapting to the emerging situation, as Europe sees, as we see. There's no adjustment. It was said, "A session on old stories." Ladies and gentlemen, it's not true! This session is due to a case called Friends in bankruptcy because the judicial branch of the authorities has not found any irregularities because the bankruptcy administrators have found no irregularities. That's one reason. The judicial branch of power is not capable of self-cleaning. The citizens will pay 16,000 euros in compensation to Mrs However, the judicial branch of power, and the judges said: we are not guilty of anything. Prosecutors: no, our Mr. Furlan can make progress, we are not guilty of anything. Who, then, is responsible for the EUR 16,000 compensation?Oh, my God! Who?Oh, my God! Probably St. Peter, or who? I don't know who else to blame. Don't talk about it going back now and I don't know what it's all about. To end this first part of my performance, I'm going to repeat some things, because I have to, it's no different. There is no responsibility in Slovenia in the field of judiciary. She's just gone! That's what you need to know. In some other countries, this situation is significantly different. In particular, in Germany and Italy, the judges are responsible for their decisions in such a way that citizens can sue them, pay compensation to the State and ask the judge to do so. We've never had a case like this before. He hasn't been here yet. If anyone knows him, say it. But there was no such case. Slovenian taxpayers pay around €89 for the judicial system at annual level, the average of Europe is 42, many countries under 25. Then what's wrong? Slovenians have far the most judges per 100,000 inhabitants who do far the least. This also applies to prosecutors. Then it will be difficult to convince me that no intervention is necessary, and this constitutional intervention, in justice, because they will not themselves be cleansed. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Aljoša Jerič, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Ludmila Novak and Branko Ficka, is the first speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Problems and affairs related to bankruptcy managers have been emerging for some time. This has also been the case in these years with a number of amendments to the laws governing this area. But significant positive changes were introduced in May this year, when this particular topic of the bankruptcy management affair was given a lot of attention. We have taken a decisive step in strengthening the supervision of managers and the conditions for obtaining or withdrawing authorisation to act as administrator. The novelty thus enables effective control of the work of managers with the possibility of rapid action, by measures which are proportionate to the gravity of the infringement and which are comparable to the supervision of the work of other persons who are also considered to be worthy of public confidence in the performance of their duties. The amendment, for example, lays down, on the one hand, the competence of the Board of Auditors to require, by votes of all its members without justification, creditors to vote on the discharge of the appointed Administrator if the manager no longer enjoys their trust and the simultaneous vote on the appointment of any specific new manager. So far, no creditors have had that option. In order to ensure effective supervision of the work of managers by the Ministry responsible for justice, an amendment was introduced with regard to the conduct of the review of the insolvency proceedings. This can also be followed up by new judges who are assigned to the Ministry of Justice and who have experience in insolvency, economic disputes or enforcement proceedings. The Minister may even appoint an auditor for review. An additional obligation has been laid down for the President of the Chamber of Governors to inform the Minister responsible for Justice of the introduction of disciplinary proceedings against the administrator. Furthermore, the amendment provides that a manager who has the position of lawyer shall not as a lawyer represent a debtor of bankruptcy in judicial or other proceedings conducted in connection with the bankruptcy procedure in which he has been appointed as a manager and shall not use the title of lawyer. This has not been limited until now either. The Minister of Justice has also been given the power to provide that, in the event that it is found that the lawyer appointed as the administrator, at the same time the same insolvency lawyer as the lawyer is represented in judicial or other proceedings conducted in connection with this insolvency proceedings, such lawyer shall be deprived of the authorisation to act as the manager. In such cases there is a severe conflict of interest, and in many cases there is also the abuse of such a person on the one hand and the exhaustion of the bankruptcy debtor on the other hand, and the consequences of such acts are usually suffered by creditors who, due to the depletion of the bankruptcy mass, are left without payment. The only fair sanction in such cases is the withdrawal of the authorisation to act as manager. There are a number of important provisions in the Law Amendment relating to the matters for which you have convened today's meeting. The proposer of today's session with his dialectic constantly causes and increases the lack of confidence of citizens in the judicial system. There has also been a positive movement in this area during this government. In order to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law, an undertaking was signed on 4 June to improve the situation in the judiciary. The undertaking was signed on behalf of the Court of Justice by the President of the Supreme Court, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Justice. The basic objective of the undertaking is to reduce the duration of the proceedings. By June 2014, the average resolution of cases before all courts would have been less than one year, and in some cases and in some courts only three months. The objectives are set for each type of court and case separately and objectively measurable. Thus, the public will be able to easily verify that the judicial and executive branch of the authorities hold to their word. Let me mention that measures to achieve the deficit reduction objective also provide for the extension of the Triaž project to all district courts throughout the country. Today, we were able to hear from the mother's working body that the Triaž project is going very well. That's what the Supreme Court representative told us. I will add this to you because the report did not mention it. Finally, I would like to conclude and point out that all state authorities must bear their part of the responsibility, both for the National Assembly and for the government, and certainly for the judiciary alone, as an equivalent branch of power. Sectoral legislation has already enabled a number of levers to strengthen the responsibility of both the Judges and the Presidents of the Courts. Only their implementation was necessary, where the ratio to the remaining branches of government did not reach. The non-executive and non-legislative authorities shall not, and shall not, exercise the powers reserved by the judicial branches. In view of all of the above, taking into account the further changes envisaged in insolvency proceedings with the aim of ensuring conditions for more effective financial restructuring of the systemically important companies and the rationalisation of the conduct of insolvency proceedings, and the most recently adopted amendments to the judiciary legislation which will further strengthen the supervisory mechanisms in the Court of Justice, I believe that today's convened meeting is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerich. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In today’s debate sparked by the “Friends in bankruptcy” affair, it is important to ask whether the matter is really done in an appropriate manner. When this affair broke out, it appeared that bankruptcy judges and bankruptcy administrators were conversing, giving each other gifts, and I don't know what was in conflict with the rules of the judiciary, that a relative, a friend or anyone should be excluded from the case he was dealing with. When this erupted, the President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Petrič, said that this was unacceptable behaviour. Although there is no case law with us, I think that, at least in these opinions, the opinion of the President of the highest court that has certainly considered this, including the members of the Constitutional Court, could be considered to be something, even for the various personal councils in the courts. But it's obviously different with us. Colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I am moved by your belief that everything is in the best order in the courts and in our judiciary that everything is ideal in the area of bankruptcy law and bankruptcy. If I translate your views today, you literally enjoy it when the workers have lost their jobs, when we look at the scenes of these depraved workers and also the owners. After today's debates, you seem to be enjoying what has happened to them and that the bankruptcy managers have earned prizes up to the millions of sums that have happened, which has also been shown here. I kind of understand. Among the bankruptcy administrators in deplorable cases are names that are also the names of prominent political figures on the left — Marines, Toshi, a variety of people. It is certain that you must owe and gladly support the injustice of those who have been robbed in bankruptcy proceedings, especially workers — labour exhaustion, labour sucking, employee mockery — which are long-lasting bankruptcy procedures with extremely incomprehensible awards for bankruptcy managers. I am pleased to hear you say this to the Slovenian people and to ensure today that everything is resolved in a proper manner. I am sorry that, at this point, there is no Minister coming from a party created by the public performances of certain intellectuals who have said that there is much to be reset in our society. They didn't say it was necessary to reset the trial, but they said that there was a lot to change and fix. In many talks, the coordination we had with the minister when he was a member of the advanced government of modern parties, it seemed that the Minister acted in the style of what he had predicted and was announced in some of the party's programming points. I generally agreed with this, but today I am sorry that this energy has given way, that it is no longer present, that it must somehow justify the current situation and the current stalemate. I would like to ask him, if he were here, what kind of pressure did the Minister of this coalition have to give in and kneel before he could fully predict what he was predicting? For when you are so excited about the state of justice, I am interested or must say that I have not heard of any case, that the courts will declare that they have set up and carried out a case of confiscation of property in accordance with the law of confiscation of property of illegal origin. Not one more case! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, although we know today just before the European Union's stress tests, and even now all left-wings are predicting that the bank hole will be even bigger, as a result of the illegal looting of our banks. There should be a few billion seizures if the judiciary and the state were to act, as all of this went wrong to the devil or to the pockets dedicated. They don't do that. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you pleased with this? Because we don't only have friends in bankruptcy, but in this country we also have friends in bankruptcy in a country that enjoys and treats bankrupt countries and state robberies and high treason, because what happened in our banks is treason in this country. Precisely by definition: whoever puts the state in a position where it depends on other countries has carried out an act of treason. Let's be clear, we have traitors who have betrayed the country, and I am, once again, going to be ironic, moved over your position, that everything is going in the best order, that there are improvements everywhere and that the situation is absolutely fantastic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. We all agree that we do have problems with the judiciary and that we have problems with bankruptcy proceedings. Most also found that these procedures were too long, dear, ineffective to have a negative impact on the economy. We know that creditors are usually paid very late or only low or never. We all know that this has a negative impact on the economy, so that a healthy part of the company that could continue to operate if the bankruptcy process was properly completed quickly cannot continue – it is also failing. On the other hand, a number of companies or creditors who wait for their money for nothing and then fall as dominoes. All of this contributes to a poor economic situation. All of this means fewer jobs, more unemployed, fewer social states and less paid taxes or new taxes for all citizens. Whose responsibility is this? I think there's been some sort of fundamental misunderstanding today. The majority of the opposition did not criticize the minister, did not criticize the government, but criticised the state in court. If we all claim together that the judiciary is independent, then I wonder why the coalition is defending it so much, but if we all know that there's so much wrong. I hope that what Minister Plitčanič said will be true – that the situation is improving. That's what we all want. I think we should scream today in one voice that we want improvements. If the street is shouting at all of us that we're all thieves together, we probably all disagree, but we agree that the thieves should go to jail. If that is what we want, then we must make recommendations, but we must say that this judiciary should work better. We are adopting legislation, even finding that legislation is good, that we have improved it, but it is not being implemented. Here is our task to call on those who must carry it out to do so. Today we have also heard praise at the expense of mediation in economic disputes. True, the number of these mediations is expected to be successful, but unfortunately there are no fewer disputes in court. As this figure increases significantly, we will say that these mediations are successful, as this also results in more disputes being resolved. This is also the case in the courts, either in the organization or in the case of underperformance. I will not say that all the judges are guilty, for in no profession are all bad and not all good. Some are also average and are good and are bad, but obviously something is wrong, and our call must apply that, if there is a lack of legislation, it is our duty to improve it if there is a lack of implementation, and this is the duty of the judiciary, which exercises and controls legislation. Control – the new legislation also strengthens the responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts, and I hope that they will take this responsibility into their own hands and require their workers to work well and effectively. When we hear about these friends in bankruptcy, I'm worried about something. What worries me is that it would not be a rule or a saying that crows don't turn off their eyes. When we listened to the information provided by Mr Braniselj, I also listened with interest to the fact that the number of complaints was increasing. When he cited the number of convictions completed, these are very modest: 2009 - 1, 2011 - 1 and 2012 - 3. I hope our judges are fair and just and that the charges were unfounded. However, according to many reports, I am not so sure about this. The interests of all of us should be that this judiciary is better, because our country will work better, and we all know that there is a lot wrong. Since Mr Brulc has returned, I would like to say something about Europe. It is true that 100 years ago, Kosovo wrote that Europe is an old, tired lady, a golden queen who is dying. But she hasn't died yet. The European Union lives. And when I visit different companies, economists do not forget to say that the accounts in Europe pay regularly and that Europe gives Slovenia and Slovenia a lot of oxygen that they lack at home. Perhaps I could tell Mr Brulco or remind him that when he waves with the symbols of the truly dead countries, I hope he reminds his friends to leave this country to rest in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Now there's none of the authorities here. The Ministry has a minister, has a secretary of state. Mr Vidmar, I think he's the director of the Directorate or the secretary of state, I don't know. Director of the Directorate, yes. She's not competent here. But it would be nice if they were competent here. I have to warn you. I'm not going to make any procedural proposals to interrupt the session, to have them come here, because I know you can't follow it, Madam Vice-President. However, I will say: given that even Mr Braniselj does not show up here with his famous figures on how many criminal charges have been filed against judges, given that I have listed here the information that Slovenia has officially reported to the European Union, and this information is one disciplinary procedure between all judges and prosecutors for 2010. He gave a whole series of other data. I would like to ask that the Minister, the Secretary of State and Mr Vidmar define themselves for this information, which would nevertheless be good. I speak one, he speaks another, the public is confused. I know what I'm saying, but I know that these are data from the European Union. I warned him why they were wrong, but it would be appropriate for the minister to be defined, and please, if you tell him - or the secretary of state. So much for now. Thank you. Maybe that's it. I've heard another fairy tale for a good night about the futility of this session. Once again, those who say that this meeting is unnecessary answer me the question: why in particular? Let's be concrete! Why is Mrs. Jelka Rozman not guilty of anything? The court system said that everything was fine, but we see her at parties with bankruptcy managers, and we see that the creditors of 16 of her decisions have been annulled, cancelled. Six times she was wrong about the amount of the cash prize, as if she couldn't count to 100,000, which is the VAT ceiling. She's wrong six times, and now everything's fine. If you think it's okay – I don't think it's right. If you think the meeting is not necessary – I think the meeting is necessary, too, I will repeat it again because the Chamber of Fusion Managers finds nothing. He even says that this kind of friendship is desirable. Who of the Members hopes to go to the Maximarket for coffee, accept someone there, say a representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, when we consider such a law, which will imply that there is something wrong with the law and it would be good to give an amendment and not report it to the PKK. You have to report this to the KPK, even if it calls you on the phone – this is what the law says. We don't hope to go, let's face it, or we're reporting KPK. What about judges and bankruptcy managers? They can have a party, they can exchange gifts, prizes – we can see this in public – and the judiciary finds that they are not guilty of anything. So the bankruptcy managers say it's okay to hang out. Think about what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Dr. Gorenak. The director of the department can't answer. The other government representatives are not here. I hope you get an answer if they come. [[advertising from the hall]] You can't replicate because you haven't discussed it yet, Mr. Brulc. Presentation of the position of the delegation shall not be considered as a debate, either [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You can't replicate because you haven't discussed it yet. These are the business arrangements. Now it's Mr. Branko Ficko's turn. The following three panellists will be: mag. Majda Potrat, Tomaž Lisec and only Bevk. Here you go, Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Today's topic: awards to bankruptcy managers, big profits in the past, after 2008, 2009, in insolvency proceedings, and in the case of an affair Friends in bankruptcy. There has been a lot of talk about this, and I could agree with a lot of it. However, I am more concerned than the reward that the procedures in the past have been too long, failed. Insolvency companies did not maintain healthy cores and jobs. If the results were reversed, the rewards wouldn't bother me so much. Everything depends on the results themselves. Also, the case of the local Pomurke in Murska Sobota, where the bankruptcy started in 2009 and until now is not over, along with the Gorski Mipa, therefore means that it will never come to life again – permanent loss of jobs, trademarks, etc. The question is, what does the proposer want to achieve with this in return? He had an opportunity to do so in the past. He was there all the time, both in the legislative and executive spheres. In the end, even their minister laid down the rules on awards. In particular, they were associated with the causes of insolvency proceedings, as the increase in insolvency proceedings started after 2008 because operating in the economic sphere in the period 2005-2008 has had an impact on the sole lending account. The companies had no equity and were over-indebted. We also feel these eccentric effects today. Thus, the applicant admits in some way that he has made mistakes in the past, and apparently he would like to pass the blame on others or make a type of pioneer. The main thing is that something is going on, and above all, the justice system needs to be covered. Their leader is in some way calling for help, and others may have to malign the judicial system as instructed. The fact is that with the debate on responsibility, we will not save the speed of insolvency proceedings and not the rewards, but in particular we will not save the healthy cores of the economy. This must be followed by other goals or laws. The amendment is the first to be adopted on insolvency proceedings in May this year, with a focus on speed and deleveraging, and an additional change is coming on corporate systemic debt. Therefore, let us leave history and rather focus on the future, and especially on giving such debates other results. The applicant also claimed that people are unemployed and hungry, faulty bankruptcy managers. It can't hold. It is the fault of those who have proposed or adopted legislation on the basis of which the bankruptcy managers have acted, particularly by allowing enormous lending and corporate indebtedness, and by allowing companies to go bankrupt, with the loss of jobs. During this period, the applicant was present at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Minestra is no steak, Mr. Ficko, and the steak is not minestra – perhaps with you, but not with me. Credits in the period 2004-2008 – Who gave credit? Banks, no government. The government has never given any credit. From the government palace, as far as I can tell, there's never been any call to who needs credit and who doesn't. But they were before 2004, and probably sometime later. The crediting of the economy between 2005 and 2008 has nothing to do with bankruptcy. But if he does, and I allow him to have it, these loans were given by banks and not by the government. Those who speak of 40 billion credits, 20 of them, and I do not know how many billions were given in the period 2004-2008 – say Mr Mencinger. By the way, he predicted that the Slovenians would eat grass at the time of independence and would oppose independence. Another nonsense he predicted, and now he's being honored as if he were Dalai Lama, at least in some media. Excuse me, let's take a look at the exact numbers! Slovenia has been in debt, where governments decide, all governments so far owe about 7 billion – all Drnovskov's governments and Ropes by 2004. According to my memory, the government of Janez Janša increased this debt by one billion to eight billion. Those who sat in front of me were assisted by those who sat in the middle – I am talking about the government of SD and those who sat in the middle, LDS and Really – increased the debt from 8 billion to 18 billion, to say the 17 billion and something. For the last two years, what's happened is what we both know. But 40 billion is the number where your credits for your washing machine and my dryer are included, and everything else is included. Look, your loan and my loan are not up to your government or my government, and don't fool the public. The right thing to do is to say the right numbers. One more thing. You said the law was to blame if there was anything wrong. No, the legislation was just fine! In the event of the Videm Krško award, the bankruptcy manager received 440 000 euros in cash prizes. But the judge was wrong. He's forgotten he's already awarded 140 thousand advances. He's already given 600,000 euros – let's round up the numbers. There's nothing wrong with the law, there's nothing wrong with the minister, there's nothing wrong with the motions, but there's something wrong with the judge. Let's be more objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. The proposer of this extraordinary meeting proposed on October 1st, probably because we have already found that it will be possible to refer to the 1st of October as the deadline by which certain things should be accepted. It is interesting, however, that this proposed or government had been very careless about the Greek report, which was sent to Slovenia in mid-October 2012, and the government of Ivan Janša failed to look at it. In May, the government of Alenka Bratušek took a look and took action. The topic that we are discussing today is named, but an extraordinary meeting, and before that, the committee meeting runs in such a way that it is possible to talk about everything, but what bothers me is the reversal of facts and statements. It was so much that one could not react to everything. One of the worst controversies is that someone at a board meeting praised the judiciary and confessed to the judiciary. Nobody said that, nobody said that. I would also like to say that I admit that I am not thrilled with the situation in justice, but I am also sure that it is not as bad as some are trying to show. This was one of the many statements from which we can understand that even the judicial branch of power can pronounce judgments at a distance and also distinguish between what is good and what is bad. As far as the names are concerned, you will not believe — you will find an interesting last name in the chamber of bankruptcy managers, since it was earlier about this talk. There someone is called Tanko — two people with the name Tanka are in the boardroom, and they could even list it. If we want to banalize things, we can banalize them to the extremes, and this is often the case in the National Assembly. But what's unacceptable and what worries me is that some of the things you've been through, and many times also proven to be manipulated, let's keep showing things as things that are now in force. This story, which Mr. Gorenak, Videm Krško and similar matters are constantly talking about, and what it says about legislation – it speaks as if it is happening now and as if the legislation has not changed in the meantime. On 17 July 2009, a law was passed ordering the Minister to set an upper limit. Now again, I quote the Chief Justice, who, interestingly, Mr Gorenak did not object at the board meeting, he did not replicate, but now that he is not, something is saying about what was happening and how similar or unseemly statements were made. This is what Mr Balažic said: "First of all, it is necessary to know that, formally speaking, the original sin of these high prizes is the rule on the awards of managers, which was published, I think that in October 2008 and signed by Minister Dr. Storm." Indeed, later Mr Balažic said that there was no point in discussing the guilt, because what had happened had happened. But no, Mr Gorenak will probably continue to talk about what happened in 2009. Mr Gorenak also claimed that nothing had changed in court. As far as I know, we now have a change of law or a new law that already carries the letter K. At that time, a lot has changed. Among other things, with the latest amendment to the Law on Courts – the SDS has praised her very much – we have also received a service to oversee court management. That's what happened. Once again, I can't deny everything that's been said because it's too much. But let me tell you one more thing that Mr Balažic has challenged, and Mr Gorenak has not denied: the governors are not appointed by the court to their discretion. This was the case with two laws before, but now it was the legislator's reaction that he prescribed automaticity in the appointment of bankruptcy managers. The manager's name is the computer, not the judge. One more thing about statistics is how we know how to interpret them creatively, because one of the requirements in the recommendations was also that we have to get closer to European Union standards or averages. The average duration of bankruptcy in Slovenia is 2 years. The European Union average is 1.9 years. The cost of bankruptcy is – measured in units – in Slovenia 4, in Europe 10.5. Nobody says it's more than twice as expensive. As to how much property is obtained from bankruptcy proceedings – there are 51.1 in Slovenia and 60.8 in Europe. What did the representative of the Supreme Court say about this? "I don't think this data confirms what you said. Are we happy? We didn't. We want to change a lot of things, but here I think this data puts us somewhere in the European average and nowhere else." For example, just how, when statistics are quoted, do we need to know what they involve? 400 days in the course of civil proceedings in Slovenia – this refers to more demanding, controversial procedures. The average of those who are fairly quick to rescue is 129 days in Austria. But they've compiled non-problems, if I say so, and those that are long-lasting, but in Austria, it lasts from 17 to 20 months. If we now look at where the problem lies – the problem is that Slovenia has reported only on the issues at stake. Therefore, the length of treatment is as I said – 400 days. Do we quote this information at any time? Or when we are talking about about about about 10% of the cases that have been referred to or dismissed, we are sometimes talking about that 10% relates only to about a quarter of the judgments handed down, because these are only those judgments which were related to the complaint. The appeal against the judgment is about one-quarter. I hereby substantiate why I am saying that this is a matter of manipulation, that it is a matter of deceiving, that it is a deliberate breach of trust in the judicial branch of power. Where does the taco dog pray — does anyone else need to be told? That's what sparrows on the roof are sizzling about. Now to what has been said in the beginning as to what the National Assembly can and cannot do. By the way, I have already said that the National Assembly may, on the basis of findings and poor experience, amend legislation, and this is also foretold. But see how the first recommendation of the SDS was rejected: "The National Assembly took note of the cases of the friendly links between insolvency managers and judges and found irregularities in the allocation and appointment of managers, in the conduct of procedures under the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures, and the repeated occurrence of unjustified delay in those proceedings and dispute in the award of awards to managers." First of all, I have said all that was said on the Committee this morning by the representatives of the Supreme Court, and let the person who will read the magnetogram, who will compare the data and what the SDS says, and then ask whether such a recommendation can be supported. It's not possible. I was on the board this morning. I didn't vote. I also discussed, not only did I sit down, but even if I had the right to vote, I would not support these recommendations because it is not possible to say everything that is written here. Because the amendment of the legislation regarding the level of awarding since 2009 has been amended, because not even the appointment of bankruptcy managers is a matter of personal judgment, but rather a set of bankruptcy administrators of the computer, and it might be possible to say that I am not talking about whether or not I would like to find out that these irregularities were, if I wanted to keep all that here, running procedures, then I should look into this documentation. All this from illustrative material composed of a number of media contributions cannot be summed up because it is an interpretation of events. It's a media report. It's not just the documents. However, I believe that some like to interfere very much with the documents and arrange them in terms of the examples, the objectives they have, and the procedures proposed. It's, I say again, manipulation, it's a time delay when the past is interpreted as the present and when these things that need to be corrected are enough for man to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u44	Thank you very much. You mentioned me six or seven times, Mrs. Potts. I don't know if you can even live without me. We'd probably have problems with our lives if we couldn't deal with me. But so that we don't make the documents, that we don't do anything wrong, and that we don't leave Dr. Storm's name wrapped on your side -- you know what to do -- I'm going to say again, I think this is the second time today, the official data on the iPad. January 2009 – this is the period when Smurf's rule, which did not limit the prizes – 106 thousand, February 81 thousand, March 210, April 555 and May 475. Then comes the fabulous date of 17. 6. 2009 By the way, this is where you got all your accuracy wrong. There was no law to limit the prizes. The limits of the prizes shall be determined by the rules and not by law. On this day we adopted another law, namely, you said – I was against, we were against – that for old bankruptcys a new tariff applies. Well, that's when the thing jumped to a million and 134 thousand euros. That's it. It was only later that two hundred, when Minister Zalar limited those amounts. You know, so much for history because of the microphone and so on, due to records and correctness to Mr. Sturm. Maybe just one more thing, but computers don't specify bankruptcy managers. Computers can determine them, show who's in line, but go take a look at Prevent Slovenj Gradec. They skipped two bankruptcy managers, even though the computer showed something else. But, of course, he wasn't home when he had to be on the phone, and he wasn't — but the phone rang once, so that it wouldn't happen five times to pick up the phone. So it was there, so at least I was informed, and that's why someone else was appointed to be the bankruptcy manager. You know, that's what we talked about there. The computer can therefore be drawn up and notified by certain natural persons. Madam Vice President, I think Mrs. Potter has a procedural nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u45	Mrs. Potts has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, since we know that you are rude and that you are enjoying yourselves now, it is also clear. But look, I didn't deny how many high prizes were set. And there was no need to rush, because according to Sturm adopted the rule allowed unlimited amounts of prizes. It is understandable, though, that a few of them rushed when the change was foretold. But the original sin, once again, according to Mr Balažic and also to my conviction, is in the rules of Mr Sturm. I was wrong at the committee meeting and said that the law had been laid down, but now I have rightly said that the law had been imposed on the Minister by a regulation setting the height. Now you can nod for me all you want, but the fact is you'll have to read something, what someone says and try to make statements in context. It's hard for you, but it would be good if we ever tried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, followed by Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Sonja Ramšak, is next to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Or maybe another picture of what was going on at the committee meeting. Representatives of the coalition spoke only about how the judiciary works, perhaps not great, but at least for an evaluation of four. According to them, almost everything is a tiptop, and the opposition's representatives, especially the SDS, have been attacked if we want to involve politics in justice again. However, the representatives of the coalition obviously did not hear the Minister's words that certain matters were open and that changes were being made in the area of justice, particularly where legislation touched the area of the economy, including bankruptcy. The minister himself said that the legislation was not optimal. Representatives of the coalition did not even want to hear recommendations from European institutions, where it says that I will be precise, quote: "The permanent resolution of economic disputes, bankruptcy proceedings in Slovenia must be compared with the permanent resolution of these procedures in the Member States of the European Union." Now we are hearing from coalition representatives that we are even better than the average in the European Union, so our situation in the judiciary, in particular in these bankruptcy proceedings, should obviously be damaged. Interesting thesis. Moreover, neither the fact that the latest data from World Bank "Doing Business 2013" indicate that legal proceedings in Slovenia in the standard economic dispute last as far as the European Union and Europe at large are concerned about this coalition, except perhaps for the minister. It is not obvious that it is worrying that the average economic dispute in Slovenia lasts three and a half years until the ruling is passed and the state of Slovenia is, in this context, between 183 countries in the top 132th place. But apparently such a situation in the judiciary, which also affects the situation of the economy in Slovenia and also indirectly weakens it, is not worrying, but justice works as it works, according to the coalition – great. The representatives of the coalition are obviously not interested in a warning from the Council of the European Union, which is very exact. No! No! The coalitions obviously do not touch on the fact that there is a threshold between judges and bankruptcy administrators, for which there is a great deal of material, even of an image, and you could have it from members of the committee very widely represented. It is not surprising that the Chamber of Fugitive Managers exercises control over its members, but in the style, as one predecessor put it, "the crows don't turn off their eyes". In the coalition, it is considered that they must not interfere in the functioning of justice because it is their independent, independent and, above all, the untouchable branch of power. She's untouchable, and that's probably what we all agree on. In the case of faults between judges and insolvency administrators, it is obvious that a computer is responsible for the coalition’s representatives, which by some strange coincidence jumps or assigns individual cases by accident, which is likely to be chosen by itself. Very likely, very likely. The coalition is obviously not interested in the fact that a former minister has organised legislation in a way that has helped bankrupt managers and not creditors and the current poor minister not even allow him to be more strict, precise and dissuasive in his search for solutions, which he has announced, but I fear that coalition partners, particularly coalition representatives, will not allow him to do so. Slovenian legislation obviously has to have some holes so that individual dedicated people can implement their policy. And in this case, individual bankruptcy administrators can become rich for their work or even for their work abnormally, especially immorally. The coalition is obviously not interested in the fact that, in specific cases of cooperation between judges and bankruptcy administrators, cases have come to the prosecution as well as to the famous anti-corruption commission, but, from there, not to the spirit nor to the hearing. It is obvious that the representatives of the coalition are not interested in how the disqualification of the licenses of the bankruptcy manager or the possibility of the minister not to grant permission to manage the functions of the bankruptcy manager – these data obviously do not exist. We waited three hours on the board for that answer, and we didn't get it. The coalition is obviously not interested in the fact that the minister even has support for the opposition's announced changes in insolvency law, as he himself announced that it would protect the creditor and cut off the poultry from bankruptcy managers who no longer have anything to look for in their service. The fact that the coalition is obviously no longer interested is enough to say that the coalition did not support the decision, which is the fourth conclusion: "The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare appropriate amendments to the bankruptcy legislation to be regulated so that the speed of proceedings under the law on the average of the Member States of the European Union." Therefore, the coalition does not want to approach the average of the Member States of the European Union in this legislation, which is likely to tell us everything about their search for the right path for justice. To conclude, it is obvious that the Minister of Justice in this mandate, or in this coalition, is indeed fortunate because the members of the coalition feel that there are no problems in the field of justice and that there is no need for legislation or amendment of this legislation. On the other hand, Slovenians can be reassured by the fact that it is not unusual for individual judges and bankruptcy administrators to see the rule of law slightly differently than an average citizen, even though these bankruptcy administrators do well in doing so. Yes, I agree, in Slovenian justice everything is a tiptop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I apologize for the voice issues, but I think I'll understand. Today in this Chamber, it has been given several times that this debate is unnecessary, that there are no problems in the judiciary and that the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to influence the judiciary in essence with this extraordinary meeting. Of course this is not the case, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we decided to convene an extraordinary meeting, we referred to only one objective, which is to ensure that insolvency proceedings are conducted as transparently and efficiently as possible both in liquidations and bankruptcys. If we also rely on certain individual cases, this is simply because of an illustration of the difficulties that bankruptcy debtors and creditors face in these proceedings. Even if I refer to the debate of the Minister on the Committee on Justice and his introductory explanation here in the Chamber, it is right to stress once again that the Minister for Justice, Mr Plicanič, has also pointed out in his debate the transparency of personal responsibility in the judiciary and in the judiciary and the judges and insolvency administrators. In the debate, he drew attention to the need for Greece to ensure greater transparency in assessing the work of judges in order to adopt an ethical code. Here I will refer to Mr Balažica's debate, which in the judiciary has challenged one part of my debate. I'm sorry he's not here right now because he's talking about not seeing anything at all. When I spoke about morality and ethics, and that Mr Mile Dolenc, who is also in the personal world that has decided on the controversy or indisputability of the actions of Judges Roseman and Vovk, should say that he sees no issue in this and that he sees nothing immoral or unethical in the lectures that Mrs Vuk and Mr Dolenc are doing together in Nebra. And let me draw attention here to one January entry that you could all read from the media, that the Supreme Judges were filling their wallets and violating the code of court ethics. On 7 January this year, the Council for Judicial Ethics of the Slovenian Court of Justice adopted an opinion that the participation of judges as mediators in institutions outside the Court of Payment or a voucher is contrary to the principles of the Code of Judicial Ethics. Here we come to the point that I have pointed out in my debate, and very much in place is when we say that crows will not turn off their eyes. Are not the judges also in line with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption essentially the officials of this system? And of course, once again, the supervisory authorities have found nothing controversial in the conduct of these judges and bankruptcy managers. That is why these discussions are needed in the Assembly Hall and in the working bodies themselves. With regard to the perceptions you want to show and the actions of our delegation, if they are not in place, let me remind you that there is a lot of damage to our property or state property. Indeed, many times in these bankruptcy proceedings the State appears as a creditor, not only because of contributions, but also because companies owned by the State are going bankrupt. Here it is important to ensure a truly fair and legal state, and also workers who are left without payment in these bankruptcy proceedings, are those who have to worry about all of us Members and Members, and therefore today's debate is important and necessary. And it's sad that the coalition doesn't see the point in this. This is what I hope the voters and voters will reward you in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež is next, and then Joseph Horvat, Andrej Šircelj and Franz Bogovic. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. It's not true that coalitions are interested in this topic or these problems. But it's true, and I'm sure we don't share in the coalition that something that does not work well, but works, fix it with a macola. Opposition intent, requires the Slovenian Democratic Party after this extraordinary session as one in a series of showings of things is even worse than robbing people of more hope and leading things to incontinence in the country – and things really aren't far from that. I would like to take advantage of this debate today for a real and sober debate on what is the problem. Slovenia has a problem with the implementation of insolvency proceedings. While parts of Slovenian policy have always addressed this problem in exceptional cases of friendly associations between judges, bankruptcy administrators, and again with virtual solutions on how this problem can be solved simply by preventing a lawyer from being a bankruptcy manager at the same time, I want us to deal with this problem where it really is. This problem is because there is no control. However, it is not the supervision of a court which must monitor the legality of insolvency proceedings and individual acts within them, but those who have the first economic interest in bringing bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings lawfully, economically and maximising the benefit of creditors. So, trustees on their own. We have been with all the experiments we have had in bankruptcy legislation in the last 20 years, today at the point when it is necessary to find that the Slovenian system of purification and debt does not work. And once again, it is possible to start this debate in a way that the SDS does by reading newspaper articles from the past and today about how some bankruptcy manager has been associated with a friend. But in this way, respected and respected, we will not solve the problem, and this problem is real. I don't want to apologize to anyone, not the bankruptcy managers, not the board of directors of insolvency proceedings and not the courts. What is the duty of this legislative body is to create legislation that will be enforceable in the easiest possible way for the State and in the most fair way for participants in these procedures. I am convinced that this government has made a significant shift in the debate on the Systemic Disposal Act. While you have been looking for some solutions in the above-mentioned virtual prohibitions, which will solve everything, I have been alone for some time now, and for at least a few years in the National Assembly, I am talking about the fact that insolvent legislation does not work because we have put the court on a pedestal, but there are no economic or other parameters that could effectively lead the bankruptcy process in a different way than in the way we have known in Slovenian practice for the past 20 years. This is the case; the company is in trouble, it goes into a forced settlement first, it cleans up within the forced settlement and takes what is economically useful and valuable to the company and then it goes to bankruptcy. For creditors, there is almost nothing left if for someone, but for priority beneficiaries, and in the end, we have a company that sells out by works at auction, workers who start bankruptcy lose their jobs, lose their business process, lose their patents, lose their knowledge and what the company really does. How's it going abroad? There, however, the start of the bankruptcy procedure does not mean that the company has a new administration, it is the bankruptcy manager that has a new supervisory board, these are the creditors' representatives, and this bankruptcy manager does not have a new insolvency case every 14 days, but deals with this matter and only with this matter until it is resolved. In that bankruptcy process, not the sale of hal, patents, trademarks, but the company is sold as a whole and looking for a new strategic investor who will buy the company as a whole – not to break it. Yes, in these bankruptcy proceedings there are, of course, weak points in the company, unhealthy business activities and they are eliminated or eliminated by healthy cores. Workers do not lose their jobs, but continue their work at a company that is otherwise in bankruptcy. Lawyer Simonič, one of the authors of the Systemic Disposal Act, has in the past promoted this idea as an idea of rapid bankruptcy, claims that any bankruptcy can be solved within 42 days. Now let us look at the newspaper articles the SDS offers us. Let us look at the Slovenian reality, which partly reflects it. This suggests that Slovenia’s bankruptcys last for five years, a decade, or even 20 years. And here we have a problem because we gave the wrong roles to the wrong institutions. With each law on financial transactions and insolvency proceedings, step by step, we are correcting things in the direction of the right relationship, and this is that creditors must have a crucial role in the bankruptcy company, i.e. in the bankruptcy debtor or in another company affected by the consequences of insolvency, because they have their own economic interest to look under the fingers of the bankruptcy manager, the liquidation manager, i.e. the manager of the compulsory settlement, to do everything in accordance with the law, economically, economically and quickly, because this is a prospect of paying their claims. What, though, is undoubtedly important to the subject of intension? Obviously to prove that the government does not realize that the ruling majority ignores the problem simply because they do not want to participate in the political connotation of the same topic that forces and calls for witch hunting again. I think that this government has taken some important steps in this area; the amendment of the ZFPPIPP, which we have already adopted and which was more or less brought to the National Assembly by the previous government, which means a step forward, and the Act on Systemic Disposal, which, as far as I know, has been taking place since the previous government, which will constitute a parallel system of the Financial Action and Insolvency Procedures Act, in order to achieve an out-of-court settlement between key creditors and the firm that is incurring or insolvent insolvency. You know, we deal with the problem too many times at the wrong end. Yesterday I spoke to a professor at the University of Maribor, a professor of civil law. He is appalled at our ambition to end the land debt after the extraordinary cases we have seen in connection with the land debt. It's just a Slovenian principle. In some areas, abuses begin to occur and culminate, and we say that we will end this institution that allows these abuses to happen. This is the wrong way. This professor spoke to his German colleague, by the way, under German law, we have taken stock of the identical arrangement of the land debt they have in Germany. Slovenian and German professor of law are talking to him and Slovenia describes the problems we have with the land debt in our practice; many abuses, the chances that debtors will secure their assets so that creditors cannot seize it and so on. The German professor is surprised and says this can't happen in Germany. Why not? Because at a time when someone set up a debt of land to his advantage on his own property, his creditor’s claim came upon him. The Court would resolve this dispute quickly, and a debtor who would thus abuse the institutions of law, while losing this claim, would also file a serious criminal complaint. Therefore, in Germany such exceptional cases do not occur, and land debt has long been in their legislation. We'll just shut it down. Tomorrow, however, these same debtors will find another institute, such as a mortgage that can be misused in the same way against the interests of the debtor’s creditor — only as an example of the country’s problems. What I have to say is that the Systemic Disposal Act is too long a delaying step that we urgently need. I hope that in the days when this law comes into the National Assembly, there will be no such political debates, but that we will rationally discuss the problems and also consider how legislation, insolvency law, is possible, says the basic CFPIPP, to correct and simplify in a way that will in the future ensure more effective protection of the rights of creditors, their remuneration and what must be the first interest, from the systemic, strategic point of view of the country, in order to see the light of growth and recovery as easily as possible, as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that this debate on such important content has taken place today. Of course, I regret that the Committee and the National Assembly will not be able to adopt the relevant decisions to bind the executive branch of power in order to improve through the legislative process of the case in this segment, which is acute. See, about a bad year ago, the top of the Slovenian economy and some 500 other economists at Brdo pri Kranj from the Government and from Parliament – we were there – demanded a legal state. After a bad year, it is time for us in this house, in Parliament, to make an inventory and see what we have realised from these requirements of the Slovenian economy. I regret that there is no minister. I'm sure he could give us a report. But that, of course, can be done by the Government on the basis of our debate, can make it self-initiative or on the basis of a decision that I will not propose because it is unlikely to be adopted. I think we should do at least the kind of legal country that our competitors in the European Union have. I don't think it's necessary to detect hot water. My colleague Frangež has already mentioned some good examples from Europe, which is obviously alive. I think we could demand that the judiciary better organise itself and carry out its procedures in the short term. Last but not least, we have a whole series of cases in the neighborhood where these things run without any problems. Why are such problems in the area of bankruptcy in Slovenia? One of the answers is that bankruptcy procedures are good business, a very profitable business for bankruptcy managers, lawyers, valuers and perhaps others. I will only illustrate with one example, namely, the bankruptcy manager of SCT has done more than EUR 200 000 of legal services for SCT, at the same time and at the same location. So, one person, double bail. Two hundred thousand euros! Just for illustration, that's more than 130 net of engineering wages. That's why it's a good deal, so I'm sure it's such a harassment, who's going to become a bankruptcy manager, who's going to get that license. I regret that the coalition – I think in May this year – did not accept an amendment that would prevent lawyers from being bankruptcy administrators. The Anti-Corruption Commission, if I recall correctly, has also pointed to a high risk in such a case. However, not all procedures will be only in bad light and not all bankruptcy managers will be marked with a black dot – it is not true, in Slovenia we also have good cases of bankruptcy in this relatively short time. I'll describe one and it even happened in my constituency. Don't blame me for the local patriotism here, but he's very enlightened not to say school case. The bankruptcy of Planika Kranj was published in November 2004. November 2004. On 23 December 2005, 250 workers in Planika Turnište in Prekmurje stopped working. On 21 September 2005, a buyer appeared, Meindl. At the beginning of 2005, I was with the then ministers of the then government on a visit to this company, and I remember the statement made by the finance minister, Dr. Andre Bajuk, who, under the amazement of what these people can do, said, "We must not let this company out of our hands, we must keep this company." And thanks to the bankruptcy manager, it worked. If, as I said in December 2005, 250 people were fired from their employment, they were already employed on 18 January 2006. This is how bankruptcy procedures are done, of course in the new company – not everyone, not all 250, that I am exact, but 242. So, almost everyone. This is an example of good practice and Planika today successfully produced the brand of Planika Trekking, Planika Protect and so on. So, if there is a will, there is a path, and if there is a will, knowledge and awareness of what economic society really means, what work relationships mean, jobs, then solutions can be found. Today there was also a lot of talk about a famous photograph. See, the added value of photographs from the court-manager's joy, if I may say so, is in fact equal to the added value of the photographs of the workers of the fallen builders in the dreary containers. Everyone was or we all knew they existed, but we were amazed only when we recognized their faces. The twilight of ethical criteria in the background is pressing a key issue, especially in times of crisis: Why does the country, as far as the largest creditor, always allow millions, perhaps billions of euros, to disappear in bankruptcy proceedings? This is a key question and I wanted us to answer that question today, but given the conclusions that were not [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Franz Bogovic and Mr Jerko Čechovin are behind him. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think that this debate we have today is extremely important. I regret that this debate on legislation and procedures is not on the agenda of the National Assembly every year. Why every year? Because I think bankruptcy and insolvency procedures must be fully examined first from the perspective of legislation. And this legislation has changed over the decades by stimulating it to accelerate as long as possible procedures and by promoting as complex procedures as possible so as not to solve anything, of course, in connection with the banking system. Because we need to know that many companies that are in insolvency proceedings have connections to the banking system, especially in the sense that they have credits in banks, and if nothing is resolved, there are no responsible ones. Such a procedure in practice means that if we look at it procedurally, only in bankruptcy proceedings can it take five years to sell one property. For five years, actors who are in bankruptcy may complain about different decisions, decisions and so on in order to ensure that nothing happens. Today I do not want to talk about statistics, because we can talk about statistics and generalise the whole thing. I intend to talk about the fact that individual companies, banks, including other creditors, are workers and workers – people are said to be. These bankruptcy procedures have been designed and are also today designed not to benefit people. This has been said many times before by other interlocutors. They do not benefit people because they are drifting and because they last longer, people lose more rights, not just rights, but actually money. Why is that? I think that because there has never been any desire to substantially amend legislation that would allow bankruptcy to end within a few days if a new owner comes, if the new owner exempts healthy cores from the company and continues to produce, with activity, with sales and so on. As this was not done even during the worst crisis, when it was evident that we had many people unemployed, without rights, without wages, without basic necessities of life, today the whole matter continues. However, this was not done because there are certain clienteleistic links between the people involved in these procedures, starting with the drafting of legislation. There is an extremely large role to play in the Chamber of Fusion Managers, for, after all, in government procedure, the Ministry must always ask the so-called professional public what it is proposing in the legislation. This is how the government procedure is going on and will always have its interests to protect its paying members – here I am thinking precisely about this chamber which the bankruptcy managers are advocating – and these interests are not always in the direction that bankruptcy procedures are completed as quickly as possible, but the interests are that bankruptcy managers get as much money as possible, a certain position that they have certain procedures that bring so much and so much money. This is of course wrong and these are, if you want, customeristic connections. Then, in connection with bankruptcy courts or judges, we come to the point that we are simply ineffective and that this inefficiency means money for some bankruptcy managers and, on the other hand, much less money or, if you want, poverty for those who are creditors in these bankruptcy proceedings, including workers and workers. This is what is wrong today, and it is right to warn the Government of Alenka Bratušek that it has not done its task, which has been entrusted to it by the European Union or the European Commission in this area. That is the essence of today's debate. The point is that the rapid resolution of bankruptcy and insolvency procedures means that we will have fewer unemployed people, that we will have greater economic growth, that we will also open businesses to new owners and that these companies will be able to work and that we will also relieve the banking system. However, such a way of resolving insolvency, including bankruptcy proceedings, means that the liability for backward, including bankers, with bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy courts or judges will be exposed. This will have to be accepted in the country for once. We can't keep putting our heads in the sand and think that nothing is going on, that everything is going fine, that bankruptcy procedures are the best, and we don't react here. The response time of this government and the National Assembly is so bad, given the situation, that we are going to the most critical phase in the last 22 years of this country. Including bankruptcy proceedings and here the government is delaying – the delay of the government, the damage to citizens and citizens, those who are in this process and who are likely to be unemployed or looking for a job today and who are elsewhere, still have some rights. I think this debate is properly focused. This debate must go on to save businesses, as far as they already are. Many have already failed, entire sectors and activities have failed because we did not have appropriate bankruptcy procedures and because we did not guarantee the responsibility of those responsible for the bankruptcy of companies, especially in the case of crimes, and especially in the case of theft of property and irresponsible ownership. I think that there should be many more such debates in the National Assembly, and conclusions should also be taken in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u58	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President. Colleague, fellows! In the Slovenian People's Party, we always respect the institutions of the rule of law and also respect their decisions. We are aware that the judiciary is an independent, independent, third branch of government, but I think it is right that we, as legislators, should have such discussions as today's, and therefore we support the discussion of the work of the judiciary, in particular with regard to bankruptcy proceedings, liquidation procedures for which all together in Slovenia can be found if I use a mil term, they are not going well. Therefore, there is no need to use such meetings to determine who is responsible between us, who has done something wrong, which justice minister has done more, which minor errors, but in some way we all recognize and acknowledge in this area the need to make changes and to do what the economists have warned us about each year. On the one hand, there are very slow administrative procedures and a lot of complications in this area, and very quickly these procedures come to the attention that the proceedings in the area of economic disputes are very long and do not reflect and ultimately do not result in guilt. Regrettably, it often happens that in the end, who can endure such proceedings for longer or practically who of these two stakeholders will fail in these conflicts and thus end such disputes. Things are very problematic in the bankruptcy process itself. Today, it has already been said what kind of cases are out there. We all know that Parmalat got in trouble a few years ago, was in bankruptcy, and no one in the company actually knew it was a bankruptcy. The owners have changed, the company is working on and the same group, for example, is now the owner of the Ljubljana Milk Shops. As far as our procedures are concerned – it is typical that long-term exhaustion procedures continue to take place before these liquidation procedures occur at all or the bankruptcy of the settlement process, that bankruptcy managers will most often come to a burning site, that they will act more on the basis of scavengerage and that in some way those companies will be decommissioned. People, as has been said many times today, stay at home, lose groups that are capable of doing certain jobs, certain patents, and thus lose our competitive ability. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we support such discussions, which should ultimately result in guidance or in some way in common conclusions, how to correct our legislation, the scope of these procedures, in order to ultimately be effective and fast. I think it's very important in the light of the things that await us. As we all know, we look forward to what will be found in the stress tests of the Slovenian banks and, given the figures forecasted, given the establishment of the Bad Claims Management Company, it will be very important that, in the future, it will also be as effective as possible to manage these claims and that this will not once again be a new mountain, but that this area, where we will maintain the development core through effective procedures, will be maintained by groups capable of competing in this difficult market. That is why, as I have already said, I support such discussions. I propose, and I expect, in some way from the others, that these political tones in the debate when we talk about the third branch of the judiciary, let us all calm down and focus together on finding good solutions. Today, one good solution that came from Prekmur was mentioned. I can also say calmly that in the 1990s, as mayor, I was involved – given that one company in the Metal Group was partly indebted to the municipalities – as well as one successful procedure in which the Metal Group in the metal manufacturing industry was able to complete the process through the forced settlement process and to continue with a healthy core and the company is still operating in such an area today. So in Slovenia there are good practices and we make these good practices all together in the field of this legislation to improve in the direction that procedures will be as fast as possible, as effective as possible and that for most of these companies that have a healthy core, there will also be prospects in the future. The debate, as well as the conclusions that I think are not in any way affecting any political fields, but in the field of improvement of these measures – I agree and therefore I intend to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u59	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I intended to follow the discussions of the coalition Members and answer where I thought this was necessary. And you're making it impossible for me because you're completely silent or a large majority is completely quiet and out of it, but that's your problem. Someone – Mrs Potrata, you said I kept repeating the same numbers. Yes, Mrs. Potter, in 2009, I said three numbers, I think twenty times in one session. It was an intervention against Mrs Kresal, and at that time I said that Mr Pogačar was cashing EUR 136 000 to hire an NPU to pay for the loan of 125 000 and put 11 000 in his pocket. That's what I said, 15 times. But even 15 times you have not been convinced and voted in favour of Mrs Kresal. That is to say, if I repeat these numbers, maybe some other organs will ever understand something — you will not understand these numbers anyway. One year after that, the KPK and the Court of Auditors assured me that it was purely corrupt. You see, and that's why I've been repeating these numbers, and that's why I'm repeating these numbers, and that's why I'm repeating them, because I'm not telling you them, I'm telling them to the public because you don't have the sense to say these numbers. I'll tell you one more. Mr Frangež is talking about how we're going with a macola on things and not with some kind of operating knife. As long as Slovenian citizens who have three times the salary of Austrians or Germans, on average they pay – 18 judges and prosecutors in Austria per 100,000 inhabitants, 11 judges and prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants in Italy, 24 in Germany at three times the salary, and 50 judges and prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants in Slovenia. For them, as I said before, 89 euros, every citizen in Slovenia, in Germany is on average 42, and many times even 25. Until then, we need to talk about this. Now talk about the macola or the knife – just do something! Do something because that's what you're for. One more thing to say is that we will not just talk about the same things. Mr. Andrej Marinc, son of the famous Andre Marinc, your predecessor, was the bankruptcy manager in Elan. He was a bankruptcy manager in Elan and this man entered into an agreement on administrative and technical business with a private company, for which he paid €170,000, but did not say that he is only 50% owner. So, he made a deal with himself. The workers got nothing, and he put the money in his pocket. You know, that's why we need to talk about it. If you can think of a comparison with some other professions, Mr Braniselj will remember how he was in the police because he was there like I was once in that socialism. We both know what it would mean if someone put something in their pocket sooner or later. We both know that he was flying like a fluke, and in an hour, he was gone at the police station. That's probably what we both remember, that's how it used to be in that socialism, and that's what it is now. When the Katar case happened to the police — these are cathartic watches and prizes. When they put the watch or the money in their pocket, there was no one else in that job, no one. They've all been sanctioned, moved, gone. They wanted to come back to me, they convinced me, but it didn't happen, and they did it again with your minister, who also respected this kind of sanctioning of those who commit crimes. Let's move on to what it's like in court. In front of me is a picture of Judge Jelka Rozman – look at her, but she is not interesting. He's got a helmet on his head, and he's got a bike in his hands. It's a gift. This is a gift she received in 2011. From who? It's from the bankruptcy managers. Did the lady report that bike? You know that we have to apply for gifts worth €64 - here is the limit, if I am not mistaken. Did this lady report it? I don't know if she's succumbing to it or not? I think it's because she's a civil servant or at least she's subject to the internal rules of the courts. The adoption of such gifts is probably not allowed, as confirmed by the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Petrič, who later said in his interview with the Minister that what the media now see is not ethical and moral action of the judges. That's what he said. I think Dr. Petritch is right. Yeah, now let's see what their boss, Mr. Anton Panjan, has found out after all the long procedures. He finds, on the basis of the conduct of these judges, the following: "Considering the above explanations and findings, I assess that it is necessary to derive in fact from the distance of time to the recorded events, as well as from the findings of the competent authorities. These did not reveal direct corrupt practices, since the Court cooperated in cooperation with those bodies which investigated such cases in the appointed judges. It is true, however, that questions of professional ethics are raised, and it follows from the positions of the affected judges that their position deviates from the ruling standard on admissibility, personal connection between the judge and the insolvency administrator in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, irrespective of the specificity of this relationship, i.e. the relationship between judges and bankruptcy administrators, which requires greater cooperation between them, and this certainly must not exceed the limits of professional judicial ethics, which in general raises doubts about the impartiality of judicial work." Where's the bike? Where's the bike? He's not here. He's gone. He's gone. Where is this present? Where's the professional ethics? She probably drove off on that bike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ah, you've got a procedure, Mr. Tanko. Wait a minute. It's procedural in front of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It takes about 6 hours to meet with the National Assembly, discuss important points, problems that arise in bankruptcys, problems with certain bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy judges, and the government is not here. So, there's someone sitting here who doesn't have any authority, and he's silently following the meeting, and he's drawing the salary because he's sitting here. I propose, or on behalf of the Group of Members, that the meeting be suspended in order to ensure the presence of the competent persons of the Government or of the Minister, if it is not possible to provide it, the Secretary of State and I propose that we first get the answers and explanations to all the discussions that have been relatively large in these 6 hours. I think it is undignified, offensive to the National Assembly, that there is not enough wisdom in the coalition to provide adequate government representatives. We have already pointed out this problem several times, today we are witnessing the exact same story, and unfortunately the meeting of the National Assembly is a ritual when someone comes here, reads a few minutes' stand, and we see nothing that day. If the leadership of the National Assembly is unable to convene a meeting of the National Assembly, so that the appropriate representative of the Government is present, then I suggest that it be aligned in advance with those who are required to be present at the meeting of the National Assembly. This applies to this item on the agenda, to certain previous items and also to future items to be held at the meeting. Not long ago, when there was another government, we had great problems if the minister went by chance to look for a glass of water or perhaps a toilet. There has been no one here for five hours, and neither does Mrs Potrate, who knows the rules of procedure and ethics, nor any other member of the coalition, nor the members of that coalition party who should have their minister and agenda here today. I propose that the meeting be suspended in order to ensure the presence of the Minister or the Secretary of State and that clarifications of the discussions held at that time are obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I'm sure the minister and the others are watching our meeting. I decided that I would still allow a debate for five minutes, including the replica of Mrs Majde Pate. Then, if the Minister doesn't arrive at this time and no one from the Ministry will be present, I'll be adjourned in ten minutes. And now we continue for the next five minutes. Mag. You have a replica of abortion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I am used to Mr Gorenak having doubts about my intellectual abilities, but I will say this: I will not disappoint him, and in the absence of his interlocutors, because he mentioned how he misses them, I will replicate to him – in that part, to express my enthusiasm for how suddenly the KPK has become an important institution. However, I think of the KPK itself as an institution which, by its duty and according to its applications, has to do its work and perform it, but some of these institutions do not recognise it if it is against their interests. And there's nothing else to talk about. With regard to the numbers and other topics that Mr Gorenak has dealt with, it is because of me in the fairy tale manner and humanity that I perceive in Mr Gorenak's language that I can expect him to find out some other source of his already expressed debates and make us happy with the numbers that he himself has said after 15 times. [[...]] The problem is not in the ability to understand or misunderstand, but the problem is that I do not prescribe the role of dogma in the words of Mr Gorenak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u65	Thank you very much. And Mr. Beznik. I think we still have so much time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would like us to go back and ask ourselves why this meeting was necessary. Since my last colleague Majda Potrate spoke to me, I would still say that this meeting is intended primarily for all those people who once worked at TAM who once worked in Elektrokovina, who once worked in Zlatrog, and for all those who were defrauded. I can't pay them back today, all of these things; when they watched the bankruptcy managers, instead of trying to sort out, sell the company, square it, sell it at the price of the property, sell the machines below the price, and eventually, what was left of it, the money, the purchases they got, they kind of lent it to the various small private companies. These are stories, but on these stories, as history says, let's learn. We learn that something like this would never happen again. These people are destined for today's session. We are now in the second phase of Slovenian problems. We are now facing the death of so-called social capitalism, the capitalism of Forum 21, the so-called capitalism of national interest. Today, companies are not dying because their products or services would be uncompetitive in a global economy, but because we have been looking for domestic owners and, as your Minister of Economic Affairs says, all these companies are undercapitalised, they have insufficient equity capital. We're wondering why they don't have it? Because those who want to be owners don't have their own money, and they never deserve it. Look, my friend Frangež had a very mid-term debate today, and I can say that I am sticking to his principles. In the last sentence of this debate, however, he said that when in Germany such matters as he was talking about, about land debt, someone complains at the moment, the court shall act immediately. To return to today's debate, Members of the SDS today have a number of principles. I think we agree and that we have also had some positive reflection on insolvency legislation, but this insolvency law can also work if our justice system works. Part of our non-competitiveness, part of the non-competitive modern Slovenian society, which is uncompetitive mainly because of the monopolistic positions of some institutions – I am talking mainly about state-owned companies, I am talking about some networks that keep the country in some imbalance – is also uncompetitive because the rule of law does not work. All the judicatures issued by the court in that final decision are too long. This is not the opinion of the SDS, this is not the opinion of the New Slovenia, the People's Party, this is the opinion of the European Commission. Here you also see the wide-ranging case-laws of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where these cases last endlessly. Slovenia too is due to endlessly long civil or economic crime procedures or economic procedures – these procedures are too long and we are therefore uncompetitive. We are very hostile to foreign investment precisely because of these matters. So, we're talking about an institution that's self-sufficient, which is self-sufficient, which is chlorinated, it's as it used to be in politics. For 45 years, the same hands were raised, spoken in one language. The political word was the one that was decisive, and this policy did not accept any criticism. This monopoly was abolished 23 years ago. Then we once had a brief period, a glorification of doctors, that they were infallible. We're done with that, too. Now we have the glorification that our judiciary, despite receiving numerous criticisms, works well. I'm just saying, it doesn't work so well. However, it does not work well because most of the judges at the highest institutions were educated in a strange educational system where law was not right. We've got some serious problems. I looked at all the history, and above all, the area of East and West Germany in the merger of East and West Germany was very interesting. There, for the most part, all judges were immediately retired over 50 years of age, and the younger judges immediately went under control and into immediate education. They have not been able to conduct judicial proceedings in countries with a democratic basis. The Court of Justice of the European Communities also notes the differences and has also analysed the caselaws of the former Eastern Judges who have received the trust of the Court of Human Rights. They have found that their judicatures do not give too little consideration to fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms. What am I trying to say? I want to say that, above all, it is a consequence of some professional matters, i.e. the basic philosophy of law learning in some democratic countries. And that's one problem. My personal opinion, I have also said this several times, including to the Minister of Justice, that Slovenia needs an extraordinary monitoring of the judicial system. He needs it to prove who these errors are; whether I am wrong about whether these mistakes are of a professional nature or are of an organizational nature or if these errors are possible on our part. Judges have too much legislation, some cases are too much in law, and these laws should be clearer. I propose that if we agree to ask the European Commission to draw up a plan - I think we have had a German judge Dukoff here years ago, who has pointed out the difficulties the Slovenian judicial system has – and to prepare a whole range of experts, there may be a whole range of retired judges, a whole range of extraordinary judges who have been at the highest distances in Western European countries and who come for a review of the Slovenian judicial system. We will also protect ourselves here, but on the one hand, if this debate is good, these judges will also be able to protect themselves. This would be one proposal that could somehow be taken into account. That is why these discussions are important. It is also important that, if the justice system does not work, new insolvency laws, respected colleagues and colleagues will not work. These are my concerns, and I think that such debates as today are urgently needed. Above all, it is necessary that things that have happened no longer happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Now, as I have predicted, because there is none of the government's representatives, I am adjourning in 10 minutes. We'll continue at 7:46.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u68	We continue with the adjourned session. Procedural? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, by leaving part of the debate and interrupting the meeting for 10 minutes, we haven't actually saved anything. The problem remained exactly the same. There is no Minister, there is no Secretary of State to respond to all the dilemmas raised at this point. I must say that the Secretary-General of the Government of the College fought extremely hard for the Government to have an hour to discuss at this point in the agenda. So it was estimated that the government needed a lot of time to explain. Today, while we're waiting for these explanations, none of the government's representatives are here. Not the Minister, not the Secretary of State, not anyone else who would be empowered by the Government to respond to the problems and dilemmas arising from the consideration of this item on the agenda. I suggest you check where the Minister is and what he's doing, if he can't come if he can't, but make sure someone else's participation is ensured. We cannot agree that there is no one at such important points of the agenda who has announced the time that he has committed himself to saying that he will defend the government’s position at this point — but he is not. I do not understand that ministers have more important responsibilities than the meeting of the National Assembly at this time. There are no meetings of the Government, no other measures are taken, it is said, only that remains, except for those likely evening hobby activities, such as bowling, fitness, solarium or similar stories. But this is not what we expect from the minister today at this point in the agenda. I propose that you extend the suspension for as long as it takes until a responsible representative of the Government comes to the National Assembly, who will be able to explain this part of the debate that has taken place so far. I am also interested, personally, in why the Government does not support the submitted positions, which we have tabled together with the request for an extraordinary meeting, why they do not support even those amendments that we have tabled for this extraordinary session. That's an important question. Putting your head in the sand is probably not the solution to these things, but the adoption of the basis, recommendations and so on for an appropriate course of action. I suggest that the meeting be suspended in half an hour and that you ensure that the Minister or the Secretary of State arrives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u70	Procedurally, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I strongly agree with Mr Jozet Tank, who has pointed out the ignorance of the Government at this point, and it is unacceptable for all of us Members and Members to sit alone in this Chamber. We Social Democrats are 90% present at this point and we are aware of the importance of this point, but we also have rules of procedure to respect. That is why I propose that because the Rules of Procedure do not talk about the suspension of the meeting, because there is no Government, this meeting is also due to the work you have tabled, that we continue, that we hold a debate and that at the College of the President of the National Assembly, which we will have in the coming days, we will have a discussion on when the Government must be present or why the Government is not present in such a case. I agree with you, Mr Jože Tanko, but because of one minister there cannot be 90 members of the prisoners. 90 Members have been sitting in this Chamber or most have been sitting for several hours, some since morning, because they have already had an extraordinary meeting of the committee, and I do not think it is right for Members and Members. Therefore, I propose that we continue the meeting because we are so instructed by the Rules of Procedure, but that this thesis that you have is resolved at the College of the President of the National Assembly and that we draw the Government's attention to the right work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Procedural proposals are now being followed, but I think we should first decide on the first procedural proposal. As chairman, we should do so and then, if we decide to continue the meeting, further procedural proposals may be made. So that there are no problems, Mr President, I propose that we vote on this proposal. I may request a vote on the proposal to suspend the meeting for as long as we do not provide a representative of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary of State. If you reject this proposal, it will also be a kind of recognition of the tolerance of things that you have not tolerated a few months ago. In the previous months, when we had another government, as I said before, there were major problems in the absence of a competent government representative here. Even if there was no minister, there has been a major revolution among some of the current coalition parliamentary groups, and I propose that, at this important point, as well as other important points that will follow, both in regular meetings and perhaps in other forms of meetings, the President of the National Assembly will reach some agreement with the Government. The meeting on bankruptcy issues is not intended for itself, we cannot propose all solutions as Members, nor do we know them. The government has a professional apparatus for this, 30 000 or more state officials, including at the Ministry of Justice there are a few dozen or maybe 100, and I suggest you make sure we get the right answers we're looking for. I mentioned earlier that the President of the National Assembly could, even in agreement with the Government, propose to convene a meeting at a time when ministers and ministers have time, so that they would not be alone here and convince each other, but that the Government would explain some things, because we do not have all the information. So, Madam President, I propose that we suspend the meeting on this motion for the suspension of the meeting until the Minister or any of the Secretaries of State arrives.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your proposal. I was right before, and I gave the government and all of us time to join us. At this point, I will read to you what our parliamentary practice has been saying all these years, saying: "The absence of a representative of the Government or of another motioner of the matter at the meeting of the National Assembly is not a commercial reason for the suspension of the meeting. While the Rules of Procedure provide that the applicant may provide an additional explanation for the matter, he must, if so decided by the National Assembly. But it's a complementary explanation." I decided to continue the meeting, but I expect someone from the government to join us at that time. I think it is correct for all Members who are here today to continue the meeting also because of the subject which, as you and we have estimated, is extremely important. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u75	Dear Chairman! I know that the Minister comes from your parliamentary group or from your client, your quotas, and it would be up to you to expect us to be more sensitive to such a proposal that I have made. I don't think there's any way to allow such ignorance in the National Assembly, that after all the effort we've put into preparing the materials for this session, in preparing the recommendations, in preparing the debates, there's no one here to answer any of the questions. If you are introducing such standards of work in the National Assembly in this part of the mandate, then I must tell you that it is not good. It's going to happen, say, an interpellation, and there's not going to be a minister who's going to be interpellationed here to answer. That's the next step. [[advertising from the hall]] It will be possible and such ignorance can and will happen in this way — because the minister may or may not be here. And there are a number of other things that have such consequences. I therefore propose that, in order to protect the integrity of the National Assembly, as well as to protect us who have proposed this item on the agenda, ensure the participation of the Minister or one of the State secretaries, because we are not selective. However, we would like answers to the questions raised, to the concerns that exist in dealing with this matter, which is fatal for a lot of people in this country, both in terms of economic activity and perhaps other property consequences. So you can take the debate on this, I think it only indicates that other members of the coalition may not have exactly the right attitude towards the matter under consideration. Madam President, I propose that you put a procedural proposal to the vote, that the majority decide on the proposal, and do not drag yourself out with different interpretations. This would not be unusual if we had voted on this proposal, nor would it have been the first time that we had voted on the motion. However, I do not think it is appropriate that we do not vote on the proposal, but you are taking other procedural proposals forward. I therefore propose that we first clarify the first procedural proposal, saying that we are voting on the suspension of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u76	As I have said, I intend to continue this meeting because it allows me to do so in the rules of procedure, as well as parliamentary practice is nothing new or nothing this time, which I would like to invent in a new way today. As far as I'm concerned, I want the session to continue. But there's a procedural Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u77	The President, what you have just said, was my intention, in particular, to highlight the part where it was said that there was a need to ensure an uninterrupted and uninterrupted presence. In this term of office of the National Assembly, we have witnessed several times that the meeting was held all day and all night, and we also had a period of several hours when there was no Minister or State Secretary in the previous government, and video technology allows us to monitor it all the time. I am sure that the presence will continue to be assured, but I should stress the following. This meeting has no conclusions and we are not considering any law. At the outset, the Minister made it very clear that he would propose a novel, and when he proposes it, there will also be a very appropriate time when it will be very difficult to discuss what is to be expected and is also desirable for you to be actively involved in the debate. Therefore, today to work from this extraordinary session that you have convened, and we have already stated our views on this extraordinary session, is totally inappropriate. That is why such a proposal, Vice-President of the National Assembly, does not make sense to discuss and vote on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I am also sure that someone from the Ministry will join us in the next meeting. Now we continue the debate. Dr. Joseph Kunic, you're the next discusser, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u79	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! First of all, I hope I cheered up Dr. Gorenak, who wished he had heard someone in his position before, but there was a delay and an idea of further delay by your colleagues. Well, anyway, we just came to the bottom of it. In history, professions were actually immune to various criminal proceedings. We know that the doctors were once the ones who had this immunity, and the pilots, and in this area things have changed a lot. However, we see, and this has also been the debate of many of you that such responsibility is not in the proper sense of justice. And I agree with that, it really isn't the right measure of responsibility. But I must point out that this area is significantly more sensitive than any other area. We know that in history many regimes have subordinated justice to achieve their objectives — under the cover of responsibility for certain procedures. That is why I advocate that this be resolved in an extremely sensitive, professional, thorough manner and that we get a comprehensive solution in this assembly. I would say that in history, justice has come under the umbrella of politics on several occasions, citing certain cases of excellence. Today we have witnessed this several times. In fact, whenever we discuss a broader subject, there are always some outstanding examples. But these individual examples must not let us know that we do not see the forest because of a few trees. We have to take this warning somehow. I heard that our side was supposed to be, so I understood, satisfied with the state of justice. That's a long way from the truth. We are not satisfied with this situation, and the Minister stressed that he wants improvements and that he will work on it. So the criticism I've heard from one of your discussers, if we're thrilled, if I understand correctly, is not justified. But it's important. Today, representatives of the judiciary, representatives of the Supreme Court, have also told us that they want improvements, but they have told us what is the trend. This is very satisfying and can encourage us all together. In fact, they listed how time is being reduced, how efficiency is increasing, everything with numbers and part of it has already been listed by Colleague Pót. I will not repeat this, we can all have a record or text of what they said, and we can read it. With the trend, we can be satisfied and I think that this needs to be stressed. Of course, we are not so pleased to say, but everything is fine now. So, let me rephrase. I am not for quick, horrifying solutions, partial solutions – this is extremely dangerous in this area. We have had them many times, and we see that the result of this is exactly the situation that you criticize your colleagues. I think two goals should be pursued. One goal is the quality of the entire justice system, but another goal seems to me to be extremely important, and that is confidence in this system. And I wonder whether today's debate, where there have been a lot of criticisms, would be difficult to say entirely justified criticisms, because negative things have been cited and positive things have not been highlighted, at least as far as I have heard – whether this contributes to confidence in justice. Personally, I do not think that today's meeting has produced results to increase confidence in this justice. In fact, it has complemented a variety of critical, negative thinking about justice, which is so and so always present among all nations more or less. I think that the Ministry should do its part to come up with a comprehensive solution to this meeting and we will discuss such comprehensive solutions in depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! So, at the edge of the whole debate on bankruptcy law, I would just say something. It is a pity that they are dealing with some past, with some history of this legislation, either under Sturm or under Zalar, but we need to know that from time to time this legislation has changed, improved, modified to such an extent that we see some positive developments here. Of course, justice alone today estimates that it is not satisfied with the state of justice. But we are strengthened by the fact that things are slowly being regulated and slowly getting that trace and that dynamic that we want. I am not going to say that this debate, which was encouraged by the SDS, is wrong or that it is not right. It's a good thing we're talking about this. However, all these facts and all these parameters, which point to improvements, also show this and influence the hope that things will improve in the future. I understand that the relationship between the judiciary, the ministry and the Chamber of Fusion Managers is not good enough to do much more. However, what has been heard today on the Committee on Justice, that modification is being prepared or that the amendment of this law is being prepared, gives rise to the hope that it will be better in this area. So this debate is going to take place today. It is likely that from this debate everyone present from the judiciary who have been on the committee will also read the magnetograms to see where those points that need to be modified change and improve. I come from an environment where there's been a lot of bankruptcy. With these bankruptcys, at least those of us involved were not satisfied. Here were prizes, here were lifetimes that were completely incomprehensible, and these things have already improved a little bit. I am confident that, as soon as the new law is in place, when this legislation is ready, as the Minister of Justice has promised today, it will obviously be better. Finally, if we look at statistics, Slovenia belongs to 42nd place from 170 countries after success, talking about something that has been done and something has changed. In the future, I expect that this legislation, which is in preparation, will provide answers and also regulate those anomalies that are in the process as a whole, so that this will obviously be better. I'm not saying the debate was free. I think that in this debate at least what has been highlighted is that it will be marked by the Ministry of Justice, by those who are drafting legislation, and will correct it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Well, some of the debates are going in the right direction, like the last two. But I would like to listen to this kind of debate in 2008. In 2008, I know what it was like to make one of the first statements in the role of Member and Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and have criticised one decision of the Constitutional Court. Yeah, that was really bad. Here in the National Assembly, the entire treaty was lifted. I have the magnetograms drawn up, how we must not even talk about the decisions of any court, because this is forbidden, we just have to step down as a Member. That's what it looked like back then. So it's also caught up in politics, as I see it, and it's right to get caught. So it's not our goal. And now about the fact that the situation is not improving because it is in some areas. [[...]] The representative of the Supreme Court spoke in the morning – there are 30th and 40th cities and so on and there are also cities from 172th of 183. For example, judicial proceedings in a standard economic dispute are taking place, as they say, the longest in Europe. So you have to see both things – that's one thing. And secondly, I know that Mr. Head of the Positive Slovenia Group has a lot to do with dinners, lunches and probably tomorrow with some breakfast, but there's no need for us [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I know you have a lot of work to do, because I see and I read. Still, we don't need to be taught here how to have an infertile session, because I'm going to have to read to you what I read to someone else before, so you can hear it, because you probably didn't have time. You also said we had no conclusions. Well, let's see what we suggested and what you were up against. We need to look at this for the public to see what you have been up against and why there will be no vote at the end of this sitting. Let's read them. We proposed: "The National Assembly took note of cases of friendly links between bankruptcy managers and judges", interlocutors and images you could see in newspapers and on television, "and finds irregularities in the assignment and appointment of managers, in the conduct of proceedings under the Financial Business Act, in insolvency and forced termination proceedings, and the repeated occurrence of unjustified delay in those procedures and dispute in the award of awards to managers." So, we're just finding out. That's what we suggested to find out. You did not support this, so there will be no vote. Point two, there we said: "The National Assembly notes that the procedures for the supervision of managers and judges in proceedings under the Financial Operations Act, insolvency and forced termination proceedings and the Judicial Service Act are poorly regulated and do not allow for transparency of proceedings." We just found out it wasn't right. We wanted to find that the bankruptcy judge, Mrs Jelka Rozman or whatever – the one with the bicycle and the helmet she received for the gifts, that is, that lady – is nothing to blame because that is how she found the judicial branch of power, and also Mr. bankruptcy manager Gorše, that he was not to blame in the opinion of the Chamber. And those who gave the gifts to the judges were not guilty either, so the Governing Body decided. That's all we've pointed out. You're against such a warning, so there won't be any final vote. Here we go: "The National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the merits of the establishment and functioning of the Board of Governors and to regulate the responsibilities of the managers, control over them and to regulate the responsibilities of judges who conduct and supervise them under the Judicial Service Act, and to prepare legal amendments... " And so on, I don't read until the end. We wanted to say that the National Assembly recommends that the Government do something about it. And the minister said this morning he was preparing all these laws. If I understood him correctly, he even promised a package of fifteen laws, including these, by the end of the year. So, we just wanted to point that out and help the minister. I don't know who this minister is now, whether he's ours or yours. Looks like it's ours or how. We want to help him, and that is why we wanted the National Assembly to support and support such a decision in its efforts to make better legislation in this area. You are against it, so there will be no vote in the end and the debate will therefore be held in something we do not want. Of course, I would also like the Minister's reply – I hope he will come – or the secretary of state, what they think about these matters. What does he think that the opposition now supports him in his efforts to regulate the situation in the judiciary and is not supported by the coalition and its own party? His own client doesn't support him. I'm sorry. You voted no. And once again, Mr Braniselj, the leader of the parliamentary group, tell me how many disciplinary procedures there are and how many criminal proceedings you have been talking about. In 2010 you informed Europe that we had one disciplinary procedure in Slovenia, but here you talked about 10, 20, 30, 50. Tell me what's true now. I think it's true what I said. One disciplinary procedure went to Europe. All he was saying was, however, the criminal charges people are filing because they think they were wronged in the trial proceedings. But the courts or the prosecutors are dismissing this criminal charge because they consider it not a crime. Not fooling the public how everything is fine in court and how responsibility is arranged there. Responsibilities are not arranged. Responsibility is not regulated because in Europe in 2010 the Pahor government also reported that we had one procedure, and this is a disciplinary procedure. Look, don't make double data, so that people think the situation is one way or another, but in fact it's completely different. It is only right that we are very careful about this. I still expect the reply of Mr Branislj and the Minister or Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Attack, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia is clearly a reverse country. That our country is indisputable in the crisis, they prove in the past all hidden and revealed interests. The consequences of these are rooted in Slovenian "autonomic and credible justice".I am interested as a young citizen, or I wonder where the responsibility and freedom of all and all officials is displayed, with all due respect. When we speak of the responsibility of a normal country, we must draw attention to the deviations in the doses and payments of the high prizes to friendly bankruptcy managers. And where was the coalition's responsibility in these years? What's going on in our country? Workers are running out of wages, the crowds of lower layers do not listen, bankruptcy managers can gain thousands and thousands of euros more than the profits guaranteed when the company is bankrupt. Is it not true that all the mistakes in our society appear exactly in these imbalances, where the consequences are borne by citizens? This is where Europe goes up or down. In addition, we must note that all the recommendations of the Council of Europe regarding the national reform programme on timely and effective resolution of bad loans have never been taken into account. Furthermore, it is worrying that the average economic dispute in Slovenia lasts three and a half years until the sentence of a legal judgment. Thus, Slovenia is on the tail of the scale between the last 15 Member States in this context. The standard economic dispute takes much longer than in Europe. At this point, I ask the Government why it has not supported these recommendations and also these recommendations made by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And since we are portraying ourselves as a country, I ask myself, or ask you, where is that order after 20 years of systemic regulation and responsibility, and how do you want to gain confidence in the public. And I'm talking about all the branches of power, because we're all in this shithole together, I can say. On the shoulders of young people, of course – that we also understand each other. This is a question of ethical responsibility. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission should identify controversial links between insolvency managers and bankruptcy judges. Is this where the Slovenian state is built and maintained? So far, all explanations and excuses are justified by, quote: "Unlawfulness has unfortunately not been detected by the competent authorities." If this is happening in Slovenia, where are the real supervisory authorities. It seems to me that the KPK has failed to play its true role of responsibility and I am concerned about the time distances between reporting and identifying these irregularities, since this has not been done since yesterday, respected. Perhaps it is time to agree on further procedures, systemic arrangements, disciplinary measures. It is interesting, however, that traces of this moral state are revealed by the highest authorities of this country, including the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement, without undue delay, prepared by the first government of Janez Janša. But it's some kind of truth. There's nothing wrong with being friends. To argue; the friendly word revives and the enemy kills. However, there is a problem when today’s general view of the type of word is particularly current, since society has been manipulating the word for more than a century. The manipulation of the human word in the media is present and so Slovenian man is exposed daily to the propaganda influence of the media, which imposes their word on him. Now to be a little more linguistically philosophical, I have to quote the Slovenian linguist: "Every hatred in the core is murderous and therefore criminal in the Cali. It is evil, though, that hatred floweth like a word, like friendship." On this basis, we can interpret the word as a bearer of good and bad. If we look back into history, we can confirm it, but we do not know how many victims have destroyed the evil language with the evil word. Again, I quote: "A friendly word is regularly experienced as a healing and soothing embalm." And there's a reason why friends often visit each other and look for each other. This is where the identity crisis, which is a special feature of modern times, opens up. It also opens up the crisis of the identity of the Slovenian word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Braniselj asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u87	Dr. Gorenak, let's get these things straight away. I have already said that I have drawn my implementation, statistics from the Statistical Office, from statistics made by the Supreme Court, and these things are correctly summarised by statistics. The fact is, in 2012 we had 49 criminal charges. It is clear that some have been rejected, even many have been rejected, but the fact is that we have come into a situation where people hope to criminalize the judge as well. This is actually an achievement in this society, because I don't think we've been used to it years ago. I was also talking about the charges and the court-martialed verdicts. I said that in 2010 we had one legal convicted person, then in 2011 again one and then three in 2012, by issuing three security measures for three persons, probably banning the exercise of a judicial profession. I draw from official verifiable data, and I don't deceive the public because I wouldn't even hope for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u88	Thank you very much. It's not possible to replicate the replica. On behalf of the proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u89	But now we're there, and it's okay, and now there's no problem. There are no convicted judges. Because if we're looking at it that way, we need to know that there were complaints against police officers at the annual level a few years ago, and I don't have any more recent data, a thousand and 400. However, we both know that usually 10% of these complaints are justified. Let's say 140. But that's the way things are with the judges. I believe criminal charges have been filed, but there are no convicted judges. They're not here for 2010, so we're clear. I think it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The debate will continue. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u91	Interestingly, after five or six hours of monitoring the debate that I was accompanying here, I did not go out and listen to video conferences, actually listening to everything — interesting. You're always talking about ours, your minister, ours or your government. And Janša's government, I'm sorry, was our government and Pahor's government was our government and the current minister is our minister, but it's from another quota, from the government of Alenka Bratušek. In fact, I am pleased that there will be no vote tonight, because we have decided on the rules of procedure and we have this right. That's the first reason. And the second reason is that this session is unnecessary, too poorly prepared, which together is confused and aimed at everything we've already said today, which is what you're doing in the SDS. This is actually the purpose of this meeting and we are taking it forward. I'll try to say some things. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, the debate about political parties, what did you say about Greece at the time, who's leading it? Why is today a good argument for what Greece is proposing around the courts, and three days ago this was not a good argument. This is not how we do things if we want to put politics in a better light than we have today. That's not how you do it. That is why today, with such a debate on the judiciary, we will not come to improve the rating or the reputation of politics, including our National Assembly. Mr. Gorenak, you're actually insulting. Deplorable by his way of working, doubting whether any of the Members are capable or incapable of comprehending what you are saying. That's not how you do it. You were talking to me at the beginning, maybe you were talking to me about what I look like. By the way, I could tell you yourself that if I looked at you like this, I wouldn't say that, because you know what I'd say. That's not my way. I would therefore say that our courts, ladies and gentlemen, are not the problem in this case that we are talking about. Speaking of bankruptcy, courts are not a problem. The problem is that we've reached bankruptcy, that's what managers are responsible for, and someone else, including us in the National Assembly. But the problem is that bankruptcy procedures are too long. I was directly involved, or neighbor, when we talked about Vegrad – Vegrad’s bankruptcy is not yet over today – and I know how long it took the bankruptcy manager to reach at least that she knew about the claim, how much responsibility, who's arguing, what needs to be done, and it wasn’t such a simple procedure. Our task should be to try to support the Minister, who said that the judicial branch must be independent, independent and that the judicial branch must cleanse itself and that we are the ones who, through the legislative procedure, ensure that the judicial branch can work. The court is working, and I am very sorry that Mr. Gorenak, among other things, said: "What is the matter then? Slovenians have far the most judges per 100,000 inhabitants, far from doing the least, this also applies to prosecutors. And then it will be difficult for you to convince me that no intervention is necessary, and this constitutional intervention, in justice, because they themselves will not be cleansed." This is an extremely harsh assessment based on this — without any in-depth analysis without talking to those who have been called in this area and who know much more about it than we know here. And now, on everything beautiful here, we explain that we need to change the constitution, because the courts don't work because prosecutors don't work, instead of trying to provide a framework and a political environment for everything to happen as it shouldn't. Today, we judge an individual judge or judge as to what he has done wrong. That's not what we're called in for. Someone else is called to investigate what's wrong with this place. We have the police to do this, and we have someone else, the prosecutors, who have to do this. But if we think we know that everything is really wrong, then we make a report, because we know that, and this report will lead us to finally get the defendant's proposal for it. Not ours, not mine, not yours, not any of us have the right to convict anyone. I'm sure the National Assembly isn't called to convict. Today, much was said to lean on Austria to lean on Germany. Maybe when we're talking about the economy. We talked about which government is the worst. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a talk about this at the beginning. You know, whoever the government is, we can say it's bad or it's the worst. Once again, let me say that it is our government and that we have no other government, and I believe that it will continue to do so. Someone today said that economic growth or a fall is the responsibility of the judiciary. He doesn't even seem to be holding. It is true, however, that we should provide a legislative framework so that the judiciary can work successfully and that legislative procedures should also run as they should. Now maybe there's something else they know about reaching out to the legislature. Today we are not directly interfering with the legislative branch of power, but we are implementing pressure, and we are working today on the pressure on the legislative branch of power. And these pressures are not justified because they are not based on the right foundation and on the right data. It would certainly be necessary for us to have answers from the judiciary, from the one we accuse here that he is doing badly, and from the prosecution that we accuse him of doing badly. It would be right for them to answer to say, and as I heard on the committee today, so was done. Therefore, it would be appropriate to tell thousands of stories here when we are having a debate on such an important problem as bankruptcy procedures — all those who have talked about workers who do not get wages that are difficult to live because of bankruptcy. But that would be a valuable eppe for something where we make political gains at the expense of workers who suffer and cannot help themselves. But let's make sure that bankruptcy procedures can run faster and that these bankruptcy procedures lead to what you're talking about here. It is also true that we cannot compare each economic system with the fact that some are simpler and others more complicated and that it is therefore necessary to ask those who are most working on it. When you were talking about the Board of Fusion Managers, who else was supposed to be in the Chamber as bankruptcy managers? What should the chamber do other than lay professional bases while others exercise control? The control must be carried out by the person who is called to do so, who is also responsible. When we speak in the National Assembly, we speak by not pouring oil on the fire of discontent, but by trying to do what the National Assembly has to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak, the next one has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u93	Thank you very much. At least I listened to you myself, and you were yelling at me during my performance, so I couldn't talk. And that's the difference between us. You were talking about how KPK or Greece came to us once and twice. Now let me put it this way – at least read the request before you talk about it. In our request, Greece is not mentioned in any place. I don't know where you found him. And on this side, no one has talked about Greece in connection with matters about justice. But we talked about the Council of Europe, and that's what I've been talking about, and they're also writing about it in a request. It is the Council of Europe that has drawn attention to these things, and it is the Council of Europe that has written down that the judiciary can contribute significantly to economic growth. That's what it says! You deny it, but that's your business. That's what it says. It's not a made-up thing. You're saying we can't judge. We can't judge, of course we can't. The bankruptcy administrators who are in the chamber, who you say is professional, don't want to. The minister reported six of them and what happened. They made a disciplinary decision. They told themselves they didn't do anything. If it's section No, it's not profession, it's "the crow's crow doesn't turn off its eyes." [[...]] That's it! Therefore, these procedures should be transferred from the Chamber to the Ministry, as ordered by Dr. Sturm. Nothing else, that's all we have to do, and we'll have a significantly better situation in this area. There are no arguments about the judiciary and we have no right to speak critically about them. I repeat, if you haven't heard. Let's move on. 18 judges and prosecutors are paid by Austria, three times the GDP or twice the GDP. Italy 11, Germany 24, we 50. I told you before, they're not doing their job. I have an argument for that. Let's see the numbers! The Austrian prosecutor receives a thousand 600 files a year and produces 212 indictments, Italy receives a thousand 800 files, 371 indictments, Germany 880 files and 206 indictments. In Slovenia, however, the prosecutor receives at least 554 files and writes 89 indictments or four times less than German, Italian or Austrian. If you believe that Slovenian citizens still have to pay €89 for the judiciary, the European average is 42, Germany's even lower, Italy's even less given the number here, then you can think that, and I think you're wrong, and let me criticise that situation. Let me tell you that they're working too little. However, if they are not doing too little, I also allow the possibility that the problem is in procedural legislation. For example, no one in Europe knows the case, and we know it. Then the laws should be amended and the judicial investigation should be withdrawn and the police hearing should be valid, as is the case elsewhere in Europe, and the procedure for the relationship between the prosecution and the police. But when we suggest this, the judicial branch of power jumps up and says, "No, no, no, no, no, you know, we're not ready for that yet, we need more time to adjust." How much longer? This situation has been going on for 23 years! And here's the problem. So you can think what you think is okay, that numbers are not a problem. But they are, numbers are a problem if they make it far the least. In 2003, German Judge Dukoff, who was here at the time of the accession negotiations, pointed out this, when he said, "They care for their privileges, but they have nothing to do with their basic function." That's what he said. That's not what we said. You can defend them in 2013, please, but there is no argument for that. And there's something else we need to help the minister. Yeah, we're helping him. Our proposals go all the way towards ensuring greater control in the courts than in the insolvency administrators, and they go in the direction of amending the legislation to ensure this. Now the minister even says he's preparing it, the coalition, so you're worth it, but he's against it. Now who's pulling someone's nose? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u95	Of course, Mr Gorenak, at any time so far in all the governments you have had, you could do exactly what you are proposing now. This could have been done six months ago, you had all the time for a year, also to ensure everything Europe has said, and we could certainly have done it. It is no problem that we are today talking about the judicial branch of power, statistics, the number of records any judge had or any prosecutor had. The problem is the way we do it. We are exerting direct pressure on the judiciary without having any arguments for this without being allowed by the judiciary to tell us and explain, and without having a proposal that you are proposing here today. Mrs Majda Potrata read very precisely to you what your proposals were for conclusions, where you are talking about, "to find out the National Assembly that in the judicial branch of power is wrong..." and not to read that and not to say that. You'll read it again because you like to repeat it at least ten times and I don't know how many times. Of course, this is what the National Assembly found out. Newspaper articles? What are you talking about here today? Based on what you think you're sure of? Of course, I have the right to my own opinion. That is why I think it is right that we do not vote today and that we leave the judiciary to work. I'm glad he's working, you know. I'm glad she worked for your president, too, and that he finally accepted the verdict. I am glad that they have received judgment or that all those we know are condemned, and many others will be condemned. This is the main reason why we are here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u97	I have to say no again, Mr. Meh. However, Members are also allowed to talk nonsense and I have no influence on this. What you said at the beginning doesn't hold. When you said that our government could have arranged this in the previous year or before — that is not true. The recommendations referred to in this document for today's meeting shall bear the date of May 2013. May 2013! Since the Council of Europe or Europe did not start dealing with our justice until this year. Anyway, it's 23 years after there's no change. But it doesn't make sense because maybe I'll run into an even more difficult case of an MP and save myself some time. That's not what we suggested. It says something else here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Meh, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u99	Please do not allow in the National Assembly to speak abusively of the Member, this is unacceptable, and to prevent this. If anyone else is blabbing, it's his problem, I won't allow it. I spoke as I thought, and as I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u100	This, of course, was not a procedural proposal. I would ask that we are not offensive to each other and that we bring this meeting to an end in an unfavorable tone. The following is Mr Marijan Pojbič, followed by Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! I just can't believe I really can't believe that Social Democrats can so vehemently defend here in Parliament things that are unacceptable to most Slovenes and Slovenes. How they allow themselves to say such things! Ask, 80% of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are not satisfied with the functioning of the judiciary. And ladies and ladies of the Social Democrats allow themselves to claim that this meeting is unnecessary. I don't know what interest, my respectable colleagues, you speak from the Social Democrats or those gods from the sky or from the moon or Antarctica or where. Do you listen to what the Slovenian people say to you every minute of the day? Are you representatives of the Slovenian people or are you representatives of a narrow group of privileged people? Come on, please, clear this up once and say it very loud in front of the entire Slovenian public. What you are saying today is the undeniable fact that you are defending those 20% or even fewer people in this country, which in some part also goes to the judicial branch of power. You will never convince me that 80% of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are crazy, that they do not know where the problem is and what needs to be changed in this country so that it can function in a quality and normal way. Today, the Minister said, "The independence of the judiciary is crucial to the functioning of democracy in the country." This is absolutely true, this statement is true, I'm just asking you if this is true for our country. Does this apply to Slovenia? Certainly not, ask 80% of all citizens and citizens. The minister says, "There is an impression that something is wrong in the area of the functioning of the judicial branch of power." What impression? This is a fact, respected colleagues and colleagues, a fact that is once again irrefutable from all public opinion research. 80% of Slovenes and Slovenes say that this is a fact, and Mr. Minister – no matter what customer it comes from – lets himself claim that this is supposed to be an impression. Yes, by God, where these people live. If I only make a few more sentences. Look on the one hand at the connection, the meetings of judges and bankruptcy managers, the giving of gifts, the sharing of joys, the abnormal and immoral acceptance of the high awards of bankruptcy managers and other workers without any rights that remain without pay, regression and everything that belongs to them. Isn't that a disaster? Is this a legal state? Can Social Democrats in this way defend the rule of law? God have mercy on you. The answer to the impression that something is wrong in the area of the functioning of the judicial branch of power. I am convinced that this is the complete transfer of the Minister and the Ministry of Justice. It is the truth, and it is the only one, and it is the poor functioning and irresponsible functioning of the judicial branch of power, which has convinced people that there is no justice in court for a small man, but it is for thieves, bribers, networks and uncles, and it is for them. I ask you, what judgment on behalf of the people? Ask the Slovenian people how they feel about the judicial branch of power? Do they believe in a just and legal state? Mamilars, economic criminals are forgiven and innocents are convicted. Is this a legal state? Does Slovenia want such an independent and fair judiciary? Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is the sad truth of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and also the sad truth, personally, and I am ashamed to have in this Parliament a parliamentary group saying that this meeting of the National Assembly is unnecessary. Sad, respectable colleagues and colleagues. This denies the right of 80% of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am confident and I hope that God will be on the side of those who believe and work in the interests of the Slovenian people, each individual, but not for a narrow group of privileged, thieves, robbers, thieves. One day the real truth will come in this country and believe me, I want to, and I'm waiting for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor now. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. About an hour ago, we started by continuing the meeting because we were waiting for a government representative to arrive. Now I'm just asking you if there's anything new about the minister or if you might know why he left the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I've been informed that the Ministry's representatives are on their way to the National Assembly. That's why I'm continuing the session. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor. Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u105	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings to others who persist! A few debaters have mentioned that this meeting is unnecessary. Perhaps so, but in this case, I would expect the coalition to put in some kind of law that they would be happy to deal with dealing with the economic situation by resolving the bad part of the courts, by resolving the banking situation. However, there are no suggestions on your part, so it is also necessary to deal with the anomalies that we have in the system of courts, insolvency proceedings, insolvency proceedings. Previously it was said that the courts were not a problem. I agree with the speakers here. Courts aren't a problem, judges are a problem, they're individual judges, not all of them. Those who cause problems and who make some irregularities and then hide behind some system should also be warned. That is why this debate is necessary, not unnecessary. The talk was also about over-examining history and repeating certain things and that the legislation had improved and changed over this period. I agree with that, too, but the speaker forgot to say that the habits and practices of some unfortunately do not change. Despite the better law, the customs and customs of some bankruptcy administrators and judges, again I am talking about individual cases, remain the same and we want to discuss this today and point out this. No one has denied the things that are in the proposal for a debate. No one denied the newspaper articles that appeared. No one wondered how bankruptcy administrators and judges could teach the same things in joint lectures. No one wonders how many lawyers go to work so quickly for bankruptcy managers. However, you all agreed that bankruptcy abroad was something else and that it meant a new start for individual economic operators, but previously a colleague from the SD made it clear that a bankruptcy manager was conducting one bankruptcy procedure abroad. How many bankruptcy proceedings do bankruptcy managers run in our country? Some numbers also speak of 10 procedures per person. We may wonder whether such procedures can be of good quality. Very hard. In the past, we have talked about the fact that mayors and Members cannot perform any of the functions. However, the bankruptcy manager can carry out 5, 10, 15 bankruptcy proceedings and is apparently of quality in the opinion of the Chamber, which covers bankruptcy managers. Some of you have already found that a change of law does not solve such things. I agree here, too. A colleague mentioned earlier a law governing land debt. This law, too, has every reason to believe that the anomalies previously discussed can be sanctioned but not sanctioned and that is the problem. Also bankruptcy procedures – probably everyone around us knows good and bad practices, but if we want to take a step forward, we need to draw attention in the National Assembly to those anomalies that are emerging, to the bad procedures. This is the only way we can achieve better resolution of insolvency and bankruptcy procedures. Surely, though, we will not find a better solution to these matters simply by changing a marriage. Too often we're trying to solve an anomaly in a way that we're going to change some law at that point, but we're not asking ourselves what this anomaly means in the system. We're making a big mistake here. As I said, this Land Debt Act also has all the extensions to sanction the playing of this law, but lawyers, the judges do not use it. And here we are, as I said, on the fact that we are really changing legislation, most of the time following a rapid procedure, on the initiative of some who want to cover up certain things, but do not sanction bad habits and practices of some who are exploiting this system. That is why this debate is necessary, although some claim to be more important, and here I agree, but unfortunately the coalition does not process them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Since we have quite a few cancellations from the debate, Mr Jože Tanko is next. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we are talking about a subject that is quite painful for a lot of people, for some it is justified, but for some it is very unjustifiable, and because of any other conduct of bankruptcy proceedings the victim of the bankruptcy process has been subjected to. Don't blame him. Don't blame him. I think that in this area we should make a radical move forward in order for those who have caused bankruptcy to be, in some appropriate and sufficiently rapid manner, sanctioned so that bankruptcy proceedings can be carried out quickly enough to settle and prepare for work ahead of time because, in fact, not everything is to be broken down in these matters. It is obvious that there are major problems here, because in cases of bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy judges, it is one way or another for connected persons. The secretary of state may laugh too, but in this case, that's the point. In fact, we see that these connected persons have acted differently than usual as the legal culture, as stated in the legal order. Some in bankruptcy proceedings were either bankruptcy or as judges in a different situation and allowed because of the system, because of the coverage of the vertical and horizontal solutions, as would be optimal for the bankruptcy proceedings. I must say that we feel that there is no way in which we can check whether the procedure has been conducted in an optimal and appropriate manner. I think that in a number of procedures, especially because of the fact that there are also bankruptcyists among companies, this is not a credible decision and that many have come out of bankruptcy in a privileged way, while others have been unduly sunk and affected in this bankruptcy process. He was hurt alone, his company and his family. I must say that I am very surprised at the decision of the coalition and the Government, which, in its opinion, proposed that these recommendations, which we have proposed, should not be supported, and the coalition has followed this very uncritically and has also voted in favour. I must say that if the coalition Members had read at least the agreement on the cooperation of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Pensioners in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where you have on a few pages – because there is very little together – they would not have rejected the principles, priorities and values, but would have accepted them and perhaps supplemented them in the direction of faster procedures, faster improvements. I must also say that what you have done with our recommendations is not in line with the commitment signed by the Government and the Supreme Court. There has been a lot of writing about speeding up procedures, improving procedures, transparency, accountability and so on. None of this commitment is realized and it appears to have been signed just because the President of the Supreme Court in that story that took place in the spring remained in his office. That something in this system is wrong, there are also decisions or coverages for sound judgment and view of wrong decisions and major errors, both within the Chamber of Fusion Managers and the Personal Council of the Supreme Court. Even the President of the Supreme Court, if I am not mistaken, has participated in one of the decisions where some things have been covered. I do not think that this is good, certainly not good for justice and for regulating relations in this area. This clearly shows that there are no special ambitions to improve matters, either in the government or in the coalition. All you're suggesting, what you're predicting is actually just a step, in a way, we can also say a diversion, that the agenda point shifts or that some process, some process, some bad story amortizes in some way, and things stay the way they are. The Anti-Corruption Commission, which has a lot to do with some of the little things that it very much inflates, in these cases does not show any specific activity. I must say that justice is one story, which is very protected, very closed, and it is obvious that nothing can happen to anyone in this process. What comes to pass is that any action against the judge ends in the National Assembly, because the coalition in the National Assembly is the one that grants immunity to judges in judicial proceedings and stops proceedings. I think it's a lot of talk about how things are going to open up and clear up. When these practical matters arise, the necessary concrete decisions are all the more important reasons than what has been done. And protection is actually a very big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u108	Thank you, too. The next one has the word mag. Jana Jenka, but I don't see her in the hall. It is followed by Mrs Jasmina Opec, who is also not in the hall. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, you weren't here, and you didn't miss much. What we listened to in the morning from nine to one is now being restored in the replica. I must say that the motioner spent at least half of his debate on the bicycles received by the judge for the helmet, understanding the numbers, dinner, lunch, I don't know who and how – and we processed 2008. The requirement for breaks also stems from the fact that the applicants have made excellent progress and are tired. I think that also because of fatigue, some have asked for God's help, talked about 80% of the population who are against some parties and so on. I am sure that there will be no great benefits from this debate today. But it's pressure on justice. It's the pressure on justice! If we treat here by the names of the judge, the judges, the content of the case files, and so on, and demand a different decision, is that something other than pressure? But this pressure's been getting worse, we know it ever since. Ever since a high-ranking political person got a court decision. It's been bad ever since. Screaming here on the other hand that the bastards are on the loose, but the prisoners are innocent — where did we come from? Finally, they come to prison those who deserve to be imprisoned. Let's call them tycoons or whatever. And a lot of people are shaking their pants because it's their turn to go to jail. I believe and justify this justice system. This morning, Supreme Judge Vladimir Balažic gave a very precise and comprehensible explanation of some of the issues related to today's debate on how it is to be determined; which judge, who will be something, which bankruptcy administrator will be dealt with in which file and similar. But that doesn't help. we listen to seven, eight, nine hours of the same thing, and I am sure, colleagues and colleagues, that next week we have some new gift of the opposition waiting for us to waste time instead of solving what is absolutely necessary in this country: economic problems, legislation that is linked to young people's work in order to meet the European Union with the issues they demand. That's all. Here I have an overview of the state of justice in the European Union for 2010 and so on View these graphs, look at them and you will see where we are. [[...]] In the middle of gold, in most cases even in better places than other important European countries. We are not satisfied with the justice system as a whole, but our expectations are also different because the Minister has announced some new laws that will regulate matters more precisely. I'm sorry for the time we have today. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u110	Thank you, too. The next one to be discussed is the Government, but they have given up the debate by giving my word to the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz, you were talking about tiredness. There is no fatigue on this side, we can continue until tomorrow morning, but the rules of procedure do not allow us. Now that we've got a split, you'll see who's tired. You'll all sign up for the debate, then you'll cancel, and on this side they'll discuss. So much for tiredness. You're also talking about how in the National Assembly we talk to the names and surnames of the judges. What's wrong with talking to names and surnames? Are those the gods? No, they're not. They are not gods, they have exactly the same status as Members, so they are officials. If the public is talking about us and talking about all the other officials, about the Prime Minister, about any minister they can spit on, and everyone is doing it — especially if you're a minister, you're interesting — then we can talk about the names and surnames of the judges. We are one of the few countries where the internal rules of the court prohibit us from recording them. So you have footage from the courtrooms — which ones do we see? When lawyers and prosecutors talk to each other before the hearing, then they have to go out. You can't take pictures of a judge. You can't take pictures of a judge. Who are these gentlemen? Why shouldn't I paint a person who judges on behalf of the people? So, judge on behalf of the people, issue judgment on the name of the people, but the people of this face cannot see. This is not the case in Slovenia, but only in Serbia, that we are not talking about Western Europe. There is no reason not to mention these people with names and surnames, because they are the same people and are free, according to Dr. Virant, the "servicers" of the country. This was clearly said to be a service for citizens and nothing else, and so why not talk about them. So much for that. I am pleased that we have done the debate today as we have done. I also believe that it was not the last, even though according to the number of coalition performers, it is difficult for some to listen. But it is only right that we hold such discussions and pour ourselves some pure wine. So far, I've been talking about some numbers, these numbers are from 2010. It must also be said that in the coalition we have always stressed, in the absence of the minister, that we wanted to make conclusions – what? The conclusions go only in the direction of the stated need of the National Assembly for the Government to prepare legislative changes. The minister on the committee said he was preparing a series of laws, but now the question arises why the coalition is not prepared to adopt such decisions. Yes, what we did is nothing but give some support, start or whatever you want, to the government, minister, to prepare it. No, you voted no, so there will be no, and at the end of this session, as you know, there will be no vote. Because I still have a few minutes of time before, I was talking about statistics that Mr Branislje and I had then somehow reconciled in the end. [[...]] These figures related to 2010 and were vague data for judges and prosecutors. Therefore, allow me, because we are talking about responsibility in the judiciary, this was also one of the purposes of the session to draw attention to the failure to exercise responsibility between judges and insolvency administrators. This is one of the purposes, to draw attention to this matter, and the Minister also intends, as I know, to cut down, as he said, with his proposals for laws. Let me remind you once again, this information that I now state that no one will say that I spoke different data at the same meeting – I repeat that I mentioned earlier the information concerning prosecutors and judges in 2010. The data I have before me are unfortunately related to 2006, but they are accurate because they are data from the European Union and speak of the responsibility we are demanding. See, the number of sanctions imposed against judges and prosecutors, this is a common information, yet common information; 26 in Austria, Italy 51, Germany 25, Slovenia 1, in 2006. Prosecutors, if we go to prosecutors only: Austria 0, Italy 15, Germany 4, Slovenia 2. Disciplinary procedures and fines imposed on thousands of judges, this is more intelligent because it is better information because it is more objective: in Austria 22, Italy 68, Germany 55 and Slovenia 1. In Slovenia 1, it is said, there is no responsibility. But it's information for thousands of judges or prosecutors. Prosecutors, introduced procedures Austria 0, Italy 24, Germany 26, Slovenia 2. Judges passed sanctions: Austria 26, Italy 51, Germany 25, Slovenia 1. Let's move on. Prosecutors: Austria 0, Italy 15, Germany 4, Slovenia 2. And what I repeat is the next time we have a vote on what permanent term for a judge, I think it shows us to consider how we vote. In fact, what we say is let the matter go through, give a permanent mandate, the court hires someone and we have them. But, my dears, there are 22 judges per 100,000 inhabitants in Austria, 11 in Italy, 24 in Germany, and 50 of us. 50! It is said, four times more than in Italy, once more than in Germany and a little more than once in Austria. Why, then, do we continue to employ judges if there are more than once now than anywhere else, and especially compared to Italy, four times as many. But we're still working, aren't we? Prosecutors – there are about so many prosecutors as well; there are 2.6 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants in Austria, 3.8 in Italy, 6.2 in Germany, and 9. So, to Austria, four times as many. Four times as many as Austria! And what these people do in 2006, we'll see. We can take a closer look at what they do to the 2010 I mentioned earlier. In Austria, these people, prosecutors, received 2,000 800 files, in Italy a thousand 317, in Germany 967 and in Slovenia 519. According to this, the prosecution's membership in Austria is 2,000 800 files per prosecutor, and we have 519. So six times more files are received by the Austrian prosecutor, six times more files. Now let's look at the efficiency. The Austrian prosecutor writes 353 indictments. 353! It means that every day of the year he writes at least one act if we know he has 365 days or as many as he has. Italian writes 257 acts, German 234 and Slovenian, you will not believe 71. If we again make a comparison between Austria, which is most effective, and us, the Austrian prosecutor writes five times more indictments than ours. The data is for 2006. I said earlier that there would be no discrepancy in the minutes for 2010, the data was 89. So, between 2006 and 2010, our prosecutors made progress, with 71 coming up with 89 indictments. That's solid progress. You will not believe that Mrs Brezigar was the Attorney-General's Attorney-General at the time of this progress. However, it will be interesting to see Mr Fisher – and we will be able to assess this later. Whatever we are talking about the independence of the judiciary and everything else we have heard, it is necessary to make it very clear, at least as far as the party I belong to is concerned; the independence of the judiciary – yes, it is not a normal country without it. Without that, there is no normal country, at least some Western European type that we belong to. Absolutely, but the problem is not independence, the distortions of discipline are not independence, the bad work is not independence, the established writings are not independence, the walking on the market in business time is not independence, entertainment is not a matter of independence, the gifts in the form of bicycles and helmets are not a matter of independence. This is mainly due to the judge’s dependence on the bankruptcy manager. Here we must help the Minister and give him firm support, he will have it as long as he is on this path to bring these changes into law. I see that unfortunately there is no coalition support. I hope that there will be support at least when there is a need to vote for any law that goes in this direction. We can no longer tolerate the fact that under this story that judges call it independence, you cannot even record them. It says that the judgment is on behalf of the people, but the people who pay twice as much as in Germany must not see this person's face. You know, they should also be told that these judicial rules are likely to have to be amended. They are paid by citizens, they work for citizens, and these citizens should not see who they are and what they look like. Yeah, where did we see that? It is right to take decisive action in this area, and it is right for the Minister to propose laws that will go in this direction. The Minister will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u112	Thank you, too. I take it you've got the word of everyone who's been reported to the debate. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. I understand that there is a wish, and as soon as the system is ready, I will also invite you to report. I'm asking you to sign up. Wait a minute, you'll have five minutes to discuss it. Can we get started? So, five minutes each debater has the floor, and the first one has the word Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we have heard several times from coalition Members that this meeting is not necessary and that we should deal with other measures necessary to regulate the situation. Other measures would also be dealt with, but unfortunately these other measures are not proposed. For months in July, the government has prepared a list of 123 draft laws to be proposed to the National Assembly, done so by its own discretion and choice, and to all those who deny that we do not deal with the right issues in the National Assembly, I suggest that you ask the Government's question of where the laws should be dealt with in the National Assembly. From this program, the government is extremely small. Here, too, it has been said that many laws will be submitted from the area under consideration today. The Minister has 13 laws written, and some or some of them have already come to the National Assembly and we have dealt with it, but there is nothing in this list of 13 laws from the area that we are dealing with now, in the area of insolvency. So, those issues about how we are trying to improve something in this area are not true and I regret that some of them, as serious Members, are discussing in a direction that is not based on the normative programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would be very pleased if the Government proposed in these areas, which we find problematic, that matters are not working – and the area of bankruptcy proceedings, the works of bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy judges, is certainly not well regulated and does not work well. Not only is there material for our session, but there is also a lot of other evidence that these things do not take place transparently, that there is a suspicion that they are not even going properly, that there is a suspicion that certain processes of significant bankruptcy of important companies are not being conducted in a transparent, quality and orderly manner. I must say, I am very surprised that the Government has not supported these very well-meaning recommendations that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party towards this item in the agenda. I think it's actually a big problem that we don't even recommend that we get to know each other's friends. We have received the material, all the annexes — that someone has the rivet, that even the conclusion that he has received the material does not really support it! It means that we act extremely ostensibly ostensibly, that we do not want to see certain things, and that it is clearly the intention of the coalition to do everything possible to ensure that these things continue in such an unworthy, inappropriate way. That even another amendment, when we proposed or wrote down that the National Assembly notes that certain proceedings under bankruptcy law and the Judicial Service Act are poorly regulated, do not support, I am surprised. I am also surprised by the Government's view that it does not support this, because, after all, in the opening presentation, even the Minister himself said that some of the things in this area, or many of the things in this area, do not work well and that they are flawed that I do not stress further. After all, I think that in the area of responsibility of all those working in this sensitive area, a step forward should also be taken. All too often, some things end up in the National Assembly, where, in the cases of certain charges of judges, immunity to judges is voted on and the proceedings are automatically blocked. I think in just two cases, one Mr. Škobrne and one judge from Kopra voted [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u114	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u115	I'm not going to fix you. You probably don't know why yet. Look, I'll say it anyway. I'm going to go back a little bit to make it easier for some people to understand. In the previous country, we had some untouchable. Absolutely some untouchable, especially policies that have also invented a verbal delicacy and have therefore been prohibited from talking about them. But if you said anything, you could get a prison sentence. That's how they protected themselves. If we take the situation of the former country, we've always said comrade judge, comrade, I don't know who else he was, but we've always said, "Mr. Doctor." Why did we say that? Because they created some kind of authority, because they somehow affect our health, etc. And they kept this title, sir, but not by any regulation, they kept it on the basis of some authority they had established. In the last 20 years, this authority has ended up at a historical wastebasket. It is not untouchable in this country, and I agree with what the gentlemen back there from the SD have said that they are not present in this country and that they must not be untouchable. And the doctors from today, given what happened on the Igo, are no longer. We can see that. Let's just say it's the same thing, whatever we think about that judgment. We can also have different opinions. In this country, however, we still have a group of people, and this is a judgment that is untouchable. It is also right that the judiciary becomes sensitive, not with any pressure on them, not with any desire to influence politics or to know who to judge, but in a purely legal way. The legal way is that the legislative branch of power, we're sitting here, does the operation because the operation is necessary, because aspirin and cedevita are no longer enough. An operation is needed in the translated sense of the word, which can only be carried out in a way that the Minister proposes appropriate legislation, even if it were two-thirds – he would be very happy because it would also be very effective – and in this way, in the judiciary, we also establish a normal state in order for the system to work in order to make the European system comparable, both by the number of employees, by the conduct and by the costs of the Slovenian human being for the justice system. It's not like that today. We must lead to a situation like that in Europe and nothing else. The aim of the SDS is also nothing less than that one will still point to a judgment that has taken place. In 2008, no judgment took place, and in 2009, no, 2010 and 2012, but I and we have already warned about this in 2008 with some meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly or the National Assembly. In a way, I am pleased, on the one hand, that the Minister is today showing some will to make a difference. The funny thing is that he has more support in the opposition than in the coalition or what it looks like, given the conclusions you didn't want to support. But that's the situation. Our aim is to ensure the normal functioning of justice with a European comparable number of judges, but about once less than now, the European comparable number of prosecutors and the European comparable money we give Slovenians for this. Instead of 98 euros, as I said, every citizen at the annual level for the functioning of justice is about 45, as they put everywhere else in Europe, and nothing less. That's the right thing to do. I think we've given this an effective warning. I hope the judges heard us, people heard us, the coalition didn't hear us. There may need to be another session on this subject, but the situation is improving. The situation is improving, and I believe that we can at least talk about it today, but it was forbidden to talk about it in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u116	Thank you, too. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, my apologies for using the wrong title when I gave you my word. The next debater is Mr Marko Pavlisic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Gorenak, a few more points for you when you asked so nicely for them. Friends in bankruptcy, friends in privatization, friends in arms are briefly friends in crime, in crime against the state and citizens. And the result? Throwing tax money into companies under the cover of maintaining healthy cores instead of solving healthy cores through appropriate bankruptcy procedures. However, appropriate and fair bankruptcy procedures would require professional and hard work for the same payment as can be agreed at a dinner or garden party. Friends in privatisation, whose result is bank balance sheets and accounts issued to all taxpayers. The result is paide capitalism, which was not a coincidence, only the realization of the plan of individuals who saw in time the importance of transition and their place in it. I understand this meeting as the foretold use of all political means for a certain purpose, but I am not angry about it. On the contrary. In fact, all political means should be used to combat crimes against the state and citizens. The lost afternoon in the National Assembly is nothing compared to the lost decades of generations. I can't help feeling that all the skeletons are now falling out of the closet just because millions have begun to run out, that the desires continue to divide them. "Shall and reign" is a famous river, but the appetites of individuals are immeasurable and slowly diminishes the prey for distribution. And that's the reason for all these affairs. Unfortunately, there is no reason for us to start acting more consciously. Unfortunately, the reason is much more banal: the prey is running out. However, this must be seen as an opportunity for us to adopt solutions at the height of the financial crisis that will lay sound foundations for the future. In the fiscal area, it's a golden fiscal rule. However, in the area of insolvent legislation and the functioning of justice, I am pleased that Dr. Pulčanič can continue his work in the previous government because he is already slowly squeezing the results. This is also the answer to the question of whose Mr Minister is. Obviously, we all love him, but he also has confidence in us that he will do his work perfectly without the encouragement and conclusions of this House. If we have had a feeling in previous times that only chicken thieves are being pursued, this feeling is changing today. Of course, the government and ministers are appointed politically, so that the transfer of ministers from government to government is not exactly to be expected, but a little more continuity in individual projects would be very desirable. I believe that outside Slovenia there is often a problem to understand how in three years the approach to privatisation or crisis resolution can be replaced four times, even though government exchanges are common among them. To go back to my friends in bankruptcy. There were too many coincidences with a clear agenda to agree on the thesis of coincidences. It was more likely to be a cesovo action, where it lays down its rules in its interest and, of course, a cesovo-controlled system can work well if it is subject to moral rules and common values. I believe that not all members of the show are weak, but I believe that most are good, but if they are not able to clean up their species in order to act in accordance with our common values, external intervention is necessary. If the qualities in question are capable, let him show them as soon as possible, if not, let it be quiet when someone else arranges them for him. Of course, it is a question of whether Members have the right to moralise on other matters if we are not prepared to settle our own. A package to clean up a policy called Mr. Musculo fell. The principle of a reference vote, which would actually enable voters to have a decisive impact on the election of a specific Member or Member of Parliament, is stuck in a drawer. How many Members prefer principles to client instructions? Your own mind before a client's discipline? And yet our citizens must still listen to that they spent more than they created, and they have done everything in their power. They sent LDS and Really to the history dump when they deserved it. They sent the SDS to the opposition when, throughout the mandate, it did not take a step forward in transparent privatisation and the necessary structural reforms. They punished the SD when Pahor's government reacted to the global financial crisis as if it were putting out fires with gasoline. No, the citizens did not spend more than they created, at least not most of them. They used the kidnappers of this country, who took advantage of the citizens' trust in their own interests. Citizens are the bright spot of this country. Citizens recognize and respond appropriately to harmful acts. That is what we must do, and that must be done by the judiciary. The justice system works, there is progress, and nothing will harm if the pace is further improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u118	Thank you, too. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! To be an anonymous judge, it's pure manipulation that doesn't hold. Indeed, they do not often appear in the media, especially in the yellow press. In Idria, for example, we know all the judges and judges because they are among us every day and are part of our daily routine. If I am not mistaken, only drawings and drawings are allowed in the United States during court hearings. So there's no photographing, filming, anything like that. Otherwise, we are also thoroughly taught about all judges and judges in the National Assembly. This is discussed by the Mandate-Election Commission, which is finally decided at the plenary session of the National Assembly and we are thoroughly informed about each candidate and every candidate for judge in the Republic of Slovenia. What Mr Gorenak said earlier is pure manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u121	Thank you, President. Minister, it's nice to finally meet you. It is a pity that you have not been among us for the entire session because I think that the support of the opposition you have received today can only be dreamed of by other ministers. Why did I take another word for it? I have asked you a number of questions at the meetings of my mother's working body as well as at the meeting of the National Assembly. If you are not willing or able to respond to them today, you might ask for a written answer once in a while. It's about control first. According to the current principle or legislation, the Chamber of Fusion Managers is the one who supervises its bankruptcy managers. So, bankruptcy managers control themselves. It's over, but it's like this. I am interested in how you intend to change this fact that these controls will be more transparent and, above all, more effective. There is indeed a fact that a minister has certain controls, but he must go through so many procedures that they are interrupted in the meantime and there is no matter at all to the Minister. That's the first thing. Second thing. I've already asked you at the board meeting to give me a number on how many permits the previous ministers have taken away from the bankruptcy administrators and how many times have the Justice Ministers taken advantage of the possibility not to grant permission to act as a bankruptcy manager? If there is a number at the Ministry, it would probably be very necessary and very interesting. Third. I would like to know what other measures are envisaged to make our legislation finally more similar to the average of the European Union. I think that the conclusions or recommendations in this direction have gone in order for the opposition to help you. But the coalition has apparently concluded that you don't need the opposition. I am interested in rejecting today's decisions on the committee in the context you have adopted with the judiciary – this is a commitment to the judiciary – whether you have written down anywhere that the opposition should not talk about justice. For their words, when they speak of this, are used immediately for daily political reckonings. One very personal question: whether you support a purely independent judiciary or just its inviolability. Because today, there has been quite a bit of talk about the inviolability of the judiciary, that whenever anyone answers, we get caught up in their inviolability. But I think those who said that forget that there is also the notion of independence. Why am I saying this? Perhaps the coalition Members do not know, but I hope that at least you, as Minister, are still bound by the coalition agreement, which says that greater transparency, simplification and efficiency of insolvency and bankruptcy procedures are ensured by strengthening the position of creditors in these procedures and by more effective supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers. In short, Minister, I expect your steps to be taken in this direction, although I must say that I highly doubt that you have no support in the coalition, but the coalition is the one that has the majority, and even at the end of the adoption of laws. Let me finish. The rejection of the recommendations that we have made in the SDS Group shows the relationship between the coalition and justice, particularly the current problems, especially in the field of the economy. And because the bankruptcy judiciary does not function as it should, the economy suffers, especially the creditors. Today I received several calls, texts and Facebook during the session, what are the concrete cases, and I said, like my coalition colleague, that I will not use them in the epics, but all these creditors ask that once the legislation be made in a way that will benefit the creditors, not the bankruptcy administrators. Once again, not all bankruptcy managers are the same, but among these 147, which are bankruptcy managers, it is a very surprising fact that the computer system is the one that expels the bankruptcy manager, who then destroys the creditor at the end of this creditor, and we must not allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u122	Thank you, too. The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm glad the minister's with us. Indeed, my debate will be based on an opinion given to me by one of the lawyers facing bankruptcy proceedings, and it has reminded me that — for those who feel that today's debate is not important, economists and lawyers say that if we want to shed legal light on all the shortcomings, there would be a few hours of debate in the National Assembly. But I'll rely on his evidence. Indeed, in insolvency proceedings it is mainly for businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. It speaks of companies where this insolvency has not been proven to be due to the undeclared work or even criminal acts of the management or owners, but it has been the case for companies, in particular those which have not been paid as subcontractors, mainly in construction and, unfortunately, even in cases where the non-payments of the institution or the company is owned by the State. These companies often had very large wealth, both in machines, appliances, and real estate, and they were leased from lease houses. These house leasings were, of course, taken away from these shareholders at the time a company became insolvency. And then what happens? Lease houses repay their debts to these debtors, this property or movable property sold at very favourable prices to connected companies. What happens next? Some wonder if this is also a matter of friendly relationships. In fact, bankruptcy managers do not show that this firm, which is insolvent, is liable for any leasing of the house because the debtor considers that it has settled its obligation to leasing the house. However, the bankruptcy managers, by agreement with the leasing of houses, have in fact shown this property once again as a debt to this insolvency debtor. The story also points to what Mr Pavlisic may have said earlier, friends in crime – judges are hiding colleagues and these friends. And let me conclude my debate with the thought which has been published in one of the contributions in the diary, namely: "For greed and swallowing there are numbers and names, and whosoever repents of the wicked, it harmeth the good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u124	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In my opinion today we are talking about one of the most pressing problems of the Slovenian state and Slovenian society concerning many people, many who have not only lost all rights in bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings, but also a lot of money, if not even property. Why? First of all, because we have bad legislation. Legislation, which is complex, is not good legislation that does not effectively solve individual problems and is not for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Secondly, because bankruptcy procedures and bankruptcy managers are slow to work and because they benefit from all of the legislative options, including delaying procedures for more than five years and nothing actually happens. For example, when you were not here, I was talking about the fact that when a real estate sale takes up to five years, only if someone complains about every decision issued by the court and so on. And of course also because there are many connections in Slovenia between bankruptcy managers, owners, bankers and bankruptcy judges or between courts. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised by the indolence of some, if not even arrogance, when you say it's a waste of time. This afternoon is lost. Nothing will happen to this afternoon. The Minister didn't miss anything, you already know what you're doing, and after all, the National Assembly minimizes and says you already know what you're going to do. For me, ladies and gentlemen, this is a complete confusion and indolence. We are Members, voters and voters have the right to know. If not the others, we must tell them what is wrong and what must be better. So I'm surprised by some of the views of colleagues when they think about how we lost this afternoon, how it's not important, what's being said here, how you just put your head in the sand. The view of some that the justice system works poorly, but at least it works, including that view, is worrying. In fact, if it works badly, it works poorly, and at least citizens and citizens have the lowest harm. The state is not for causing harm to citizens and citizens. That is why such a government policy is when, on the one hand, it does not propose measures and on the other hand, it speaks of the fact that, after all, it is not good, the policy of ruins and chaos. There is no resolution of insolvency proceedings, there is no rescue of businesses, there is no resolution of banks, there is no resolution of bad credits, and there is uncertainty among citizens, and it shows that the government is melting in the darkness, which, ladies and gentlemen, means a path to ruin, ruin and destruction. It therefore calls for something to be done in these areas, useful and for the benefit of citizens and citizens, but it is not a waste of time. If the opposition were to point out this, it would point out that the state would not go into ruin and collapse and that people would not be desperate because of such a policy as ruled by Alenka Bratušek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u126	Thank you, too. As the final debater, Minister Senko Plitčanič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u127	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me briefly tell you some of my concluding thoughts, in particular, I will try to answer Mr Lisc's question, whether I stand only for independence or for the inviolability of the judiciary. I can only repeat what I said in my previous implementation, and also what I have always said when I am in Parliament. So, I stand by myself for the independence of the judiciary, because we all have to stand up for it. You yourself have found, in particular Mr Gorenak, who I have previously heard, that this is one of the fundamental postulates of modern democracy. I have said in my own implementation that not only is one of the fundamental postulates in modern democracy but it is only the heart of democracy. If we don't have an independent judiciary, then we can't talk about democracy and then a situation happens quickly that we don't want when people take over instead of the right government. We don't want that, we want the rule of law. And to ensure the rule of law is the functioning of the judiciary, and this independent functioning of the judiciary is crucial. Of course, at the same time, I am in favour of this – because it is even funny to talk about taking over, this is in itself understandable – that judges as public officials are in the same position as all the other public officials who are financed are financed by taxpayers, which means that they must be equally aware of the responsibilities they have before Slovenian citizens and citizens. I have said several times, even earlier in my initial implementation, that there has been a lot of change in the judiciary lately, I hope to say that, even because of my work, of course, especially because they have learned in the court that only things have to change and lead matters towards greater efficiency and greater speed. Statistics prove that, Mr. Tanko. Since statistics have been very encouraging in recent months, I hope that some part of this has also been contributed by the commitment of the Government and the judiciary to Slovenian citizens and citizens that we will jointly reduce judicial proceedings. So that all the work in this government and even in the previous government, my work, has some effect on the reduction of court proceedings. However, I have already said, and I can only say again that too little has been done when it comes to the issue of greater transparency and greater personal responsibility in the judiciary. I have also said what I intend to propose myself, and I will also do what I can as Minister to propose legislative changes that will address this issue better than have been addressed so far. Even though I will propose this, and I am sure that the Slovenian government will accept this and that Parliament will accept it, then the main issue of implementing this in practice is still. The implementation of this in practice, as in all other matters, is at the hands of the judiciary itself. And once again, I appeal to all the present, opposition and coalitions to try, as far as possible, to overcome any other differences that you have between you and all of us, because otherwise we will not be able to achieve. Nothing helps us to beat each other up, it's important that we step together, come up with the right legislative solutions. As it is said, that is not enough, only if we step together, then in the judiciary will there be some different energy than it has been so far, and then implementation will be as different as it has been before. I'm sure it's a fundamental condition, otherwise there won't be any movement, but we can change a hundred laws. Just for a little while, Mr. Fox. We will prepare a written answer to all the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-01-SDZ6-Izredna-44.ana.u128	Thank you, too, Minister. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009, I note that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good night!
