ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Jasmina Opec, mag. Katarina Hočevar from 14:00 on, Mr Borut Ambrožič and Mr Janez Ribič from 13:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interpellation on the work and responsibilities of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant. We continue with the debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Mr Jožef Horvat is next reported for discussion on behalf of the proposer. But get ready, mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to you all. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with coworkers! In order to get in touch with yesterday's debate, I must first express my great disappointment that yesterday the last two discussers by the coalition simply could not accept the definition of the Slovenian Constitution or more precisely Article 118 of the Constitution, which has the title of interpolation. Does the coalition really want to silence the opposition? Perhaps, dear colleagues and colleagues, no one in Slovenia wants to have the same situation as we have in Ukraine right now. We probably don't want that, and we probably don't want the government or the state council to work in a conspiracy. [[..]] Mr Minister, I wish today to have concrete answers to specific questions. I asked you very carefully yesterday if you ever received or bought airline tickets with a special discount from Adrie Airways? I know my family is the world, I know your family is the world, so I'm not going to ask about your family, but I'm only going to ask about you. You're the minister, you're the vice president of this government. Yesterday, during the debate, a plasma of essays was launched, which I received from the region or all of Slovenia. One of the mayors of Prekmurje, who has more than 5,000 inhabitants, writes: "Virant has abolished 13 local offices in one year in Prekmurje. In Pomura, the administrative unit Gornja Radgona and Ljutomer are being abolished, the administrative unit Lendava will have limited powers, the administrative unit Murska Sobota will be the administrative district. That's the intention. The process runs counter to the challenges of the referendum on the establishment of landscapes. By closing the post office," which is none of your business, Minister, "this government is centralising the country at all levels." That's my point, too. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u3	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Bible says, "The last will be the first and the first will be the last." This is going to happen slowly. The Bible says something else: “Do not resist the wicked one, but if anyone strikes you in the right face, he will set his left. The one who hits you on one face, set up another. And whoever wants to take away your coat doesn't defend his clothes." Why did I say that? Because the Church is the most successful institution with two thousand years of history and because the Bible is the main proponents of interpretation, for New Slovenia — Christian Democrats, a kind of commitment. And I think that the perceptions of the interpellation candidates regarding the work of Minister Virant as compared to his achievements are marginal. The party that proposed the interpolation obviously does not operate according to its name, Christian democracy, but otherwise. Because if we did, we'd set up another face. And if Mr Virant's actions are painful, unpleasant, and his actions in the last ten years are harmful, we should bear this humbly. That's what the Bible teaches. And we must have expected that, Mr Virant, and also some of us. His achievements are great, let me just say some. Bureaucrat. Slovenia is one of the world's least liberalised countries. While there are warnings from abroad that in order for Slovenia to become a successful country, red tape should be reduced as the first problem at all levels, too extensive and unclear legislation. The second problem is high taxes and thirdly inadequate labour legislation. And let's leave these readings and analyses abroad, and we know that we have "a completely non-biocratic state". The ten-year work of Minister Virant has therefore given birth to "rich fruits" – we are a non-bureaucratic state. That's the first achievement. The second achievement is that we have a very small public sector. If we move on to numbers and stop babbling, we can see that, for example, Austria has 12.8% of the working population in the public sector. Slovenia has 17.3%, which is, say and write, 35% more. Of course, why don't we have them, because we have 2- to 3-fold more GDP than Austria! Am I wrong? That's the second achievement. In Switzerland, for example, this relationship is even more favourable, in favour of the thin and successful public sector. Two or three days ago, we received from Bern a dispatch from our embassy, and I want us to get to know the content as well. The dispatch says that the foreign minister of Switzerland, Didier Burkhalter, also became the president of the country, is also the Prime Minister after the Swiss stop and will remain the foreign minister. Three functions are performed in Switzerland, which has 8 million inhabitants, and in Slovenia we have three people for one job in Switzerland. It's also Gregor Virant's "success." Great! Those of us who have been saying for some time now that the public sector and the bureaucratic sector need to be reduced are not even heard, let alone something is going on. The consequences, of course, are catastrophic. We have about 160,000 employees in the public sector and 40% of the state budget – this percentage even increases – is about salaries in the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, raising taxes and increasing the bureaucratic and public sector will not lead us to the path we have set for ourselves to become another Switzerland. For another Switzerland, it will have to start working differently. And those who have brought this country into this state cannot be the subject of a solution. They're just the source of the problem. Therefore, I think that it is necessary to look at what is actually going on very unburdened and insensitively. What's going on, I wrote myself in April 2013 in the book Why has Slovenia bankrupted?, and among the six causes is also written by bureaucratic killers. No one threw these away. We literally killed this country because we don't understand where new value is being created. Not in the bureaucratic sector, but in the economic sector. Now I'm asking the interpellations who will not succeed in any way. Why not? Because before that, she needed Gregor Virant's previous position. Without Gregor Virant, the government would probably fall. Now he needs this one, even though he knows it's working badly. He knows. Most Members and Members of the Chamber are deeply convinced that their actions are harmful. Now I'm gonna put the thesis on it. Do you feel that this country must be a victim for such immature behavior? We're hostages, you're hostages. Could it be very unburdened to look at the numbers and facts and what the current position was saying when Gregor Virant was in his previous position, of course, at the beginning of the acts? Ladies and gentlemen, we will not have different results in the same way. We're not coming. And yet I expect us to start doing things differently. In fact, Gregor Virant has the status of a deity in Slovenia. About as well as North Korean leaders. And about that is where Slovenia goes, where North Korea is. He's in debt, he's a judge, and he's a slave. He was for Jankovic, he was for Janša, he was for Stepišnik, of course he was for Truda Cinderella, he was for his client colleagues – Pezdirja, Šiha, Šuštersič and, of course, not least for my trifle. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Why? Because we don't know how to focus and look the truth in the eye. Because we are not acting like statesmen, but we are putting our present benefits of government ahead of our own. But I think it would be good to listen not to the chatter, but to the arguments that are gathered in this book and no one has thrown them away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u5	Thank you. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, prepare Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the specificities of this debate that we are having in the debate on the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I see these specialities in that they are not only visible at this point of the agenda, but we also meet them at the work of the National Assembly. For we often argue with things that are not yet, with visions and concepts, about laws that are not yet adopted, we have an investigative commission dealing with a treaty that has never been adopted and so on. There is a need to discuss concepts, but it is trying to put them at the level of decisions already taken and it is controversial with people, in particular with political officials, as if these decisions had already been taken. Another time. I have always understood interpretation as actually asking questions about the work of a government or individual minister, but in particular in cases where this minister did not respect legislation or government documents adopted. In the case of Dr. Virant, we have a specific situation because he is trying to interpret it because of the laws drawn up by his ministry, which were confirmed by the Government and adopted in the National Assembly. It seems to be intertwined for things that have received some broad political support. And this is an unusual situation. It is clear that the so-called democratic minority is not capable of making decisions that are being made in a parliament that operates on the basis of democratic principles of the majority and the minority. Third time. Yesterday there was a great deal of talk about congregation issues. Minister Virant spoke publicly about the issue of the number of municipalities, the abolition and the association of municipalities, but he also talked in essence about the positions we have in the coalition. However, there is no government decision, no law and no strategy on what will actually happen to the municipalities in the future. We have been warned and his response to the interpolation has clearly stated that the Government has the task of preparing its ministry's strategy for the reform of local self-government. It is said that last day we used again to discuss and argue about an idea that is not yet in the form of law or any other binding document, either on the parliamentary benches or in the general public. We also had the opportunity to see interesting pictures from one of the smaller Slovenian municipalities. These were mainly pictures of renovated small buildings and the preservation of the old cultural landscape in the municipality. I regret that we did not have the opportunity to see pictures of a new large school built in the congregation about a large firehouse built in this small congregation, all of which reflect the great abilities of people who have run this congregation in the past and have in fact proved to know, on the basis of the system of local self-government and the opportunities afforded by European funds, that they actually care for the development of their congregation. These pictures pointed to another Slovenian problem. At the same time, colleagues asked why this idyllic situation in the municipality – and in a large number of other smaller municipalities in Slovenia – should have been changed if we had seen that these municipalities were in the past very capable of drawing on European funds. I agree that some congregations have indeed been able to do so. I would point out, however, that the way of funding from the various development funds in the European Union is changing in the future financial perspective. Less funding for the reconstruction of village cores and more funding for priority projects, which are, as is now predicted, major projects. And instead of discussing how to stay with the old and how not to change anything in our local self-government, I think we should discuss how to adapt to the new situation, the new decisions of the European Union on these major priority areas where the funds will come into the two major development funds so that they can draw on them. It is 2.5 billion or more, and these resources will have to be drained by some new form of local self-government. What I miss in the debates of our proponents, who were very interested in their performances yesterday, and Members and Members have almost left us without a word. We have been waiting a long time for a word, from yesterday to today, after many hours of discussion. What I expected from them in these gallbladder efforts was that if they were already politicising the idea of reducing the number of municipalities, they would offer us a new idea of restructuring local self-government that would be able to draw more effectively on European funds in the future. One of the candidates' performances also mentioned that it would be appropriate to revive municipal administrations or reduce the number of members of municipal administrations. Regrettably, then, the applicants did not discuss this issue in more detail and added nothing to it. I think that this is one of the reasonable proposals that will need to be considered in the future, because I find it inappropriate to argue with the fact that the law states that Slovenian municipalities should be established on the basis of 5,000 citizens and citizens as a numerical criterion for their existence. We have this number criterion, with which colleagues have disputed yesterday, even in the public debate there have been a lot of these controversy, but this number criterion has already been adopted, it is already an integral part of the legislation. What we need to ask ourselves is how to comply with legislation in this area. How, then, can we approach the legislation that spoke of a certain number of criteria regarding the size of the congregations? And perhaps we should also discuss how to add additional new criteria. And it is likely that this criterion, which the proponents suggested, has been summarised by the Italian changes in local government – that is to say, to consider changing, reducing members or employees in municipal administrations – is useful. Of course, the other feature of this Italian idea or the reforms of local self-government in order to keep the mayors and the municipal councils, therefore local self-government in terms of local decision-making, is not affected, and changes are professional structures that then apply in practice. The fourth point that the proponents pointed out in a written document, and later in their oral performances, they did not say much about it, is linked to the criticism of the agreements signed by the minister with the unions. I think that each government has worked this way so far, and the government of Alenka Bratušek has certainly acted in such a way that the Minister did not sign these agreements on his own initiative and will, but was the chief negotiator who checked his findings or the main points of the agreements on the government which gave him the consent of the agreements he later signed. This then had an impact on further work and planning, in particular with regard to the financial aspects of the government's operation, so the minister did nothing with the unions on his own, but did so with the consent of the government and with some common view that he was working and signing agreements in the right direction. In these agreements, there was some controversy at the expense of the idea of whether the agreement that employees in public administration or in the wider public sector could only be reduced by a rate of 1% per year, namely the controversy went to the point of actually hiding the possibility of additional employment. Even percentages – 3% and more are written. This is an interesting thought plant, but something needs to be said. The natural outflow at different times of government was different. As far as natural outflows are concerned, the most successful government that managed these operations in 2012 was due to the adoption of a specific Article of the ZUJF, which required the immediate retirement of those who met all the conditions under the pension law. Until then, employees in the state administration referred to one of the constitutional decisions that allowed them to work in the state administration as long as they wanted and that, until they gave their consent, they did not in fact have to retire. This fact has led to the fact that in the past more than 1% of the natural outflow could not be achieved as a rule. But I don't think we can make big conclusions from the situation in 2012. We have ministries where there are actually quite a few old people who will go in years to meet the conditions and retire, but we have ministries and parts of the public sector where very young people are employed and we will be waiting very long for this natural outflow. So I don't think it's good to draw conclusions on how many people will go away and that Minister Virant, when he agreed to trade-offs for 1% of the reduction of public sector employees, actually wanted to employ new people in a hidden way. By the way, I personally think that some parts of the public sector actually need new people, fresh blood, new ideas, young people, in particular, I would point to one large part of the government that has grown very old, and I have no bad intentions when I say this, but I point out that these are people who have not been involved in any form of education for many years, because savings have been cancelled or there have been no resources for their additional training, which then leads to some rigidity and unadaptability of employees, particularly in the public administration. In my opinion, therefore, it would be imperative to include new, young people in the types of government. However, it is possible to regulate employment in the public administration and the wider public sector by means of wage masses. and the mass of wages is the key act under which individual ministries should then determine how many people will be employed on the basis of the funds allocated for salaries in these ministries. It would be wiser to look through the salary mass than through the number of employees. The last statement to be made to the Minister of Interoperability, which I would now like to discuss, speaks of the harm done to the Act on Compensation for Deleted Persons. At this point, I would only point out if we can move into the international environment and try with the eyes of the international environment, in particular the people of the European Court of Human Rights, to look now at the Slovenian situation in which the opposition is interpreting a minister who has sought to adopt an appropriate law on compensation for erased, which the European Court or the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights expected from the State of Slovenia. For an external point of view, this essentially means that the opposition does not agree with the law adopted and that it opposes what the great Senate has adopted. Not only does the political message that comes out of this violate the state's reputation when the minister said yesterday, but it actually shows the opposition in some kind of double, not to say a strange light. Even if the European People's Party declares itself in its support every day, it will not be able in the international, wider European space beyond the fact that it is smiling by interpreting a minister who has solved one complex or major Slovenian problem from the past 20 years of this country's operation. Therefore, I do not intend to support the interpretation and must say that, as it is composed, it is indeed more anti-interpellation or would have told students, if they had ever had the opportunity to deal with it, that in this way democratic procedures of interpolation do not make sense to lead, because they are not based on the principles that are expected in interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u7	Thank you, too. I give my word to Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u8	Hello! I am speaking because some interesting Eastern colleague Ljubica Jelusič was given, which I thank her for her beautiful thoughts and support. It has provided interesting points regarding public sector policy in Slovenia. I think that if we have so much time to discuss, this is a debate that is worth following and saying a few words about. I also want to introduce to you what is the government's view on this issue and what policy I intend to lead if you support me today. First time. I reject some artificial creation of a conflict or conflict between the public and private sectors. The public and private sectors are two important segments of our society. The economy is the one that creates added value, the public sector is the one that has to provide an appropriate environment to enable the economy to function, and which provides citizens with public service, education, health, culture, social services. Therefore, one or the other subsystems must not be more important. Both are equally important, and people who work in one or the other subsystems are equally important for the development of society. Their work is equally important for the development of society. Of course, it is always necessary to maintain a balanced relationship between the public and private sectors and the public sector to adapt to the situation in the economy, because the economy and citizens are those who pay the taxes from which they pay the salaries of public servants and this needs to be balanced. If there is no balance, then what has happened to us in the past years is too much, we have too much deficits, we create, there is an increase in public debt, which will now increase to 75% of the gross domestic product with this rehabilitation – which is still below the European average, but is still below the 22.5, as we had at the end of 2008, an extremely worrying trend – so it is important to worry that the public sector is adapting to the private sector. Often the question is how large the public sector is in Slovenia. And then there's a flat rate here that the public sector is 20 percent too big for 30, once the former Prime Minister said there are half the people working too hard in the state administration, etc. These are all very flat-rate estimates. The size of the public sector depends on two things. For one thing, what do we want from him or what extent of public services we want? Secondly, how effectively the public sector is doing its job. And in my firm opinion, the public sector in Slovenia is not 40 or 50 % too large, but it has reserves and these reserves need to be used, including by reducing the number of employees with the unaltered scope of public tasks or public services. And this is the policy that the government is pursuing. This policy was not born a month ago, two or with the government of Alenka Bratušek, but goes back to 2005, when there was no economic crisis and there was no spirit or hearing about the economic crisis, but then another government adopted a strategy to start looking for internal reserves to reverse the trend. Earlier, it was just about increasing, new jobs, increasing the number of employees. At that time, for the first time, it was decided to reverse the trend, to start looking for internal reserves and to set a goal for each year to reduce the number of employees. For 1%, which isn't much. But if you set this goal and then strictly follow it, it's 5% in five years and 10% in ten years. That's quite a number. And in the public administration, in the part which the public generally considers to be the most overwhelmed by the number of employees, this policy has been strictly and successfully implemented. Of course, because the government has this most directly under control. The number of employees decreased. There are very interesting graphs that show that. From 2005 until today, for example, in the civil part of the state administration, that is, without the military and the police, the number of employees has decreased from 17 thousand 93 to 14 thousand 506, which is a substantial reduction. In the entire state administration, which also takes into account the military and the police, and from 34 thousand 387 to 31 thousand 310. The government is therefore shrinking and this is the trend we are following. This trend is followed by a natural outflow, in a way that does not replace all those who leave the administration. This does not mean that no one is being replaced. That would be impossible. If a person leaves a key job to be replaced, he should be replaced. But since the natural outflow is actually between 3% and 4%, and if we say that we are pursuing the goal of reducing by 1% each year, let's say we are not replacing each third. If we completely shut down employment, it is said that there would be no replacement employment, it could cause great damage to the activities and would also completely close the doors for the employment of young people. We can't do that. At least a few options must be given to young people to find employment, both in the public sector and in the state administration. Therefore, there will remain a policy of reducing the number of employees with a natural outflow along a soft path and a soft method, some percentage at the annual level. I think we are going to talk about a slightly higher percentage in 2015, not just 1%, but this is a matter of negotiations that we will start with the unions next February. I would like to have 2015 under our roof as soon as possible – in terms of negotiating with the unions – so that we do not get the same thing this year when we had to correct the mistake of the previous government, which did not reach this agreement, and then we had to agree very quickly on additional measures. We're going to make these mistakes again. In February, we will sit down with the unions and try to agree on measures that will allow a sustainable salary in 2015. These will also include a reduction in the number of employees. Whether this will be one or two percent — we will agree on that. But I didn't agree to go into drastic cuts with forgiveness for business reasons, because that doesn't get us anything. This only gives us a bunch of new unemployed people, we get the costs of retirement, we get a bunch of new social problems, people who are going to lose their jobs and their family members, and that's not good. It is much better to follow this logic of a soft reduction in the number of employees. If we are disciplined and strict here, we will in fact reduce the public sector by 5.10% in a few years. However, I must say that unfortunately no government has so far been very successful in reducing the number of employees in certain activities. In the state administration, yes, that's what it was. Certainly not in congregations where the government has no authority. Someone said yesterday that the Ministry of the Interior agrees to work in the congregations. That doesn't even hold. In municipalities, the number of employees is increasing. In municipal administrations, the number of employees today is 2.5 times higher than at the beginning of local self-government in 1995. The number of employees in the health sector is also under control. It's growing a little bit, even though it could be reduced there with internal reserves. Not by hiring doctors – we do not have enough doctors in the system – but the remaining staff. There's only about 7,000 doctors in the system, and there's over 30,000 in the healthcare system. It's not just doctors, it's administrative personnel, nurses and so on. So the number of employees will continue to decline and the government will insist. I will make sure that this continues in the state administration, which is already running well, and other sector ministers will have to worry that this will continue in education, health, culture and social protection. The pay system that we now have has one great advantage in allowing for the control of the payload. If you are monitoring wage levels — not mass, but wage levels — in the public and private sectors from 1994 to today, you will find some interesting things. By the start of the pay reform – this was during the time of the government of Drnovska, when the Minister of the Interior, Rado Bohinc, and when the public sector's wage reform was established by the Public Sector Wage System Act – wage growth in the public sector was constantly beyond the growth of wages in the economy. Then the trend turned. Since 2002, wages in the public sector have practically stagnated, but in the economy they have grown quite well. This also helped Slovenia to enter the euro area. It must be acknowledged that the public sector has contributed to this because it has refused to increase wages after 2002. It is true, however, that this increase in wages was also cancelled, inter alia, because negotiations were under way on new collective agreements and because the so-called elimination of wage imbalances was envisaged, so that some undervalued professions, jobs, activities with the new system would be given more. And the public sector was really waiting until 2008, when we finally concluded collective agreements in the public sector. It was just before the elections and it was the nicest and last minute for collective agreements to be concluded. Why? Because both negotiating parties knew that the train would drive away. And they've come up with a compromise that they wouldn't. The trade union side gave in because it was completely uncertain what would happen after the elections if the new government continued with the same wage policy if it even negotiated further and so on. The government, however, wanted to close the story, to close six years of ongoing negotiations. And there came a point in the agreement, which predicted a certain wage growth, the elimination of wage imbalances. Fate wanted the economic crisis to take place immediately after these collective agreements were concluded. The collective agreements were signed in June. Slovenian macroeconomicists at the time did not say anything about the coming economic and financial crisis, but they only warned us about the problem of inflation. It turned out that their current forecasts were below the quality of the forecasts of the RS Environment Agency, which predicts the weather — things turned out to be completely different from what they had predicted at the time. And then what happened? In 2008 and 2009, this agreed growth was achieved, but still not by overcoming cumulative wage growth in the public sector from 2002 to 2009, including in 2009. That was about the same time. And then the Pahor's government began to act, and Minister Krebs began to conclude agreements on the suspension of payments of wage imbalances, and wages in the public sector began to fall dramatically again. It's a drastic fall. She did make one mistake. That annex to the collective agreement concluded in 2010 proved to be illegal later, so we will now pay certain bills, but the trend has reversed. The trend has gone down again and now, if you compare wage growth in the public sector and the economy since 2002, when wage reform started, you will see that wages in the public sector have remained real at about the same level as they were in 2002. Public sector employees thus receive about the same salary today as in 2002. In the economy, however, wages have risen by about 20% in real terms. This is the effect of wage reform in the public sector. Of course, at that time, one mistake was made, namely that during the crisis there was no halt in the growth of the number of employees in certain activities. In the state administration, this was under control, and in health, education, culture and social services, the number grew by a few thousand, which increased the wages. This one was wrong. This growth has only stopped the ZUJF in 2012 so that it is now a little bit more under control, and in my opinion it is still not enough. We're gonna have to take more care of these things. When it comes to the size of the public sector, they are interestingly comparable because it is good to know whether our public sector and within it is larger, smaller or comparable with other countries. By the way, I hope we already understand that the public sector is a much broader concept than public administration. Public administration is "bureaucracy", it is a state administration, these are municipal administrations, different holders of public authority. The public sector, however, is a broader concept, including health, education, culture, social, much more. The public administration accounted for 45 000 employees and the whole public sector accounted for just over 155 000. Just enough to explain these concepts. Well, the public sector in Slovenia covers 18.6% of all employees if we count persons and 18.1% if we count working hours. These are Eurostat data from 2011. The EU average of 27, i.e. the European Union as a whole, is 23.1% in persons and 21.8% in working hours. Of course, the Slovenian public sector is slightly below the average of the entire European Union and also slightly below the average of the old members of the European Union. The old members of the European Union have 23.5% in persons and 20.6% in working hours. In Slovenia, the public administration, i.e. "birocracy", has 5.6% in persons and 5.3% in working hours. EU 27-6.6% in persons and 6.8% in working hours. Old Europe – 6.9% in persons and 6.5% in working hours. The Slovenian public sector and public administration are therefore not critically large. They're not critical. However, they still have reserves to be used. Here, I think, is the right policy for those who sweep with all demagogism and populism, in the sense that "public servants are parasites, only the burden of society, must be forgiven" and so on. On the other hand, policy must recognise that there are reserves in the public sector and should also be able to find and reduce the number of employees. And that's government policy. So a reasonable, rational reduction in the number of employees on a natural path. As far as the pay system is concerned. This is the fruit of the work of the five successive governments, as Drnovskov's government began with Minister Bohince, continued the government with the same minister, then Jansev's government with me as Minister of Public Administration, then Pahoreva with Krebsov as Minister of Public Administration, then continued again with Jansev's government as Minister of Public Administration and, in fact, ended this reform with ZUJF. ZUJF has definitively settled wage imbalances. Although he reduced everyone's wages by 8%, the imbalances were definitively settled. And this long-standing reform of the pay system has also been reviewed by the OECD, i.e. foreign experts. The Supreme Group of Experts came to Slovenia to review all this and their assessment was that Slovenia had taken a large and important step, that the pay system was an important step forward and a significant improvement, but they advised us on certain adjustments towards greater flexibility and greater simplicity. The new pay system is from some chaos that we had before – the chaos of thousands of supplements, the chaos of a completely opaque system, the hundreds of regulations and collective agreements that regulated wages – made some sort of order. So we went out of chaos into a bigger order. Now we know, and foreign experts also advise us that we need to go a little differently, to increase flexibility a little bit. And that's what we're planning. We have prepared amendments to the law already written on the public sector wage system, which is heading towards simplification of the pay system and a larger number of stimulating elements. I would not go into the details, but only say so much that we want to simplify the entire performance award system, from several elements of performance to make one piece of work, so that every public employee can get up to 30% higher salary from the job performance or up to 50%, if it comes to domestically, for some handball, is said to be a project where it is necessary to work full time in a short period of time, because then people should also be paid full. Then we plan that even in the fixed salary segment there would be some flexibility, it is said that the management could raise a fixed salary for a certain period for example 10, 12 %, and after that period either retain this increase or lower it back. So, as much flexibility as possible to simplify the performance evaluation system, which has not been best proven in practice. [[..]] In order to prevent automaticism in progress, which is a single anomalies of the pay system, in the sense that everyone is making automatic progress, that everyone is well rated, everyone is making progress. It's nothing. It's nothing like that. And now, in the public sector, we have fluctuated from one extreme to another, when everyone has automatically advanced to another, when we have frozen the progress. And before we defrost them back, we need to arrange the system so that the progress will be meaningfully arranged, that only the best will actually progress, or that one piece of progress may be automatic, and then from there on after work success. This, you see, is the changes we are planning, and this is quite an extensive work ahead of us at the beginning of next year, waiting for our ministry, which is waiting for me personally, if you don't cancel my interpretation today, and this work will begin in February. So the bill on the pay system is ready. We will start discussions with trade unions in February on two things: a change in the salary system, i.e. a change in the law, and measures to control wages in 2015, which are likely to be made up of several segments. We will talk about reducing the number of employees, the level of wages, certain rights, etc., so that I do not now explain the negotiating points. That's it. I wanted to round up this subject a little bit, which my colleague, Ljubica Jelusic, had opened up nicely.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u9	Thank you, Minister. As a proponent, he has the word "mag" first. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u10	Thank you. Good bye to all of you! Of course, this interpolation was not made because it would be required to forgive mass in the state administration, as the minister said. No, but because we warn that the Minister's signature is harmful under the undertaking that in the next two years, I quote, "the reduction in the number of public servants in this period will not exceed 1%". The Minister himself said that a natural outflow would probably be around 3% to 5% during this period. This means that with this commitment, the commitment, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is to compensate for new additional employment there from three quarters to 80% of those who would otherwise reduce the total number of public servants in the Republic of Slovenia by natural outflow. This proves that neither he nor the government are aware of the seriousness of the moment in which we, where the tax screw is for entrepreneurs, for the Slovenian economy and for all taxpayers, are already drawn to such an extent as to cause irreparable long-term consequences. Let me give you one concrete example. Akrapovic, one of Slovenia's most successful entrepreneurs, has already bought halls in Bela Krajina, where unemployment is one of the highest in Slovenia to open up a large number of jobs, more than 100. And after the government raised VAT and announced a whole bunch of new taxes and taxes, unfortunately, it gave up on this project. It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that this has resulted from your completely flawed tax policy is double. First of all, because it's about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u11	Mr Grims, as a motioner for interpretation, you are probably aware that interpellation is against Dr. Gregor Virant, and that is not the content of the interpretation you are currently presenting. Tax policy is somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u12	Mr. President of the National Assembly, exactly what I am telling you right now is the essence of this interpretation, and I believe that you would like it not to be discussed in the National Assembly, but Mr. Virant has now spoken about everything, only the content of the interpretation does not [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u13	He was talking about the public administration he was responsible for.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u14	And I've been twisting my words. [[…]] And you didn't even remind him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u15	No, because it wasn't necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u16	I am talking about why this interpretation is justified because the conduct of the Minister has caused additional unnecessary costs for the state budget and I am telling you what the concrete consequences are. Mr President, if you will listen to me carefully, you will also get to know them and I think it would be good if you knew them. In particular, I have said with this case where such a tax policy leads. Too bad it's a double. Because there are some 100 people left on the back of the country as social supporters and, on the other hand, the worst part, there are no long-term inflows that would otherwise be taxed out to the State when they were once employed in this successful company. In short, the tides are lower, the tides are larger. And now imagine that in such situations it is not even allowed to reduce the number of employees in the public administration by means of that natural outflow. No one has demanded that some mass pardons be made. It was the pure rhetoric of the Minister. That's not what I'm talking about. What we object to is this signature of the undertaking that the reduction will not exceed 1%. Such a commitment is pointless and extremely harmful for this country, because of the moment in which we live, because of the things I am describing to you because of this long-term consequences. The cancellation of investments due to an excessively tight tax screw does not only mean damage at the moment, but is a long-term irreparable damage and the departure of the most successful entrepreneurs abroad as well. All of this is due to the fact that the tax screw is too tight for entrepreneurs and all taxpayers. Therefore, at least it should be left where possible to reduce the number of employees on a natural path in order to achieve this to the maximum extent possible. And if another commitment is made at the same time, as Mr Minister, that – not in return – is another story, but a further one has been signed – all the backlogs have been paid with late interest, which is the most expensive possible debt of the country, then, of course, it is extremely to the detriment of the budget, it is particularly to the detriment of the public interest, it is to the detriment of the development of the state of Slovenia. And it is not a problem that a minister does much work, as the honourable Member has said. The problem is if he does damage, because if he does a lot of work, he does a lot of damage, and that's why this interpolation is justified and is based on specific numbers. No one can deny that the most expensive debt that is now due to the issue of bonds there is 5,5 % if it comes to three-year obligations. Therefore, the commitment for 8.5 or up to 8,9 as far as these late interest falls, the personal responsibility of the person who signed this, because then it would be better to rent this loan, issue the bonds and pay it immediately, and the matter would be solved for taxpayers, for entrepreneurs, for the Slovenian economy in a more favourable way. This is because we are talking about work, because work is the subject of interpretation, this interpretation is justified because it is a bad job.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for a lecture that lasted at least one school hour and had nothing to do with the interpretation because it was about the future. I, Mr Minister, have asked you very correctly some specific questions. In our answers, the opposition and me personally, you ignore, but there's no problem, and we'll take it and endure it. And since I was talking about the plasma of the Essemes earlier, now I'm moving on. Once again, the mayor of the great suburban municipality with more than 5,000 people – which means that he is not offended because he is going to be abolished – writes: "Ask Virant today why he supports high public servants, people who have three jobs,... then mentions a case here, I will avoid it," and why he allows public servants to pay several times more than the president of the country – such salaries are paid by directors of various institutions and so on." Of course you do. Yesterday you somehow signed a petition for the form with the MP's title to the minimum. Once again, I have no problem with this if the state would benefit from it. Then I am about to adopt such a law, we ourselves. You were talking about a drastic increase in employees on municipal administrations. If you were an honest man when you declared it, then you would say that it was probably necessary to increase the employment of people on municipal administrations because the congregations received new assignments. And I would also invite you sometime with the New Slovenia Group and the leadership of New Slovenia, when we go around to field visits – 16 we have already done – to see perhaps, Mr. Minister of the Interior, how the Municipality of Hodoš lives, and perhaps Municipality of Odranci, Municipality of Velika Polana, Municipality of Ormož and so on, where you would also be told that, interestingly, even your ministers, even from your party, look at the colors of which the mayor is and appropriately sign and draw various decisions. On specific matters, perhaps further. I ask you once again because here is your ministerial colleague and my respectable cousin, if you are going to go to the Pomuri municipalities, to Pomuri and perhaps even to the Armenian work, and, of course, to the Minister's colleague mag. You excused the fact that on September 5th of this year, you said publicly that people should see how the Pomurs are unable to deal with what fragmentation means, that the waterworks fell into the water and that we lost a lot of European resources. Yesterday I explained to you that this is not true and that you, as the minister of this government, should only know something, including that this is the largest cohesion project that was then held on 5 September, the vast majority of co-financing and implementation contracts have been practically signed. And here I must take to the defense of your Minister's colleague Dejan Židan, who deserves to go to the finish line at a good pace and once again commend my colleague Bogovic, who has prepared the ground for us to come to the finish line at all. This needs to be made clear, Mr Minister, and citizens and citizens should ever be excused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u19	Thank you. As a candidate, Franz Bogovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u20	I will not talk about the Pomura pipeline, I am proud that my fellow Jew could sign these contracts and that we have concluded this work together. But I would like to come by, first to thank you for this lecture, Minister Virant, and also to give one reflection on what has now been said. I'm not going to take up the defense of Minister Jew, I don't think he can come forward today, but the people who are employed on Ars. For the second or third time, I've heard you make this gravel so that macroeconomic forecasts in 2008 were about the same as weather forecasts. I'm sorry, the people at the ARSU are doing this very well, especially those who are doing this work, and I think we should thank them for a variety of predictions that there was no more flooding and I think that this is the kind of attitude that is underestimating these people. For many years Arso was guilty of everything that is wrong in the field of what permission, but I know very well that there is a lot to be done at the Ministry of the Environment, the Directorate of the Environment and elsewhere, which is what the Minister is doing now, to shorten procedures and regulate foremenity. I'm talking about this case because it's your way of communicating. This pains me the most with the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, who is in charge of public administration, because every now and then he allows himself to have someone, once and for all, because it sounds good because people like to hear it. In this way, Minister, we will not have good public administration but if you give so many lectures and also tell us how many governments you were in when you were regulating this system. However, the second point that you have stated is, in my opinion, another point of view needs to be clarified. In those years, you said that real wages remained the same in the public sector, with an economic increase of 20%. You forgot to say that in these years the textile industry has failed, that the shoe industry has failed, one whole bunch of production industries where these wages were the lowest, and unfortunately this has led to an increase in average wages because one bunch of poorly paid non-competitive jobs, which cannot compete on the European market anymore, simply disappeared. And that's why this average is bigger. In the economy, the price of the crisis was paid much more than in the public sector. Unfortunately, there are much fewer employees there, the average salary is now higher, I said why, and in many successful companies, they went down by 10, 20%, which we did in the public sector only last year and with great pain, and I think we have reached some consensus in the end. That's why this number, which you're squeezing with, that's 400 million, is due mainly to the ZUJF from last year. As far as your salary reform from 2004-2008 is concerned. You said you were doing it on the assumption that injustice would be removed from the past, that no one would be forgiven, that no one would have less than they had before, and that we would spend the same amount of money. Perpetuum mobile. That's not working. And such approaches have been quite something, even this year. We pay 4% back, what Mrs Krebs did, and now we're down 4% and we're on the same page. Where did we end up? We're paying legal late interest to go forward, not back. I've been in the business my whole life, even back we've been negotiating if we had to pay late interest to get a cut, God forbid you have to sign up for late interest. Whoever does this needs to be closed down and set aside a few million euros of unnecessary costs in this way. Yesterday, the finance minister told us that there would be $2 billion left in the account, so we have money. Suggest next week at the sitting decision to set the conditions and pay immediately! It's not like we're paying late interest. That's not how he manages his country. What do we have in the public sector today? We have a sector where, in the past, we have agreed to the pressures of all existing unions for all possible and impossible advancements, we have made public administrations with too many employees, and we cannot let young people down today, but if someone comes after this outflow, and half is paid by someone who is already a little tired, we should think that these two should slowly be more equal in remuneration. And here we have these real problems that are coming. Something has already been said about the anomalies in our system. We have a system, as has been said, where a whole bunch of people in public administration get higher wages than the President or Prime Minister or the President of the State. Wrong. Let's get this over with! Second anomaly. I was a minister and an MP myself. The anomaly is that the Member is better paid than the Minister. And now I'm sitting on this side. The net remuneration of the Minister shall be less than the net remuneration of the Member. But let's ask ourselves, what is this net receipt? Who else can be invited to the key positions of leadership? When I was looking for the secretary of state, I got a bunch of baskets because people don't want to come. When I was looking for the chief of staff at the Ministry, a 30-year-old lawyer told me he wouldn't work for that kind of money. On the other hand, we have some expectations about what these public administrations and officials should give for the state to function. I think we need to do a lot of quality work, not be humiliating to Members by putting them on the floor and driving this demagogy "It is a simple demagogy that is not beautiful, and it is not worthy of a minister who is responsible for public administration," you said to me yesterday. [[..]] That's how you responded to my debate. And I felt like such an idiot that I really don't deserve more than minimum wage. I earn it in apples, triple or five times if necessary. When you have so much to say about mayors. I was the mayor of the congregation, who had 25,000 people. In five years we have made 110 million euros in investments and received 40 million European money. Two thousand 200, two thousand 300 euros was the mayor's salary, I'm talking about myself personally. Do you think that's too much? When I compared myself with the directors of institutions, libraries, whatever high schools or older gentlemen in primary schools, who still have supplements, they were all paid a lot better. Their wages come close to the minister's salary. Is this the system that will bring this country forward? Let's say it out loud for once! The nicest thing to do is hit the officers and the whole country will be saved. I'm sorry, if we're going to do the same with the officials we're doing now, we're going to make this country as we do now, and we're going to do it on this basis. I know the case of the mayor of Prekmur, who, if I may say so, has 3,000 or 4,000 people. In this municipality they have a public institution, a school and a kindergarten. In total, 77 people are employed, and the mayor told me that when he made a comparison with the employees in this institution, he was 44. Is this really too much for one mayor? Do you really think these people don't do anything to make these people bureaucratic, like you said? Excuse me, the mayors are more than bureaucracy. You said public administration was bureaucracy. That's wrong, that's the wrong concept. State administration, ministries, municipalities – these are development stories. And the success of these people depends largely on the success of this country, whether we want to admit it or not. Unfortunately, because of your words – today I have the opportunity to say this – many times, even in the 2004-2008 mandate, I was very disappointed because I felt this tone of self-promotion, humiliation and reduction of the importance of the individual functions of the one that was on the turn of the day. For example, they were on tape transports to the police. Remember, for God's sake, let the cops grab their own and take those inappropriate miles. We don't have to insult even Slovenia and a whole bunch of people. I think we're making mistakes here when we just want to be popular and start a demagogy, and the system is falling apart in front of our eyes. In this state administration, we must do a great deal in the entire public sector, but let us do it when we are honest and put all the truths on the table and speak openly about them. But I'm guessing it can't be done the way you do it. And in one part, interpellation also talks about public sector regulation. I really recommend – I believe that you will continue to interpret today – that we are talking about these truths out loud and that we have a sincere intention to improve the public administration, public administration, the public sector. We need to see what we have brought into the public sector as a cover. Let's redistribute the men. We're even, I don't know, even from Owl to the Arso mentioned earlier, because we've estimated that there's a need to be done in the process. I don't know if it was the right decision. Some even told me they came to control me. I may be, but I've estimated that it's better that people who are said to be too large are trained to run administrative procedures because they say they have surpluses. Find better examples so you don't have to laugh at this case. But it's time to go this way. Just like we have to get the customs officers somewhere else. I'm not in favour of sending 10,000 people home drasticly. Maybe we should consider that someone 55 years old is willing to work four days a week. At five, we will get one job for one young person, who can be paid a full contribution for pensions and so on, as they did in Germany at some point with teachers when they assessed it. Maybe it's a model to make it easier for us to agree on the standards. I hope that I won't be attacked again, that I'm chasing someone home, that I'm taking 30% of my pensioners, that I'm destroying them socially, and that I'm an a social type. But it is wrong for us to create demagogism, populism and count on what is good for public opinion or even this public opinion previously created and then literally forgive the expression, ride and thus build a political future. And unfortunately, in your work both in the municipalities and in the public sector, we are colleagues, and I say out loud that I feel too much of this inspiration in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u21	Thank you. Ivan Simčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u22	Nicely greeted! Mr President, Mr. Secretary, I am honored to have you here. I hope I don't offend anyone in this debate. I'm supposed to be able to discuss Article 118. There's probably a reason we've been sitting here for so many hours yesterday and today, and we're discussing it. I would see it in the speed of statements and in the likes of public statements, and then we would sit down and debate. When we talk about the 1st point we read to the minister, not about the proposal, but about the abolition of the congregations, I ask myself, because my congregation is not affected by the abolition of it, since it was established in 1962, but will obviously be phased out, regardless of the fact that it has 13,000 inhabitants and that it is the second in the country's territory, as they took 860,000 euros in the 2014 budget. That's how she got on the list that's right in front of you. Speaking of mayors. Unfortunately, I also heard yesterday: "You have certain mayors." But I would say that apparently customers who have existed for the past two years can't have mayors except one. And the Prime Minister's statement is off-limits. This is not a statement from the President of the Government. At the next local election, go to the polls and see how many mayors there are. The reasons for thinking about abolishing the congregations are "we will save, we will reduce". At the same time, the government is saying that the development of Slovenia is in the tourism sector, which will be developed by local government. Interesting. I would also like to make a few suggestions so that we are not just "symphs". So the development of tourism is actually on local self-government. Point 2 speaks of deletion. There's been a lot of talk about deleted. I didn't call myself at this point. But I'd like to say something from practice. I'm coming from a border town. Sometime in 1992, I brought four people here with me, to Beethoven, to a Slovenian course they had completed in 15 minutes. They were invited, they were not informed and they came for citizenship. Someone must have manipulated it. The European Court of Justice has, with all due respect, decided. They say the decision is respected. But there's something else I suggest. When I arrived at the National Assembly, I had only one word before me, namely, how to make peace in this nation. Will we also ask the European Court of Justice about this? I'd suggest someone do this to order us to get out of here. To conclude, to the Minister, who is not present, as regards the minimum. I propose that a referendum be held for all citizens and citizens to pay EUR 2 000 and all pensioners thousands of euros. No one has to have minimum wage. Ask the pensioners if they will be satisfied with thousands of euros, ask the employees. But someone with 10,000 and 20,000 will ask a fat question. And since I come from the countryside, from the CAP — a healthy farmer of the mind, I would like to ask and say something at the same time. The spring farmer plants something and does not brag about what will happen in the fall, but waits for the fall. But we, if memory doesn't deceive me, have over the last two years abolished the State Council, the Law on Members, we are thinking about abolishing the congregations, and let someone show me the reality. What is the reality with regard to the State Council, the Law on Members and the thinking of the congregations? The media is a beautiful thing, but you must not be overtaken by the gift of speech before the gift of reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u23	Thank you. Ms Kristina Valenčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Renata Brunskole. Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I believe that you have taken your time and read in the lobby of this hall the letters which were addressed to us, Members of Parliament and Members, by the eight-year-olds in the context of the creative competition "Letter to Members". When we read their thinking, we simply cannot remain indifferent. In their authenticity, without bluffing and misinterpreting, they talk about the key problems of our society. "Why don't Members do more? Why are they just arguing? Why is it more important for them to attack each other than to step together? When will the people who run the country begin to think more about us? If politicians do not have patience and faith in themselves, how should we believe them? How can we trust them?" And why did I start that? Because I am convinced that grown - ups should be exemplary to young people, by their thinking and by their conduct. Are we really them? Politics has been dealing with itself for years. We spend hours and hours on infertile debates, throwing pollen under each other's feet, we don't listen enough, and we rarely walk together. The opposition on the one hand is up to disability against, on the other hand, the coalition to disability for. Therefore, we need to start changing ourselves, cleaning up at our own doorstep, and starting to talk about how we will restore the hope of young people to this world. I'm saying all this because I'm disappointed in the insights of the interpolation. I expect from political cats with many years of experience a much more reasoned and reasoned explanation supported by concrete facts rather than based on assumptions and experiments. SDS and SLS have extensive experience in the investment of interpretations. If we look only at the time of the Pahor's government, there have been interpellations against the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Education and Sport and even twice against the Minister for Home Affairs. I don't know if any Minister of the Interior survived his term without being intertwined. The reason for the interpolation was usually a concrete affair. Let's think of the Vič-Holmec affair and the purchase of police boats, Bulmastifs, Strojans, calls for Contingencies and more. Two Home Affairs ministers were also intertwined for, among other things, deleted. That's why it was somehow expected to be interpellationed with Minister Virant. The habit is an iron shirt, although there is no affair and there is no real content. That, too, shows hesitation in the composition and application of interpolation. Who will be with and who will not, which points of interpolation to include, add which ones to exempt. Swinging the SDS and looking for the right moment. In short, political manoeuvres that have little in common with content alone. Clearly, it has become a practice to intertwine those ministers who work and have results, so I cannot interpret interpolation differently than the opposition's defence mechanism, which, because of the Minister's active and successful action, feels threatened and therefore tries to divert public attention from good, successful stories and projects and from the problems that are actually here and that need to be addressed. The values that the National List lives and operates on them, values such as constructiveness and cooperation, professionalism and professionalism, credibility, economic and social freedom, tolerance, openness and transparency are being realized in practice, are becoming fact and clearly become too disturbing for some, so it is necessary to disqualify our President and destroy the party. Parliament is a serious institution and it is therefore right to act responsibly. We entered politics to show a different political culture. It shall not attack, disqualify, insult or respect the institutions of that country. The Minister is not involved in the concrete work of the police, the NPU, the prosecutions, so these bodies have political peace and focus on their work, effectively, professionally, quickly carrying out their tasks. The results are obvious. The number of crimes investigated is increasing sharply, including the number of economic crime and corruption suspects investigated. There have also been some rebuttal judgments, and we rightly expect all those cases to end with a just judgment. And if I touch the interpolation readings for a moment. The first main observation for which the Minister should resign is an attempt to endanger the local self-government system. The Minister has already spoken a lot, including other debaters, the fact is that the Ministry has, of course, not submitted any legal proposal that would endanger the existence of municipalities, but the Minister has made it clear many times and publicly that he advocates a lean country, which also includes weak and effective local self-government, and we have all the parties recorded in his programmes. Apparently some with a fig in their pocket. If I already understand that this is not possible for customers who have many mayors of their own kind; SLS: 41, SDS: 33, Nova Slovenija: 88. These are the figures for the last local elections, I don't understand why we're wasting our chance now that this step is ready to be made by someone else. So, I am confident and support the idea of reforming local self-government. I am convinced that only a strong local government can represent an appropriate counterweight for centralised government. To finish this point with just one map. We Slovenians have decided it makes sense to stand together and unite. We have decided to join the European Union and this is our Slovenia within the European Union. On the other hand, the same Slovenians from this small land do this — 212 congregations. The second observation concerns the signature of two, according to the motioners for the interpretation of harmful documents for the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not gonna lose a lot of words on the subject. There's been a lot of talk on the parental committee. It turned out well — on the one hand, the opposition will press criminal charges against the minister because he is abandoning his duty, on the other hand, they will do so to the unions if we do not, of course, adopt this law — I am talking about the Payment Act of the third quarter of the pay gap – because, of course, the minister does not respect the judgment of the court. All the Minister is doing is to continue with the measures we have taken together in the time of the Janša government. The problem is, of course, that we have changed the coalition in the meantime and, of course, these measures are no longer welcome, but they deserve an interpolation. The problem of deleted, a problem that the government has not created, has been satisfactorily concluded by Minister Virant after 20 years. As I said, there were at least two ministers who were also intertwined over this topic. I ask my opposition colleagues what they would have done if they had a European Court of Justice on their table. Would we put her in a drawer, or would we, of course, take matters actively, solve the problem and thus avoid new lawsuits in Strasbourg that would cost citizens a lot more? Anyone accompanying this debate can create his own picture and his own conclusion. It is clear, however, that all the indications in the interpretation are entirely unfounded that the applicants simply want to disqualify Minister Virant because he is more than obviously successful, working, perceptive and tolerant. Is this really how we got out of our way? Are these the values our society is ashamed of? Who don't count for anything anymore? And I'm going to finish with the proposals of the eight-year-olds, and how do they see a way out of this situation? "You people who lead Slovenia, step together. If everyone insists and insists on their own, this will never end. Therefore, take into your hands the thought of cooperation and the transformation of Slovenia into a better country." That's what high school kids think. Can we make this happen for the politicians?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u25	Thank you. I give the floor to Renata Brunskole and prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Interpellation is very interesting, especially because these arguments are unfounded and do not convince us. I can also understand them as a warning to the government not to go in a direction that is not right. But that's probably not the point. In the area of local self-government, if I focus, it is an interpretation because of a law that is not yet in place, and this does not mean that we will not discuss this with representatives of the municipalities, as well as with Members of the National Assembly. Platforms for reform have already been adopted by the government, and now it is time to start talking about this. If we look at the functioning of municipalities and its representative associations in the Republic of Slovenia, we can find that we have ZMOS – Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, we have SOS – Community of Slovene municipalities, we have the ZOS – Association of Slovene municipalities. It can be found that their warnings are very different, but usually justified by the facts they hold, especially until it is not a matter of reducing the financial resources of the municipalities. However, since we have come to the Republic of Slovenia in recent years during the period of economic and financial crisis, this is felt very strongly by the municipalities, although the municipalities have been the largest generators of development in recent years, in fact even the only investors. A large number of unemployed people in municipalities, including many young people, businesses in difficulty in the area of local communities, population ageing in the Republic of Slovenia – all of this leads to municipalities receiving so much less money in budgets, including the Republic of Slovenia, so much less money in the state budget. However, as we have said many times in the last days of the debate, the Republic of Slovenia needs a billion and a half euros a year for pensions. The higher unemployment rate thus means that less money is flowing into municipalities and consequently municipalities have less investment capacity from their own resources. However, we need more resources for social transfers, more resources to ensure the survival of people in municipalities, to ensure education, pre-school education and also to co-finance the care of our elderly citizens who are providers of nursing homes. The financing of municipalities will have to be changed, we are all aware of this, but major changes today are not considered to be due to the introduction of a property tax, which provides for a three-year transitional period. And only in this time will it be possible to see how and what and certainly will need to be changed in this direction. As for the size of the congregations and the association of the congregations, I can say that there will be a need for reflection and no change will be possible without the clear human will of citizens and citizens. Among the smaller congregations, if we focus on the area of the White Land, I can say that we have a model example of a small congregation in Beli krajina, in the congregation of Semič, which, when it became a single congregation, could develop more than if it remained within the largest Belokranj municipality, namely Montenegro. Also in the Dolenjska region, I know some successful municipalities, which have become visible from a large local community within a larger municipality and have made the necessary efforts. We are also aware of cases where some municipalities have organized themselves in such a way as to prepare projects, apply for tenders and, above all, obtain European grants. It is true, however, that consideration is needed about the integration and closer cooperation of smaller congregations. As an example, the Joint Medo-Chinese Administration, such as the Mirna Valley region, Šentrupert and Mokronog-Trebelno, can again be mentioned. They are examples of successful medo-cultural activity, but above all, in the direction in which we think. We are considering the sustainability and financial sustainability and diligence of local self-government. Here, however, there is a reflection in the direction of integration, including association, if necessary, especially those congregations for which we today find that they themselves are unable to act financially in this direction, so that they can carry out all the tasks of the municipalities alone and ensure financial sustainability with their resources. Article 138 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the inhabitants of Slovenia exercise local self-government in municipalities and other local communities, and Article 142 of the Constitution provides that the municipality shall be financed from its own resources and that municipalities which, due to poor economic development, cannot fully ensure the performance of their tasks shall be provided by the State in accordance with the statutory principles and criteria. The Constitution therefore provides that the municipality shall be financed from its own resources and that the State shall assist it with additional resources, but this does not mean that the municipality would live in front of all or only state resources. There will have to be and there should be some proportionality, so there have already been discussions in this direction within the coalition in order to ensure the financial sustainability of local self-government, to ensure the quality of the functioning of municipalities, and in particular to ensure that the task of local self-government for citizens and citizens will also be able to provide quality to municipalities, mayors and municipal councils. In Positive Slovenia we stand for the just state of the Republic of Slovenia. We advocate respect for the rule of law of Slovenia, the government has already adopted some amendments to the laws that go in this direction, although in some of the debates it may be felt that some want to act more in the direction of disgruntledness, still dividing into yours and some others, which I do not think is right. I think we are on the right track to go within the framework of the legislation also in the National Assembly together with the Government on the right path, the path of the rule of law, a just society, a solidarity state and also a country where citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would feel safe, well and that people would not be concerned. Even when they listen to the debates of Members and Members of the National Assembly. However, because I am the only Member of the White Country, and because today she was on the side of the proposal for mags. Grims' incorrect statement about Akrapovic's departure from White Krajina, I must say that this is not true. Even in the Dolenjska List of 25. 9. was stated in the title: "Akrapovic is not leaving Montenegro. The councillors here met at the 22nd regular meeting in this term and Mr Igor Akrapovic also attended, who said he did not hold back from leaving the idea of moving Akrapovič to Črnomelj, but first the premises purchased by the company in Montenegro must leave SeCOM." So I think it's right for people who listen to us, Belokranjk and the Belokranjs, not to make people concerned when they don't. I agree, however, that White landscape is a demographically threatened area, White landscape is in difficulty, so I am also committed to ensuring that the White landscape has a quality transport link to ensure that the White landscape also offers all the opportunities provided by the Regional Development Partnership Programme of the Crop to complement it, in some parts, that the effectiveness of this programme itself will be the same as we want – the employment of young people, the lower unemployment rate, that people will not leave this area, that is to say that we are not in the area of local self-government and in the area of regional development, people who also live on the outskirts of a country not living in large cities but living in a village, perhaps even in a cleaner and healthy environment than some others, and that we also deserve the necessary attention, accessibility and quality of life, even though we live in the outskirts of Slovenia. And I myself, as a Member of the National Assembly, a Member of the Coalition and a Member of the Positive Slovenia, will take the floor for this. The arguments in the interpolation, because the point of interpolation on which I relate is linked to local self-government, to the rule of law, are unfounded and I will not support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. And prepare yourself, Mrs. Janja Klasinc. Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, President, thank you very much for not reminding the predecessor that she talks for almost 12 minutes about almost everything but the interpretation. So make it easier for future debaters to work — if we go out of the context of interpolation for a few minutes, we will be forgiven. However, I must admit that there was some agreement in the background that she would support the interpolation or that she did not join the habits of this coalition to speak one, people liked it, but they were doing another completely. Let me start with my introduction. I agree with all those who say the Minister works. I have to admit that to him. How and what it does is a completely different question and based on our interpretation. The interpolation material was more than enough, even more, and we haven't been able to put everything into interpolation. Interpellation is a fully legitimate democratic process in the National Assembly, and this is what I say for all those who kind of stink at how interpretation is not necessary. I think that even though we don't agree everywhere, interpellation is just an opportunity to talk about certain subjects where we differ. In my opinion, the minister should survive one interpretation in the party, but given that some prominent members of the party are leaving, and some of them are photographing him while defending the interpretation, he is unlikely to experience interpretation in the party. But that would be necessary, because even though I don't want to get involved in the work of your party, Mr. Minister, you're probably hurting your client with your actions, but I'm not going to be the judge of that. In short, I would focus only on those points that I think are important, where I would try to prove to you that you are acting to the detriment of the rule of law and also to the detriment of the state or financial consequences that your decisions will have for them. Maybe the area of local self-government first. Minister, I understand you're not an expert in local government and I'm not going to blame you for thinking out loud. That's perfectly legitimate. But I would only warn you that the easiest way to resolve local self - government is by deleting or eliminating more than half of the congregations, but this will not solve the problem. If we were thinking in another direction and were to reorganise administrative units so that we might join the province's project, which has already begun, the solution of local self-government would be much easier. Which, after all, is what European comparisons are coming to. Unlike those who say that what you are thinking is unnecessary, the debate on local self-government is quite the opposite. All those who were present when we were changing or imposing a property tax, which will also cut down deeply in the field of local self - government, would likely have a question for you, such as why you allowed those congregations that were good, who created and built their buildings as a result of this tax to be bruised. Minister, I must say that I did not see in the means of public information that you would oppose this tax and take local self-government into account. Moreover, with the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, you have cut deep into the functioning of local self-government in the future. This is a secret way of doing things, and it does not erase the congregations, but how the congregations will shut down because you will not allow them to operate. You have reduced the funding for co-financing investments from 4% to 2%. Moreover, in 2015 you will even abolish these funds. The average decreases in 2015. You no longer treat municipalities according to the Development Hazard Index, but only by the number of inhabitants. In the field of local self-government and your words on harmonious regional development, you seem to imagine that this will be the easiest solution so that the congregations will be completely abolished, at least the smallest. In short, Minister, not only your words, but also your actions show that you do not know local self-government or with all the legal means that have serious financial consequences, you are acting against local self-government. About the deleted and the skeleton that "fell down on your desk from the past". If you are critical, be critical of yourself. If memory doesn't fool me, you've been Secretary General at the Ministry of Internal Affairs from 2000 to 2004. And it's probably this skeleton at the time, too. And apparently there was not enough desire and ambition to solve this problem. Personally, I don't have a problem with this problem being solved. I just have a problem with how you saved him. Above all, I have a problem that by this law you have appointed other Slovenian citizens, so that I will not be considered a nationalist, to be second-rate citizens. If we just look at the solutions that this law brings, the possibilities that all new ones have, probably your voters, how they are exempt from administrative fees, how they are exempt from court fees, even more, within six months they have to be served judgments, we have a three-year deadline to submit a request, they have a three-year deadline to file a monetary damages action. The amount of compensation increases with ease, with one push on the "for" keyboard. They are given additional forms of just satisfaction and eventually the possibility of redress. Any citizen, who has barely reached the age of 18 or who has been living in our country since 1991, would be happy to seize such conditions as you have given to those you have chosen as your new electorate. To make no mistake, I believe that some tens of those who have really been in these 20 years have been wiped out because of such or other consequences of the status, but not all 20s. That I won't be too long. I could talk about the functioning of the police and the anti-corruption commission, how independent the authorities are and how they do not work. But, look at the fraction, every time something important happens in the National Assembly, either the anti-corruption commission or the criminals, the police, have a very important job on the ground. Despite my first term in the National Assembly, I have been following state policy for almost 10 years through my work and I do not believe in political coincidence. And I believe you don't believe in coincidence either. A lot of your words are about corruption in public administration, but you were also the Minister of Public Administration, and in another government you were very generous about corruption. I will not go into the area of eliminating the third quarter of wage imbalances, where you had two easier and better solutions. If we paid off this imbalance immediately, we would be saving EUR 10 million to the Slovenian budget. However, if we opted for legal action to the end, given that you are such a great advocate of the rule of law, we could demand a constitutional complaint and a solution as quickly as possible at the outset of the review. And believe me, if the Constitutional Court did what it had to do, by the time the law entered into force, it would also have been answered by the Constitutional Court, even if it had been negative. And then you'd probably be talking about who should be laughing. You've decided on a path that is neither legal nor financial. On the other hand, your work is beneficial for a lot of union members. You don't give them membership cards, you just give them discounts. You also give discounts to the various civil servants you have promised them to be exempt from payment of overpaid salaries, where this is again a matter of damage to the state budget. When you promised what you would do as Minister, you also committed yourself to the rule of law and to the guardianship of the state budget. One of your first actions has shown duality in your work. Because of one person, one function you changed the Government Act. Thus, an important young man now sits in the National Assembly, despite his failure to meet the conditions, taking up the job he himself has created, as you have allowed him to do so by amending the legislation. Your duality is also reflected in the misunderstanding of administrative units. Despite the fact that you are coming from these waters, despite all the strategic plans that speak of our provinces or regional dispersion, you want to set up a new segment, a new number, past the National Assembly, and you do well to be politically staffed. And despite the fact that the minister who was in the previous government, and also in this government in the field of justice, signed. Since then, everything has been fine, but since you've been in the new government, the personnel — we know about which customers they come from — have to fly away. Maybe just one sentence on the area of financing political parties and elections. I've got quite a few impressions that I'm one of the few that I'm even hoping to say out loud what's going on in political parties, but also the Legal and Legislative Service has warned you that on many segments you're going to run into constitutional provisions where you're on very slippery ground. Not only have you done some damage to the financial budget, but you have also encountered the rule of law many times and have acted to the detriment of this rule of law. Let me finish. There was a lot of talk about moral mirrors, who had to set it up for someone. The leader of the largest parliamentary group has set up a mirror for the entire opposition, in which we must look at each other at some time. Minister, with all due respect, I think it's right for certain ministers, in which case you, too, sometimes look in the mirror. Believe me, you're not like the North Korean president for a lot of Slovenians, but your moral image has broken pretty bad for a lot of people because your words say something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u29	Mr. Fox, don't you feel like you've gone to a whole other area like the subject of interpolation?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u30	No, no. I'm just trying to prove that the minister is now talking about skeletons, and that he's doing his work over the past nine months, and there are going to be new skeletons that some people will have to solve. And these will be your own skeletons. And in 12 minutes, I've just avoided maps that point to answers that trigger at least moral reservations in a lot of things, and that's probably what other people are going to talk about. It is obvious that in this government, including with your strong ministerial support, it is allowed for new voters to regulate legislation, gradually destroy local self-government, put Slovenians in certain secondary-class laws, have police on their side, reward public servants and trade unions and recruit in the political line, although it is a matter of damaging the state budget and risking the rule of law. The reasons, Minister, why I support your interpretation is more than enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u31	Thank you. Replica has Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I have to replicate my colleague Lisco. He really spoke for two more minutes than I did, but I really focused on the first point of interpretation that talks about endangering the local self-government system. I have therefore focused on local self-government, such as good practices and certain circumstances that I think we will still have to correct in the field of local self-government. That is why I believe that my colleague Lisec does not blame me if I have talked about the fact that unfortunately in the Republic of Slovenia there are also municipalities that unfortunately cannot act to such an extent that there is a proportionality between their own resources and the resources of the State and that there is therefore a need for reflection in the area of change of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u33	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Janji Klasinc, and Mr Zvonko Černač is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Something about interpolation first. I think this document has been one of the weakest documents in recent years in this National Assembly. I have been monitoring many of these interpretations and, as my colleague Kristina mentioned before, they have usually been the cause of some affair, some serious violations or something. It's just that this time it's all more on broken legs. With regard to the area of local self-government, I would say that I have never heard anyone write an interpretation for something that is thought and debated, something that is proposed and no government decision has yet been adopted, not a document and not a law that we can rely on. If the Minister thinks about some future reform of local self-government, he has the right to think about it because he is in charge. Not only right, but even duty to think about it. Personally, I think that the area of local self-government is a very important area. I am among those who advocate a thorough reform of this local self-government, and I myself think we have too many municipalities, but we must be very careful not to intervene administratively in this matter in the future. I think that this matter needs to be carefully considered that it is not a matter of coalition, but should be discussed over time by all parliamentary parties, including local communities, and come to some common points where we would then eventually build some things. I did not agree with the quick solutions yourself, because as you go into detail as quickly as possible, the more you see how our wrong practices have led to great confusion over the past 20 years, and now some quick solution to the confusion could increase. With regard to the findings of the union agreement, I must say that I am always sorry when any minister appears to have made an agreement with the unions., I am always happy when any minister concludes an agreement with the unions. Because then we know that the lead of the country is going in the right direction. But most of all today, I would like to talk to you about the Minister's apparent lack of rational treatment of the funds relating to the deleted. The issue of deleted is an area that is a constant target – to a lesser extent New Slovenia, because there is not so much time in Parliament and in the larger Slovenian Democratic Party – in the interpretations of all the ministers involved. The first minister to be interpelled for rescue – in my opinion not good enough, partial resolution – was Minister Bohinc of the Drnovškova Government. She was then Minister of Kresalova in the Pahor government and is now in the government of Alenka Bratušek as Minister of Virant. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] In a very strong cooperation with you, because I see you as a proponent. Let's take a look at the interestingness of these interpretations. The first two ministers, I am talking about Minister Bohinc and Minister Kresalova, have tried to make a difference themselves, to solve together with the government's leadership and so on. If I look from the point of view of the proposalr, Minister Virant is the least guilty, but if I look at the whole thing from his own perspective, he is the least responsible for what is now evident to him. It is clear what is actually the enforcement of the decision of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights and it is the responsibility of each legal state to carry out such things. I mean, here sometimes even with the minister we differ in views, the minister repeatedly talks about mistakes in the past on this subject, I think it was not a mistake, but the actions that were very consciously done, that is to say that it did not happen to those politicians that led this policy to extinction, a mistake because no one did anything because of awkwardness, but he did it very consciously. This is my view of solving this issue. The worst part is that the parties who have prepared this interpolation still think today, even after the ruling of the great Senate, that what has been done is all right. They do not see that it was an eccentric violation of human rights and that Slovenia must now pay for it. Unfortunately, so many years later, but she has to. Minister Virant has only found a solution with fellow workers that will lead Slovenia in the current crisis situation to the lowest possible pain, although of course the painful cost that is needed to do so. Personally, I don't think we can pay anymore, but for all the horrors and problems that these people have suffered not only then, but they suffer today, height is not quite appropriate. And when I hear that it's obvious to the Minister that he's trying to help these poor people with some more procedural matters to ease their costs with what this country has done to them, then I really don't understand where we are anymore. Colleagues and colleagues. I think Slovenia proved with yesterday's events that it can take care of itself. That he does not need any tutors from abroad, not in the financial field, nor in respect for respect for human rights, nor in respect for compliance with legal standards in that country. What is being done over the last half year or eight months of permanent incapacitatement of the work of the National Assembly, halting normal operation, bombing with interpolation, of course, Slovenia does not help anything. We must be aware that Slovenia and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are not the ones currently ruling, whether it is now our coalition or rather your coalition, but that we are all Slovenians and Slovenians and all members of all other nations living and being citizens of this country. That is why I think that on the opposition side I would rather expect more control over the exercise of this authority, rather than blocking the work of both the government and this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Klasinc. Mr Zvonko Černač, Mr Matjaž Han, then Mr Branko Kurnjek, Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Ivan Hršak, are next reported for the debate. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Yesterday and in the past, it has been said several times that in the coalition you are the greatest danger to yourself and that you are the one who hoards the work of this National Assembly. Last but not least, you have submitted the most requests for extraordinary meetings and, by the way, this is just another interpretation against the ministers of this government, and two have resigned. So you are yourself the greatest danger and the greatest problem. In the SDS Group, we have joined in supporting this interpretation, which was designed and first designed by the New Slovenia Group of Members, although in our opinion there are still many things to be written about Minister Gregor Virant. However, what is written in the interpolation also stands and is based on severe indications that to date there have been no credible answers. Yesterday, the first one on this interpretation came from the President of the Government, and her first sentence was, "Today is the day we've been waiting for 8 months," and then she went on to say, "Today is the day we proved to you and showed you that we know and today is the day we proved that the only threesome in our country is going to be a home threesome." This was Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek's first sentence in response to the intervention against Minister Gregor Virant. This euphoria apparently, at least after some media reports, the government continued last night to toast the outflow of almost €5 billion of taxpayer money to close the bank hole. The joy of the results of the stress tests was obviously immeasurable, since not an extraordinary session you yourself convened at 10:00 p.m., we had no opportunity to say anything about it. In this way, the government has also symbolically toasted all those responsible for this hole, and we believe that also to its own Minister Roman Jakič, who, with the signing of the contract years ago, has enabled the loan to Grep for Stožice, where the amount covered by the taxpayers exceeds 100 million euros. In this government there is a minister who has contributed significantly to the creation of a billion-dollar bank hole by his past actions. In this government, the finance minister is the former director of one of the sectors of the New Ljubljana Bank, which will absorb about 3 billion national money if we add up everything else that has been placed in it in previous years. Last but not least, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek sat in the supervisory board of the second largest state-owned banks to receive state aid in the period 2009-2011, sitting in the NLB supervisory council. So it is clear why there is a problem in this government and in this coalition with the determination of responsibility. Immunity before this exercise of responsibility is, of course, offered by the domestic troika to the greatest extent, so taxpayers will pay five times as much as they need to, and those who are most responsible for it will never be responsible. Finally, the Minister responsible for the police or internal affairs will take care of this in cooperation with the Minister, who comes from the same list and is responsible for the prosecution and the courts. What, then, is the common feature of all Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, including the minister on the wallpaper today? The common feature is the reference to high moral-ethical standards in the public, double-faced deception, speaking one and in practice doing something else until they get them fingered in marmalade. One after another, they lose credibility and integrity, which is essential for the effective management of the most responsible functions or tasks. There's no exception to that, either. Let us recall that a consistent advocate for the abolition of compensation was paid to ministers, Members and other public officials after the end of his post, and he himself received full compensation after the end of his ministerial office, and he also earned about 100,000 euros. When this information was published by the media, the difference between the payment of the tax on one and the other compensation it received was returned to the State budget. It's really tricky. He also received a smell replacement at a time when the house was just being built, saying that he was getting compensation for something that was not — if the house was under construction, people could not live in it. For this reason they are not surprised by the story of cheap cards and other things. This duality of Minister Gregor Virant also shows how he went after the lustrations of some of his incompatible chiefs of administrative units when he came to this change of government less than a year ago. These administrative units are in one way or another a political pool from which he supplied his list in the election run, but they are now clearly becoming a political pool for further recruitment, even though they are supposed to be a professional institution that is supposed to carry out state administration tasks at regional level. So he did this in a way that led to his former closest associates – he lusted the former Minister of Higher Education Mojco Kucler Dolinar, who had been sitting with Boža Podalič, who was then the Secretary-General of the Government – and it was not clear to the public that he did this because they were politically incompatible with him because he had this right in accordance with Virant's 2006 law, but he said: "The circumstances of appointment were incompatible with normal practice." What kind of practice? Appointments were made under his 2006 Act [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u37	Mr. Blackach, try to focus on the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u38	That's exactly what I'm talking about. That's exactly what I'm talking about. I believe that it is difficult for my fellow citizens to listen to this, but they also have another option. Democracy is a place for those who know how to serve democratic standards; those who cannot do so do not need to listen. And he continued, Minister Virant, when he was lusturing these chiefs of administrative units who were politically incompatible. "I have assessed that in order to ensure professional, political neutral... blah, blah, the procedures must be repeated." While these proceedings were initiated by his colleague, the Vice-President of the National Gazette, Minister Plicanic, they were published on the basis of his initiation of the procedure and all of these proceedings continued and concluded in accordance with Virant's 2006 law. All the hands were respected, where the shortest eight days were eight days, and all the things in the law were respected. The proceedings were carried out by the competition commissions, in one of which even the chief of staff, Mrs. Nevenka Vratanar, sat, and in one case was even the only candidate who met the conditions, that was Mojca Kucler Dolinar. In short, the procedures were public, transparent, guided in accordance with his 2006 law and instead of honestly saying that they were politically incompatible people with whom he could not work, he wanted to criminalise and defamation procedures in such a humble manner, even by his Vice-President of the Party and Minister's colleague, who is now sitting in the government. That's the problem. The problem is that in these governments there are ministers who speak one word and try to present themselves to the public in one light and work another when it comes to them. Double standards, double criteria, double criteria, shift and so on. This all speaks of these ministers losing the minimum level of credibility necessary for the performance of these responsible functions. The minister stated that he was proud of all that was evident in his interpretation. Minister Gregor Virant is therefore proud of the decommissioning of local self-government in this country and is proud of the threat to the equitable development of this country, because we are talking about the measures being taken in this direction and being documented and also clearly presented. Go ask the mayors and people in the local environment whether they're going this way or not. From the statements we heard yesterday and today, it is clear that the minister in the mayors does not see partners, but enemies, even enemies. The local authorities are his opponent, the enemy. When they had to meet and explain certain things to them in Celje, there was no government, nor was he responsible for this area. There were some references that were afraid of themselves when they saw a crowd of mayors there, of course rightly angry about what was going on. It's a relationship. A minister can't have that kind of relationship. There can be no minister of local self-government who does not cover this area in the interest of the development of local self-government. Why, then, do we need a minister if he sees that those who should be his partners are his opponents and fails to establish an appropriate dialogue? The Minister obviously does not understand that as much as the least developed part of the country will be developed, the whole country will be developed. We cannot have golden taps in Ljubljana and Ljubljana, but perhaps any other municipality, in a privileged way, but in some areas without drinking water. It's an unacceptable policy and it can't be a minister who just doesn't understand it. All measures supported by Minister Gregor Virant are moving towards increasing centralisation, increasing bureaucracy, strengthening the power of the state apparatus at the ministries and at the centre and weakening the power at the local level and at the regional level. It's supposed to be the other way around. One part of this apparatus should be dispersed in regions, one part of the money that is now located in the country should be reduced and more done with the same means as will be done otherwise. Apparently, the minister doesn't understand that. And here's the main clue that I think is essential. If this policy continues to be steered in the wrong direction, it means that this country will continue to invest in development and will continue to achieve low standards of development and everything else. Of course, there is a need for reform, including with regard to the integration of individual local communities and communities, and it will happen sooner and later, but it must happen in dialogue, in partnership with local communities, in cooperation in such a way that some benefits will come from this. That's what's gonna happen. Sooner or later. And if the process were to go in this direction, on one side we would come to the lowest level where it is actually possible, things would come together, and at the same time we would come to this intermediate level of regions that we do not currently have. The second point he's proud of is that he flew with his family with cheap cards, which was not possible for others, and he put some on public prangers. So he's proud of it. He is proud of the excessive and unfair damages and the ratings of the so-called deleted. It will be as much for them as it will be necessary to pay a new allowance for the real estate tax. Indemnities are over forty times higher than for victims of post-war violence. A few more categories of those eligible for compensation due to the damage caused after II. World War II, not settled. It is said that this area is not regulated and, on the other hand, there is an enormously large area that could be arranged more justly and cheaper for the State and, above all, for taxpayers. P He is also proud of the additional unnecessary burden on the payment of this difference to public servants, which will occur with the payment of enormous interest. And today we have heard that the Minister will be working on a new reform of his 2008 reform. He will be doing a reform of the salary system, this is his reform, by which the directors of public institutions at local level are paid better than the mayors and by which the directors of certain public institutions under state responsibility are paid better than the President of the Government or ministers. Will the Minister hold on? Although we hear that there is a great mystery in some parliamentary groups, it will, of course, remain because Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek needs it. That's exactly what she said yesterday. Yesterday, we were able to hear that it doesn't matter how, how, how the minister works, whether he deceives, whether he's credible or credible or not credible. The one we need to continue to rule will be supported. That's what she told the people yesterday, Alenka Bratusek. That way, Minister Gregor Virant will remain Minister only because this coalition needs him. Without him, there's no government. He will remain Minister to hold the position of those who need to rule for a while to protect those who have stolen millions from Slovenian banks. Such ministers, who are without personal integrity, are a major problem for taxpayers, but obviously without elections they will not be able to resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Braniselj, do you have a procedural procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u40	However, I would ask the President to implement the Rules of Procedure at this meeting. A businessman is the foundation of democracy. And we can talk about democracy when we respect the rules of procedure. I note that it has not been respected for quite some time, but especially not at this point that Mr Chernač had. He spoke three quarters of his performance about things that had nothing to do with interpretation. There's no evidence of interpolation. And the Minister can't even prepare for such an appearance and can't even answer it. And that's because it's incorrect. This provision is in order to prevent this. This is the foundation of democracy and I ask that it be respected. President, you have this assignment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Braniselj, you may have noticed that, in one part of Mr Cernač's debate, I have also warned in the meantime that I am focusing on interpolation and the content of interpolation. Please proceed with procedure, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We would be obliged to warn Mr Branisl that he violated the rules of procedure when he notified himself of the debate. He could have a replica, he could have requested a debate within the time available to his delegation. However, what he proposed had nothing to do with the procedural proposal. I myself have acted in accordance with the rules of procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, and I have spoken precisely about what is the subject of interpretation and exactly what was said in the context of this interpretation yesterday before me Prime Minister Mrs Alenka Bratušek, some Members of this National Assembly and so on. Nothing else. And if you would like me to read again the first sentence of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, on which I justified my discussion, which she said in response to the presentation of the interpretation of mags. Tonino. "Today is the day we've been waiting for eight months," said the prime minister. "Today is the day we proved to you and showed you that we know and today is the day we proved that the only threesome in our country will be the home threesome." She said that as the first sentence in response to the impressions of interpolation, and I will not repeat anything else that has been said about these readings. By the way, even if the Minister wanted to respond to what I have just said here today, I couldn't, because my entire debate was not in the Chamber, Mr Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u43	Thank you very much. This does not mean that you are not being listened to by a government representative, Mr Chernač, so I would not. However, as regards procedural proposals, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, several rather hurtful words were also discussed several times, such as those relating to officials at the Ministry. That's what bothered me. I am trying to stick to the rules of procedure and I also want to take the meeting forward properly. Shall we proceed? Mr. Branisel, do you want to replicate yet? Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u44	We're both lawyers, and we're gonna know what the second paragraph of Article 75 says, and I don't think anything else is necessary. Let's follow the rules of procedure, and this is my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach? Please focus on the procedure, not the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u46	You know, Madam President, that I always follow your recommendations. I've never let you down before, and I won't let you down this time. I was obviously misunderstood. In view of what you have said, I find that I have been misunderstood, so I would like to clarify this in accordance with the rules of procedure. I did not offend any official at the Ministry, but I said that at a meeting convened by all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia and both associations, both the Association of Municipalities and the Community of Slovene municipalities, which was in Celje, where the President of the Government was invited and, of course, the first minister responsible for local self-government, was not one of the government teams, but it was an important issue that he was not just a local community, but all the citizens of this country. It was about explaining the burden of future property tax and the consequences of this, because municipalities, institutions and so forth will have to pay taxes for schools, kindergartens, some firehouses, some other public buildings that have not been paid so far. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u47	This is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u48	Of course it is! And at this meeting there were two officials from the Ministry, that's what I said. Of course, they were frightened when they saw probably 210 or 211 mayors in front of them, all with very little problem, expecting responsible people — the Prime Minister, the minister, and so on — and none of them were there. And I didn't insult them, and I complimented them on coming to the mayors and trying to tell them what was expected of the Minister who was responsible for the area of local self-government. That's what the purpose was. So in this part of implementation, I was obviously misunderstood because you said that I was insulting these people, these officials. I didn't hurt them. I told the facts, just like they did. But they were insulted by both the Prime Minister and the Minister, who was not there. And they really insulted them for sending them somewhere where they weren't competent to talk about these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u49	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal and, above all, I want us to discuss correctly without offending anyone, especially those who are not there. As your candidate, you have the floor, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u50	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Once again, as one of the signatories to the interpretation, as a proposaler, I must express great disappointment that we are asking Dr. Gregor Virant here with specific questions, and after a few hours of discussion, the Minister has not given me one more or no answer. We listen to lectures which, of course, are used to, which is, of course, its virtue, its decoration, and the image is that the minister is responsible for Members, whether they are of the coalition or of the opposition. And here I would like to remind the Minister again, as many times as I stress here, man stands and falls on ethics. Politician stands and falls on ethics. The Minister stands and falls on ethics. And it's really hard to imagine, and I hope that it'll never happen to me, that I'll ever have to pay attention to my associates or my ex-partners. What must happen in the soul of a man illustrating his co-worker, a colleague of the minister with whom he once sat at numerous government meetings and made good decisions for this country together? And what must happen in the soul of a man who lustrates his former coworker? I believe it is difficult for you to answer this question by yourself, even by yourself. But these are his personal decisions, these are not party decisions, because I greatly appreciate colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Gazette, who certainly had nothing to do with these decisions of Mr Virant's Minister of Interior. When he simply remembered and said that Mojca Kucler Dolinar could not be the head of the administrative unit Ljubljana because some of them were not allowed to apply for the invitation or invitation. We can come up with at least 500 of these reasons. And the ignorance we're experiencing yesterday and today. We are simply speaking here in an empty language, but the Minister is not and is keen on our debates. Of course, you can't sit here all day, of course you can't, because you have at least biological needs if you don't do something else. It would be correct, however, for him to respond to what we read in writing and orally in interpretation, because this is actually the essence of the interpretation, so that we can clarify, vote and conclude at the end of the matter. That's how a mechanism called democracy works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! First, I will respond to Mr Horvath's words and ask him if he thinks what I'm about to say is not a hypocrisis. On 17 October 2013, your parliamentary group requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on "Stop Poverty". Mrs. Iva Dimic says it is true. There was talk about how many unemployed we have, how poverty is, how many people don't get a job for years and years. Now the answer to that is that you mentioned Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar got a job seven months before she got her job. Isn't that a hypocrisy? That's it, the answer to your performance. Now I would touch myself, if I could, with the interpretation itself and really its contents. First of all, I would like to see as many citizens as possible read the content of the interpretation, because we would see that it is empty and, of course, proves the answer to this mere interpretation. What if we go in the right order? First deleted. 26. 6. 2012 we received the judgement of the Grand Senate, where it was stated that our country must in one year definitively regulate the payment of the wrongs or settle the status of the deleted. Is the law that Mr Virant has brought to the National Assembly, which has been endorsed by most Members, ideal? I don't believe it. I doubt it. There are no perfect laws. But at that point, we believed that it was the best possible thing to do at that time, as it was possible to deal with the deleted themselves. Imagine that the Minister would be someone on your side and would be the predecessor of Mr Virant, who, in a good half a year, except for the establishment of a group, would not come with any proposal to the National Assembly itself. Or imagine that we would go before the great Senate to take a law full of demogologies and quotations to Strasbourg or say 50 pages of procedural proposals. Probably couldn't handle it. You tell him the financial consequences are undefined. That's not true. The limit is set from up to and it is also stated how these financial consequences will later be paid to the deleted. Under the second point, wage imbalances, i.e. the abolition of the third quarter of wage imbalances and the "famous" interest provided by Minister Virant to the acquittals. Let us not forget that he acted on the basis of the Supreme Court's decision. And he told all of us several times that, if only the possibility and the financial means allow it, the payment of these disproportionates of the third quarter will be made before the deadline for the second part of the payment expires, that is, in a good year. I don't know if we might need to hear better in our national otorinolaringologist's choir, because the Minister has repeatedly said publicly and loudly that if and if the financial situation were to allow it, he would have done it immediately and he didn't have this option. And the perception that he did someone a favor is really unworthy. Third thing. Negotiation with the unions. The Minister said exactly what was the basis for the negotiations you were reading to him. He acted on the basis of the Labour Relations Act, reached a compromise agreement and explained who is justifiable and, of course, what are the financial implications in a positive direction for our public finances. That's something you like to forget. Unfortunately, in this national assembly there is talk of trifling, you can see the fly, but the elephant is overlooked. The next thing was the congregations and local government. The minister was just talking about something. Yeah, I agree, maybe he said too fast, that's his nature. Should I judge him and interpret him because he says something too quickly and thinks in public? Is he therefore worthy of such a conviction that he must hire a ministerial space? Perhaps, however, this statement encouraged the thinking of all, including those on your part, who agree that changes are needed in this area. Perhaps this will lead to a better conclusion in the end when things begin to take place in practice and before things begin to come into procedure. I myself came to this National Assembly on the day that Minister Virant of the President of the National Assembly sat here before me, which at that time formally meant the collapse of the coalition. We all know why, and I don't want to warm it up. However, I would like to say that the spilling of manure on a former partner is unworthy. I don't know, maybe in 16 years you'll be able to reassemble the government and you'll need Minister Virant. I don't know, maybe. Look, I am deeply convinced in myself that you also know that Minister Virant is doing well, but for political reasons you cannot admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If you get a question, it is designed to answer, although this may not be in accordance with the rules of procedure, but the image is above the rules of procedure. Dear colleague Kurnjek, why Mojca Kucler Dolinar got a job after you calculated 7 months before we had so many unemployed and so on, I will not answer you. I would ask you to ask your client colleague, Minister Senko Plitčanič, because he then announced the call. And the invitation, as you probably know, lays down the deadlines after which the procedures run out and so the matter was properly carried out to the end. Yeah, it's true, spilling manure on your ex-partner isn't very good. She's a partner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mrs Polonca Komar and Mr Samo Bevk are to be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Let me start by saying I'll support the interpolation. I may have had some other concerns at the outset, but the discussions I am hearing, in particular the Minister's answers to the questions raised in the interpretation, are increasingly convincing me that it was right that we supported this interpretation and that we should try to replace the Minister in this position. Why such a decision? Much has been said about congregations. I am particularly disturbed by the fact that, as in his custom, the Minister first examines all his decisions in public, checks public opinion, first tests the response of the people and only later the professional public, and not least of us in Parliament. He did the same thing when he was president of the National Assembly. Despite the things agreed on, he first tried to convince the media that he was right, but later, of course, it is very difficult to withdraw. I don't think this type of work is appropriate for a credible minister. And it does this over and over again – first it throws the bone into the public, which is later very difficult to remove from this public perception. This has also been done with the initiative of abolishing municipalities and demeaning small municipalities, giving very distasteful examples of how small municipalities fail to reach an agreement and therefore suffers from the state and the state budget. He gave an example of the Pomeranian water pipeline, where it was already explained how the issue was taking place and how a large number of municipalities and mayors were able to reach consensus. On the other hand, this theory cannot hold, for at one end of the world, large congregations, which would not have been abolished under any legislation, cannot agree on a waste dump. A colleague sitting opposite me yesterday also discussed this and acted a little ignorant, but the fact is that the size of the congregation does not mean that it is a congregation that is successful, credible and that can carry out its tasks. In principle, we can all agree that there are too many congregations, but the withdrawal process cannot run in such a way that we first prepare everything for the media and do a survey in the largest cities, where we ask if they are for the abolition of small congregations. This poll can't be any different than it's positive. If we did the opposite and went to the periphery first and asked if they were to abolish the congregations, the result would be different and the minister would probably think differently on this basis. And above all, it's on my part the obvious that I'm giving him. Change of criteria for funding municipalities as well. First, he throws another thesis on how things will change, then he clears up the response, but we bring it into ZIPro, and the municipalities will get less money. That's what they're waiting for. The same applies to initiatives to amend regulations and laws governing the financing of municipalities. As far as "successful negotiation" is concerned, much has been said. We point out that it was still an opportunity to pay off immediately. However you turn, the fact is that this can be arranged, given that you can easily get credit, as you say, in the open market. So, if it's willful, there's a way to find a solution. The other thing that really bothers me is its duality in this moralization and labelling, when all of us who are public servants, who are Members and also ministers, must respect morality, high ethical principles and so on. And when we compare his statements in different cases, it would be hard to say. The fact that, when his former fellow Member of the parliamentary group represents his position, he leaves the hall shows that he does not tolerate constructive criticism. And his responses in the cases that have been in this House are very different. For example, his response to Stephnik and his response, for example, to Omerzel, clearly shows that he has absolutely double criteria, and this really bothers me. Even in the case of airline tickets, which also appear to be interpolation, there are double criteria. You've probably been yourself, at least I've been in some KPK procedures and they're all closed. Interesting. And his can't possibly be concluded, because it's a very demanding process and "nothing" but here we come to the great ethical and morality that he's been teaching us all the time and trying to impose. It should be in his interest that this procedure should be concluded, not in the interest of the KPK, because once the ball has been thrown away and there is an ethicality and should be, in the interest of him as a person, not as a minister, it is necessary to ensure that the procedure which has been initiated and we all know that the procedures at the KPK are still in the process of being completed by a decision published online and, if it is not in the interest of the KPK, it should be in the interest of the Minister to conclude this. Until then, we have no right to be philosophical about morality and ethics. When we get articles or information on how the VIP cards are regulated, when it is in office, when it travels abroad, and what tortures are subjected to, those who communicate with either the Minister or the President of the National Assembly, we become even more confident that the cards were not clear. There are certain articles that guide us, and I would very much like to hear his answer, whether these consciences and these news we receive are also true, because if it is true that this is how it behaves with VIP cards and exploits its importance, then I have no doubt that even in those previous cards where the process is not yet completed, everything has not been clear. As you all say, as long as the matter is under way, we must let someone else be innocent or guilty, but still. Let me stress once again that after six or seven months when the case began, it is in the interests of the Minister and the person of Dr Gregor Virant to resolve this matter, not in the interest of the KPK. And from that point of view, I can no longer trust him as a minister. By doing so, both in legislation and in other measures, I am very concerned that he will do much more damage in the next step.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr Zvonko Lah is next in line, followed by Mrs Polonca Komar, Mr Just Bevk, Mr Dragutin Mate and Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would have started with what the Minister's MP, Mr Starman, said to myself yesterday, that the Minister is quite a bit of a rush to get into something he's not sure about or he's confident of, and then he doesn't pull it off. At the time of the European Basketball Championship, the Minister was called for echoes and the leader asked him how much they would save by abolishing the municipalities. Virant replied that 100 million. "And will you be able to bring this to the next local election?" "We have the support of coalition partners. I think you can. We will." And then there's the third thing. "Are you going to take funds from the municipalities in the 2014 budget, given the need to squander." "No, we will not take any funds from the congregations, they will get as much as they have so far. And I'm behind it." Not first, not second, not third, it wasn't true. With 100 million people, we know that it was a matter of intimidating small congregations, likely with a view to withdrawing or sneezing the law, or of accepting that their funds would be taken away. Second. How it's gonna work out. It has proved impossible to hold referendums and surveys in those congregations that are being abolished, and the outcome would probably be different than it is now. And last but not least, the government budgeted for 2014 for the municipalities to take a huge amount of money. First with real estate tax, second with ZIPRO and third with the preparation of the Law on the Financing of Communities, where it favors large municipalities with dense population and takes to those small, rural municipalities where they now receive some funding on the principle of underdevelopment. This is the work of Minister Virant – to scare, to run into something, and then nothing. Is there any harm done if the Minister does so? Of course it is. The minister should be careful what he says. He should stand by his own words. On one of the committees, I said that it was a shame that there was no minister to tell him in the face — and also I cannot give him — that he knew almost nothing or very little about local self-government. That is why his attitude toward self-government is. Until what we find almost all that works the most in Slovenia. At this time, municipalities have 70% of all investments in Slovenia. They have largely prepared projects to draw on European funds, but from 2014, for which budgets have already been adopted and all financial resources are planned and distributed, approximately one third of all the funds available for investments are taken. All municipalities will have to adopt budget rebalancies, delete certain projects and probably also take money from the Cohesion Fund for European projects, whose implementation will therefore be questionable. We are getting information from Brussels that Slovenia is supposed to leave around 2 billion European money due to a lack of funds or projects that have not been implemented. On the last day when the minister was on the committee, former Minister Stepišnik himself insisted that there would be a lot of money left if we did not do something quickly, but Mr Virant did not say anything about it, although he was in charge of local self-government and he would also be guilty of not being able to draw on this money. He should be an advocate of local self-government, not as counterpart Cernač has already said that he sees opponents, enemies in the mayors of local self-government. Perhaps because all the mayors were elected in direct elections and had to receive more than 50% of the votes of those who went to the elections so that they could be mayors. He, as far as I know, never did this test. Maybe that's why. And speaking of duality, it's already been said here. In the case of Janez Janša and KPK, he came to the camera earlier than official information had been given to the public. Last time he talked about his minister, Omerzel, he walked past the camera like he hated microphones. And we all know they don't. Why such double standards? When something suits you, you have to make the most of it when you don't. Mr Praprotnik said following the KPK's resignation that his problem with airline tickets is still being processed so that it is not yet completed. The European Commission also says that the presumption of innocence takes as long as there is no legal conviction. While there is no appeal against the PKK, we all know what structures have been designed for one another, with ten times the amount of fraud or unproven assets evident to the other, and nothing happens and the Minister hears that he is active, alerted and endeavoring to get away with it. No, no, no. The goal has been achieved and now there is no need. I can't forget his cynical statement yesterday that said what the president of our party was like. What do you make clear to him or why he's convicted? I don't think I'm gonna forget that expression for a long time. Apparently it's a minister, a man who's not worthy of the job he does. My old father said a long time ago, the worst thing for people will be when a servant is Minister, and apparently we are in these times when certain ministers are just like that, and that's why it's so hard for us. And it'll be even harder for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. You must have a procedural one, Mr. Braniselle. I just wanted to stop and warn you that you're trying to discuss as properly as possible, not insult people and mark them with servants. Here you go, Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u60	I can't do anything but protest. What servants? What kind of word is that for a minister of this government, this country? If we don't have an ethical code in our heads, it doesn't help us. Vice President, please respond to such things.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. That sentence I repeated was the last sentence. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. A replica? You can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it. Do you have a procedure? You can have that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! If you are criticising the implementation of MEPs and Members, I would ask you to respond even when the Minister is offensive to Members and Members. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I'll definitely stick to that. So once again, I warn everyone in the Chamber that we stick to the Rules of Procedure in the debates and do not insult anyone. I ask for the correctness of the debates. Mrs. Polonca Komar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. It is quite difficult to debate and debate in such an atmosphere. We have to realize for once that people are watching us. Sometimes we like it, but sometimes it's not the best thing to do. We've been sitting here for hours and hours now, actually the second day, and we're turning our words around. One more, the other less correct, one more, the other less dignified. I'm quite happy, because the words we say are words that speak of us. That is why I think we should think very carefully about what we then say, because discrediting and demeaning conduct do not belong to our national assembly. The fact is that Gregor Virant is an effective minister and therefore has very many opponents. I've looked at our old thinkers a little bit – I have a grandfather too, but I prefer to look at what the old thinkers say – and Aristotle says, for example, "There's only one way to avoid criticism – that you don't act like you don't talk and that you just don't exist." And that's how it is. Our Minister Gregor Virant doesn't know this way. I must say, today is the second day we're on a completely misinterpretation. If we just remember how difficult this interpolation was, because the opposition colleagues couldn't get together, what would they have written in that interpolation, who would have signed it, and who wouldn't have signed it. All of this points to the "reality" of this content that we are considering today. And when the opposition colleagues finally found a way to interpret Minister Virant, they completely missed the target. Why? Because they have shown that our minister is effective, that he works hard. He has dealt effectively with unregulated areas so far, and has dealt with cases brought before him and brought before us by the European Court of Justice. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's not about saying the right things, it's about doing the right thing. Now we go to the interpolation and to the sins of Minister Gregor Virant. First impression that he pulled the idea of gathering congregations out of his sleeve. Dearly beloved, we are talking about an idea, and in the developed world, ideas are welcome, they are part of progress, they are urgent. And what are we doing? We're troubleshooting these ideas. Let's move from idea to fact. As early as 2013, the Court of Auditors pointed out the following: small municipalities use more on average; municipalities' indebtedness is increasing; the number of employees in municipalities is increasing; external contractors’ costs are higher in smaller municipalities. KPK also found a number of violations. And all these analyses only indicate that a thorough reform is necessary. And that's what's expected of the minister. I would understand that we would expect his resignation if he did not regulate this area. We are going to the next "sins" of Gregor Virant – social dialogue. We live in a country where the union has its word. We need to talk to the union, we need to negotiate. It's because we live in a democratic country. And the encounter with the unions this time led to the Minister's interpretation, although the agreement resulted in a suspension of the sentence and a major positive impact on the state budget. Let's also see "sin" about eraseds. First of all, let me say that first of all, the values of the Civil Code are human rights and the fight for justice. And what did the minister do this time? It ensured the implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. What would you, a respected opposition, do if it were your minister or what your minister would do — would you respect the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court? And once again, if the Minister hadn't followed this judgment, I would have understood that we would have expected his resignation. Why? Because this would mean that Slovenia does not respect international obligations, human rights and fundamental freedoms and that this would lead to significantly greater financial consequences for Slovenia. It is the duty of the Minister to follow the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Justice. It is the duty of the Minister to negotiate with the unions for the benefit of society, the state, the citizens. It is the duty of the Minister to effectively pursue local self-government and from the idea draft to implementation. And that's what Minister Virant does. So don't throw pollen under his feet. You better let him work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate has the floor. Then it's Mrs. Alenka Jeraj for her mag. Jana Jenko and Mr Marko Pavlišič. Mr. Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. I intended to adhere as much as possible to the text of the interpretation and the answers, but we already went in the introduction of the Minister outside these frameworks and then with a large number of discussions, not only on the part of colleagues from my parliamentary group, but from all the parliamentary groups. That's why I'm going to say something about things that have been specifically mentioned. But I'm not gonna open it, or at least I hope I don't open up any more. It was very nice to hear, in the introduction of the Minister, that he has much work to do now to lead the ministry, which is now joined by two pillars. It is necessary for the Slovenian public to say that such a ministry existed by 2004 and then split into two different resources due to the special wishes of individuals to lead only one part of the ministry, which was then called the public administration. It is now united again, and I think it is so true that the Minister of the Interior does such work as ministers do in comparable countries or in the vast majority of European countries where they deal with local self-government, with the work of the police and, of course, also with public servants and also conduct negotiations on them. I should have touched another point, namely the stickers mentioned here several times and savings. I remember the first reactions when the compensation was published, which is just to be paid because the court so decided. However, I must say that when the Minister received all the information when the services brought him all the information that I had publicly pointed out at the time, he held the necessary meetings with the services and the defence authorities to initiate the audit procedures. He did very well here. It is very difficult for a person to admit that he saved 7 million because the justice system has seen and eliminated a minor error. I hope the Minister didn't have an influence on the court that changed the decision. I believe that, and I've only said that to clarify these matters and that we don't have any confusion. With regard to local self-government and this famous decision to reduce and negotiate between those Members who support the Minister and those who have tabled the interpretation. I have seen in the debate that some document which has been published is not so important that it changes that it was only one introduction into all matters. Of course it's not that innocent. Many words were said about it, and here the minister contributed to the oil being poured onto the fire, especially with some statements about the construction of circulars, fountains and so on. I wouldn't touch the fountain, but I'd touch the circles. The circles are extremely important, even in the smallest places, in the smallest village. And it's in two ways where they're both important for road safety. Firstly, each circle increases the flow and safety of drivers, because drivers need to reduce speed and Europe has been proven to be the best way to regulate and calm traffic in settlements. In Europe and in recent times, we are also made by islands entering the village, which automatically force drivers to lower speed to the right level, so that it seems unnecessary for the Minister to try to show the unnecessary need for work at the local level. The municipalities have done much good; perhaps there is too much of a congregation; perhaps there is too little, but there is a need to talk about it in a different way, a much more patient way, and the minister’s procedures and reactions have not contributed. What is more, they have caused a lot of excitement, a lot of bad will, and we don't need to do that, especially before the local elections, and I don't know how the Minister intends to end these procedures at the time before the local elections, because otherwise it will take some time for all of this to take place. He also liked to touch the subject of deleted, very briefly, and without much controversy about why and how we made our decision. I would like to touch that the minister made it very clear yesterday: "Right hand would never fix this problem. Not now, not in this way, but in a different way." Of course that's not true. The Minister knows precisely that they were very serious intentions and that very serious work was put into solving these matters in 2007 by constitutional law. I was personally involved in these proceedings, and Minister Virant was then a minister and also contributed to the discussions that we held within the government. We had a strategy. Indeed, there was a proposal — that there would then be no obvious — that initially said that there should be no compensation, but it was a niche that was like a negotiating platform, where Parliament would then give up and agree on some rational level of compensation that would be necessary for those who were really affected by these procedures. I do not believe that 25 000 have been affected, but I hope that the Ministry will indeed carry out what it says will deal with the cases individually, and that there will be no basis for the decision issued to them by the Ministry. I am personally aware of cases where administrative units have sent certificates to the Ministry of the Interior that people have officially checked out of their temporary or permanent residence in Slovenia, gone to another country and re-registered, while receiving confirmation that they have lived continuously in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia since 1991. Such shortcomings have not taken place under the mandate of Minister Virant, but it is up to him to remedy them and to be careful in these matters, especially because he is warned of this. So here are some things we need to look out for. A colleague from the Civil Service List attributed to the Minister the outstanding success of police procedures – she said in her performance that the investigation increased by more than 60% during the Minister's ministry. It has indeed increased, but it is also true that the procedures run for a long time and that they have started in previous periods, some even a few years ago. If the Minister really has credit for what he has heard from one of the Members, then I ask him how the citizens can, for example, I personally watched the diary and was amazed when I listened to some kind of growling of the prosecution and the police, that they do not have access to the bank's data and that the bank is inoperable. If proceedings are brought against an institution in accordance with the law, if the prosecutor's proposals are made for this, if the court has ordered certain measures against an investigator, the bank is nothing other than another citizen. The police can take whatever they need, and they can work with it. And by hearing the institutions, one of them is directly or indirectly subordinated to the minister, that they are inoperable in the bank, I simply cannot accept it, I do not understand it, and the minister also has the opportunity to check with internal control what is going on. I don't know if that kind of surveillance has been introduced, and I don't know if the police have exercised all their powers. There's another area where the police didn't do everything they could. We have this famous theme about counterfeit driving licences or purchased driving licences, forged exams, and so on. According to the information we hear in the public, administrative proceedings against thousands of 500 or 2,000 people will now be initiated. The police have the opportunity to seize the evidence, the evidence, and take away all these driver's licenses. He can take them away in the procedures he has. If the police do not see this for themselves, the minister in his ministry has a Directorate that can back it up, the minister can give them guidance – the minister does not give guidance only once a year, but he can also give them in between – and this is particularly important. I also say some things because it has been said that we must tell the truth in Parliament, that we do not manipulate matters and that we must be as consistent as possible. This has been stated several times by the Minister in his performances, and we must therefore tell all the truths. There was talk of skeletons falling. One of such skeletons is to negotiate with trade unions on wage imbalances or freezes by the former Minister of one of the previous governments in 2010. Unfortunately, this is not a skeleton, Mr Minister, you are the one who has been negotiating since 2001 and 2002 as Secretary of State and then as Minister have been preparing a whole reform of the public sector's salary system, so you are very familiar with this. You yourself have made many statements about the reaction and have given warnings to then Minister Krebs, what and why and what consequences this may have. You have always warned her very correctly, even publicly, and this cannot be a skeleton for you because you knew this would come to the table sooner or later. I only explain this so that we can have the whole picture and know how and what. About the anti-corruption commission. Here the views changed at different times. I remember very well myself, Minister, when you strongly advocated for the commission to be abolished, because such as it is, it has no leverage and cannot work. And then you changed your mind, and that's right. We all develop, we think differently, we get different views, we look at things from other angles, and I accept them. But it only bothers me if someone says that he has never changed his mind about one thing, because we all change it occasionally or permanently because of the various data available to us and the circumstances in which we find ourselves. I would like to draw attention to two things that have been mentioned here many times today. More people were talking about the change of head of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit. I believe or believe until yesterday that there is someone who is very professional, who does well and can guide his subordinates. And yesterday, I found out about a case that's very worrying. A person in Slovenia has been notified that this and this day her personal document, ID card, is leaking to her, and that she can arrange it on any administrative unit. When this person came to the administration unit in Ljubljana on Tobacco, stepped into the window, as it came in, brought the old person, the picture and everything he needed to arrange it, the official threw this person very rudely out of the counter and told her to come and arrange it the day the ID expired. Then the parents of this "child", this person, who was about 20 years old, called what was going on and warned officials that if you didn't have a valid ID, it was 800 euros. A cop gives you a fine right now, on the spot. They answered that they misunderstood and so on. In short, I'm talking about putting some people in some jobs doesn't eliminate the serious shortcomings that can happen. And we can imagine a young man who has such experience with an official. Second of all, who's he gonna go out there with? Someone at this age doesn't know all the rules. This kind of behavior of officials is unacceptable, Minister. I hope you'll be able to react to such things and alert administrative units. But most of all, in the whole matter of your negotiations, which is also the subject of interpolation, it has interfered with the conclusion of your negotiations with the unions. We all talk about how successful it was, how good it was. My colleagues drew attention to the difficulties with the interest to be paid. But there's something else that bothers me about this agreement. I do not know why and on what basis the directors of Slovenian schools receive letters – on which there is no name not to be seen – requiring employees: "In accordance with Article 3 of the Annex to the Collective Contract for the Activities of Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. of 46 of 29. 5. 2013, we request payment of 20% of the higher anniversary prize for the members of the SWIZ." That's what this negotiation says. I don't know what the minister had the basis to promise only teachers and educators who are members of the union for others, not 20% higher payment of jubilee awards. It's the taxpayer's money. It's the taxpayer's money. Completely unwarranted. Of course, in this way it is easy to buy peace from the unions. Easy. Maybe it's somewhere else so defined, but it's unacceptable. Now we can get out some agreements with the unions and I don't know what else to do, but at a time when public spending is declining, when resources are falling, when we don't have the money for everything we want just because someone is a member of the SWIZ union, they belong to 20% of the higher anniversary prize. Please! And there are also amounts of what is the amount for normal members and what is the amount for employees who are members of the union. For a 10-year working period, the difference from €288.75 to €346.51, with a 20-year prize of €433.11 to €519.66 and for thirty years from €577.51 to €693.1. With what basis, Mr. Secretary? Who gave you such powers to spend taxpayers' money and thus buy social peace between members of the education union? This is absolutely unacceptable, and that is not speaking in mind. Such papers shall be kept by the members of the union and delivered to the directors, of course, among whom they pay well, while others have difficulties and then experience the ugly words of the union members, what they will do to them if they fail to do so, as this is in accordance with Article 3 of the Annex. That's why I think, Minister, that the interpellation filed is justified, and it's only right that you should be removed from the city you occupy because of such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Alenka Jeraj, and the Magi is prepared for her. Jana Jenko, Mr Marko Pavlišič and then we proceed. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Some have said that today we smile with this interpolation and that the interpolation is wrong. At the same time, they gave an example of interpretation against Mrs Kresal, which is a very bad case. Mrs Kresalova then resigned precisely because of what we read in her interpretation. We also had an intervention against Minister Luksic for money for the Stožice, because we were punished by the European Union for misappropriating money, which was also in the interpretation which otherwise failed. Today we are witnessing the investigations of the Complaints project and apparently time shows that the interpretation was justified. So it's probably someone else who's smiling, not us. And only with regard to the flight manifest. Last time in the show, Mr Klemenčič said that they had found that we should review 3,000 900 cards and that it would be a big thing. We will probably not be able to wait for it now because the anti-corruption commission has resigned or has been significantly more involved in other areas since its resignation, and I fear that they will not do their work to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the floor, followed by Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am deeply afraid that this is not an interpretation of the Minister's work, but a more therapeutic session to alleviate the mental pain of those who cannot accept the loss of power. And in doing so, we are doing our best to help you, to listen to you, and to provide you with an adequate understanding with the confidence that you will eventually be able to do so through this trauma. Dear interpealers, are you aware that you've been coordinating for two months, what is supposed to be in the interpolation? That the main initiator is New Slovenia, it is clear. Because of Mrs. Mojce Kucler Dolinar, who was appointed by the previous government to a position strong before a reasonable deadline. But since you have spent so much time interpolating together, it is clear that in the meantime you have realized that this point is not relevant because the Minister's decision was correct. If we took another two months, we'd find that the other points make a similar sense. Since you haven't taken that time, we'll tell you now, and I suggest you listen well. It starts something like this. "For attempts to endanger local self-government..." Excuse me, but now opening the debate room is just an attempt at endangering something? Most Slovenes share the view that in Slovenia we simply have too many municipalities to go too deep in this division. That being so, it is clear to all of us, since the National Assembly has for several years not confirmed the establishment of any new congregation. Don't worry, there's still interest. There are still a number of wannabe mayors who have their own interests and some also sit in this national assembly. It is right that we have local self-government and excellent mayors who care for their citizens, but in this high choir we need to look a little wider and think carefully about what local self-government we need. For you, thinking is too much and the reason for interpolation. And if any minister were to really propose a law that you don't like, that's no reason to interpret. You simply reject such a law because you are doing well to vote against good proposals. Finally, you voted against the Banking Act, which allowed access to bank data to the courts, the prosecution and the police in the case of bank crimes. If you were a constructive opposition, which you didn't, you could have amended it, but for you, thinking is just a problem. The debate on the restructuring of local self-government has been turbulent, public and comprehensive and has clearly demonstrated the direction in which it is appropriate to take the reforms of local self-government that are needed. We're in this together. Is any congregation today less than it was at the time of this government’s appearance, as you obviously want to show? Then why the interpolation? Because we've been thinking about it. Because the minister was thinking. You also see to the Minister the solution to the problem of deleted. Have you thought about interpreting the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights? And why not? The law adopted by this National Assembly is an expression of respect for human rights, the principles of the rule of law and the international judicial institutions, and at this point you can only read out one thing to the Minister. That he wasn't capable as his predecessors put this problem under the rug. And I'm sure you can count on that for the future. The sweeping of the problems under the carpet, where they then begin to rot and smell, is not a policy either of this minister or of the Civil Code. You may disagree, but that's just your problem. One of the many you have. Do you remember, or did your memory go away? I'll read it to you. Chapter eight, first point of the coalition agreement. "The judicial branch of the authorities, which must remain independent in the trial, will be invited to cooperate to restore the reputation and authority of the judiciary. In doing so, we will contribute to this authority by unconditional respect for judicial decisions." And here is the signature – Mr Janez Janša, Slovenian Democratic Party. What about today? Today, you oppose the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, you oppose the execution of the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, you request the discharge of the Minister who has ensured the correct implementation of these judgments. Did you then conclude this coalition contract with a fig in your pocket or the whole of Slovenia fig today? Dear colleagues, hands up those who went to see the airline tickets when Minister Virant showed them to you? I can't see anyone because you're not interested in the facts. That's why. You're interested in cheap populism. I am particularly disappointed with a gentleman of your kind who obviously has an affidavit to aviation in general. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u71	Mr Pavlišič, as correct as possible, not appraising and insulting, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u72	It is the praise of Mr Breznik, who very well knows the entire fleet of Adria aircraft, formerly and now, that this area really controls well and you can be pleased to have such an expert among you. And when we were waiting together for a plane in Vilnius, and I asked him to check out what grade our card was, so that we wouldn't get a suspicion of any corruption later, if we happen to have a map from the "harvest" class, or "sharvest" class, he didn't find the class card we were carrying. Apparently, he's very good at airplanes and not very good at airline tickets. And now we are dealing here with some summaries of media reports instead of dealing with facts and evidence. Speaking of which, we're on air tickets. There is a portal to the council.si, which is obviously a collection of damage to airlines. Let's take a look at the offer: Venice-Sicily 13.66 euros, London and Brussels from Ljubljana 29 euros, and I have a couple of them, to New York for 180 euros, to Boston for 199 euros. I've got a lot left, but I'm not gonna do it now because I'm running out of time. And that's not a fictitious offer. These offers are accessible to all. But the question is, how much discount would I get if I paid it in cash, and some people like to do business with cash. And while we're at this point in Mr Janš's work, let me quote him or let him say what he has to say about the airline tickets. [[recording playback]] I don't know if it sounds good. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u73	Mr. Pavlishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u74	But he said, "Maybe the map was 200 euros for both of us." [[…]] As part of the KPK investigation, there was a question of how he went to Sweden for a visit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u75	Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak, you have a procedure. Mr. Beznik, you have a replica. Mr. Beznik used to have a replica. Here you go. Then Mrs. Ramshak. Here you go. Procedurally, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u76	For two days we listen to how to be correct and respectful and patient, but just your performance, Comrade Pavlišič, was extremely impatient, as did the ministers. And I've already warned the president that we should be respectful, proper. What you have done is quite the opposite, and what you read to us actually applies to you and shows a picture of you, as your predecessor has already said in this hall. President, please put such debates on the side that is favourable to you in future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. However, you may have heard from a material study that I warned Mr Pavlisič during the discussion. I warned him twice. I have no problem reminding anyone that the debate is offensive to anyone here in or outside the hall. We are moving on to the next debate Mr Breznik has, the time for discussion is up, so you cannot have a replica. [[...]] Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u78	I would like you to remind my colleague Pavlišič in particular, because today he is discussing extremely misleading and this has nothing to do with reality. Especially in matters you're talking about me. You can go to Google and joke on Franz Breznik Adria to see the things I've been doing for two years. For two years, Janez Janša’s government and I also saved the people of Ljubljana who ended up in Corsica. When their bodies and personal items were lying on Corsica, we took our money and took action, and Janša’s government cleaned up the shame we had on Corsica. It's the first thing about my aviation business. Another time. Don't fool around with action offers. At the moment, it is full of action because the dead part of the season and people travel with free tickets., your party president flew to a location between Frankfurt and Ljubljana, which is the most occupied location, for this map is paid by the National Assembly of 600 euros in class, which you know what he is and he flew into [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u79	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u80	So please don't deceive, because it's out of line. [[...]] You're not deceiving me. But we can face it in front of the cameras, and I'll show you how the Air Council works, so you'll understand. But then we can face it and I am prepared to face up to my knowledge and, above all, to the facts with which you deceive the Slovenian public and, above all, to the National Assembly. I'm not gonna let that happen. This is a professional part, not a political part, Mr Pavlišič. And with some cheap tickets look, I can fly to America sometimes for 40 euros. [[...]] I can fly. But the man flew on the Frankfurt-Ljubljana line, paid by the National Assembly 600 euros. Why didn't he make such a map for us, Members? Then we'd fly for 80 euros. That would save money! These are questions, aren't they? These are questions!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u81	Mr Breznik, given your procedural proposal and the warning to me on the correctness of the debate, I can say that I am not an expert on airline tickets to know whether Mr Pavlišič was actually discussing you. However, I would like to see the debate properly. Mr. Lucky Meh, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u82	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! It's not fair for someone to defuse or speak here if you want, and use a procedural proposal, and then go out and not listen to any explanation. That's right, but fair is not. And that's why I suggest we be respectful, do what we have to do, and if anyone doesn't like it, listen. I don't like much either, and someone else doesn't like it, but it's about listening and it's really about the kind of debate that it has to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I agree, I wish to have the rightness and respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Franz Jursha and Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with – I have very little time – that I do not intend to support the interpretation because I think it is completely unfounded. I think that the biggest eyewitnesses flying to the minister represent an example of the good resolution of the skeletons from the closets left by the previous governments. The arguments seem to me quite attractive to the hair, and I would label them as our young ones, as "something". As far as local government's concerned, I know, it's a lot of pain. Our minister does have a flaw, so he jumps first and then he says hop. But I absolutely agree with the need to implement the reform of local self-government, to rationalise it, to lay it on professional grounds and also to agree with key stakeholders. In fact, the Minister has not put to the debate any more fundamental material that we could argue as much as we do, so I think that there will be plenty of time for this and that the evidence that flies on it is quite unfounded. You also spoke of the threesome, invited her and so on — and what were the consequences? You're here to report to the minister that he has to step down for this. Finally, I would like to say something else about the public sector and the organisation of the public sector. One argument has not yet been made here. When we talk about the scope of the public sector, let me say that most of our public services are provided by public institutions. In other countries with which we like to compare ourselves, these services are also provided by NGOs. But do you know what's going on out there? There 60 to 70% of the money for this is provided by the State through its payments. This means that the new priorities are certainly mainly white jobs, as has been said at the European Conference, and these white jobs are the needs of modern society. Speaking of reducing the public sector, it has been stressed that the state administration has already significantly reduced its manoeuvre. However, if we are to think about the public sector itself, we need to think about the so-called pluralisation of the welfare system, which means that instead of the public sector or the public sector for new services, we will support the non-governmental sector, which we will also finance appropriately, depending on the burden it will bear. That's why I think we're talking a lot. It is also necessary to know little about the welfare systems in Europe. And if we are making comparisons, we are, in fact, comparable only to Scandinavian countries, which lead the bulk of the provision of these services through public institutions and not through non-governmental organisations. But the whole continental part of Europe, as I said, is doing so in partnership with the non-governmental sector, so that it pays it for these purposes. In short, I reiterate that the arguments are unfounded and that the arguments you cited as grounds for interpolation do not actually belong to this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u86	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! First of all, congratulations to the coalition that it has so well timed this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which deals with the interpretation, that this interpretation has in some ways been watered down and that the debate on the key directions for the future development of local self-government and also the Slovenian public administration has not developed in such a way as to develop. There was a lot of talk today about things that we didn't even see to the minister. Today, after 45 minutes, the Minister discussed things that were not even published in the interpolation and used this interpolation to represent his work, to which this interpolation does not apply. Do you know what special interpolation is? This is the first interpretation against the Interior Minister, in which the work of the police has not been problematic at all. But the minister initially talked long and wide about how the police are now doing differently, how things have changed under his leadership, and how the criminals have finally begun to be imprisoned. In many of the debates that you had yesterday and today, you have raised the issue of interpellation by coalition colleagues. Now I really wonder how many of us are in this house of Democrats. Interpellation, however, is one of the tools the opposition can use. And if you read precisely the 250th article of our Rules of Procedure, the interpretation does not mean that we can interpret the Minister because he has proposed a law that we do not agree with, but is about the work of the Minister. And the work of the minister is also what the minister says, what the minister plans and thus excites the general Slovenian public. With regard to local self-government and the topic of the abolition of municipalities. If anything, then I can say that in this house we all agree that local self-government is necessary. This is an agreement that has led to all debates. But there are important differences. Your coalition is proposing the abolition of the municipalities, and our coalition is proposing an urgent mandatory community administration. The financial effects of our proposal are certainly the same as your proposal, with the difference that in many ways you are making it worse or trying to make local self-government and local democracy worse. I think that in these hours the debate has repeatedly said what good things have been done by small congregations and how pointless and meaningless it would be to abolish those institutions of this country that are functioning well. It has been repeatedly said that the problem of corruption is not a problem of small municipalities, but it is a problem of large urban communities. Many times it has been said that these small Slovenian municipalities today are concerned that differences in Slovenia are being eliminated, that infrastructure is being developed and that Slovenia can build on tourism. I'm aware that many people don't like it, that many people don't see the importance of it, but the facts are very simple. Small congregations have proved to be effective, and that is a fact. And that would be worth keeping going. That's our point of this interpolation. On the question of how to rationalise municipal administrations and how to do this more effectively, we have offered solutions that you are not talking about. We talked about joint municipal administrations to achieve the same financial impact. It's about the public sector. Look, I'm going to start with a vital number. If you know that we have 600,000 pensioners in Slovenia today, if you know that we have 800,000 people in a working relationship – of these 800,000 there are as many as 160,000 public servants, if you know that the public sector has increased by 40,000 employees in the last 20 years, then it is clear to us all that such trends are not sustainable in the long term, that the employees in the economy will no longer be able to maintain these pensioners and all the employees in the public sector. As a result, it is inevitable that our public sector will need to be reduced and adapted to the capabilities offered by our public finances. What is the easiest way to do this, or how can we do it in the least painful way? How can the public sector be reduced without excessive pain? Only by letting the public sector fall on the basis of the natural outflow, retirement and automatic abandonment of the public sector by some individuals. In this way, the annual public administration can be reduced by three to five percent. Of course, you will now go straight for me and you will say that there are areas where there is an urgent need to replace things. I agree with you, but there are also areas that have been re-designated and can be further reduced where there is much to be done with internal redistribution. What do we read to the Minister? Otherwise, the minister skillfully camouflaged this because he said that he was reducing or reducing the number of public servants by 1%. And this was also signed by the public sector union, and he agreed to it, but if he didn't do it, this public administration could be downgraded with even greater dynamism. Not just one percent, not just one and a half percent, but three percent. That's what we read to the minister. To keep the pace of public sector decline. This is the main observation that can't be avoided and confirmed by all the numbers, no matter how we turn these numbers once here, the second time there. About the deleted ones. It was really difficult for me to bear all the impressions of the coalition Members, who kept telling us how we did not respect the rule of law, how we were not guilty and how we did not respect the decision or decision of the European Court of Human Rights. It's just a lie. We have never said that, and we have never opposed the correction of injustices. Never. And I ask that no debate develops in the direction of how this vicious opposition opposes the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. We do not object to this decision. But to be very precise, the European Court of Human Rights has never imposed an exact amount of compensation on the Minister of the Interior, but it is a matter of negotiating the Minister with the affected. What are we reading? First of all, we said it was right for the wrongs to be rectified. Second, these injustices must not be corrected by creating new injustices. And we've read two things about this marriage. Firstly, this amount of compensation proposed is inappropriate or incompatible with other compensations for similar matters in other laws relating to World War II. That's one thing. Therefore, I must say that when Ambassador Hočevarova tells us how we are greater and worse manipulators than in Afghanistan and North Korea, I can only return that she is a worse manipulator than in Afghanistan and North Korea, because she has planned and constantly manipulated the statement that the opposition to this judgment of the European Union Court of Human Rights. Now I'm sorry, I'm out of time. The last statement the lady kept stressing, and I have to mention it, and the minister will have to do a little more. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u87	Here you go, Mr. Lucky Meh, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u88	I protest against this way and, of course, also the content of the debate that Mr Tonin had. According to him, there is no corruption in small municipalities and there is corruption in large municipalities. I myself was the mayor of the great municipality, also with me sitting the former mayor of the great municipality and several mayors and mayors are in here. I cannot say for any of these that they are corrupt and that there is corruption in their municipalities until this has been proven. That is why it seems to me that we cannot talk so easily about these corruptions in this House, where we have about 20 or 30 former mayors and mayors, about 10 or 15 ministers, about 5, 10 state secretaries, directors, professors, short-lived people who all had or had the opportunity to do this corruption. We talk like that. Which one of these is it, then? Who? Of course, I think that small congregations have done their part and it is right that they have been, but the content of the congregations must be discussed further, and we all know that. And that's why I'm protesting this way of speaking. I'm sure there's corruption, but you don't prove it, Mr. Tonin. This is proved by those who are called to do so. KPK, courts and police or criminals. They're the ones who prove it. And we all give a weird tone that says we know something. Tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u89	I have not heard the procedural proposal, Mr Happy Meh. Because you could have made a procedural proposal. Considering yours, what I've been listening to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u90	I was talking about congregations yesterday, and that's why I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u91	Thank you so much for your explanation, you're right, so it was a replica. Mag. Matthew Tonin, the replicas on the replica one you can have, but you can speak as a proponent. I'm sorry, but you can't as a proposalr either, because Mr Horvat is a proponent, you represented the position. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u92	There is always a way to go, but I think, Madam Vice-President, that we should stop colleague Mecha when he spoke about the procedural proposal because he did not make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u93	It was a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u94	Yeah, yeah. He didn't make a procedural proposal, but he replicated it to me. And you should just stop him. Otherwise, Mr. Meh, I was talking about those things. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u95	He had a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u96	Yeah, yeah. Mr Meh, I was talking about the things the KPK and other competent institutions have found. In the two largest municipalities, namely the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor, many things have been found. For example, for Hodhos and the Church, which are very small to the congregation, I do not know such findings, and my thesis was that corruption is a bigger problem in larger municipalities than in smaller ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u97	I didn't hear the motion, mag. Tonin. That's all, Mr Happy Meh had a replica that went, if anyone followed, to the SD. We continue the debate. Mrs. Eva Irgle, do you? You can't replicate Mr. Tonin, there's no time. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Mr Tonin, I don't have any problem with you speaking only three words at the time of this interpolation within the interpretation of the eyewitnesses within the interpretation of Minister Virant, but I must remind you that it is you and New Slovenia who wrote this interpolation, and you have also included the obvious that it is most likely that the purchase of airline tickets is also suspected of corruption. That's what you wrote down. Therefore, I just wanted to warn you, given that you have not already explained this statement as a proposal and that it would not be bad to touch this obvious. That's all. I hope there's no offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u99	This procedural proposal was somehow procedural for the applicant. The word is given by Mr. Franz Jurša, behind him mag. Majda Potrate, then Mr Jerko Čehovin and then the Minister and the Applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I may discuss a little differently than has been discussed recently or yesterday and today with regard to the interpretation of the Minister of Interior and Public Administration. The Institute of Interpellation was used by colleagues and colleagues from Nova Slovenije and SDS, they had this right and there is nothing to dispute. But at the outset, I would like to say that I will not support Gregor Virant's personal intervention against the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration for a simple reason which is not bound to sit in the opposition or coalition, but because you recognize him, respected colleagues from the opposition, that he is a working person. I think it's nice and nice that you admitted it. And that's true. However, the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration should start to explain certain matters too quickly and also apply. This infatuation will have to be corrected by the Minister and it can be a top policy in the future. It is true, however, that in some ways he is a political opponent of the opposition, even that he feels little of the occasion and knows why. But I'm not going to start this topic because I said I'd be discussing it in a completely different context. Just because someone starts to explain something and gives their opinion doesn't mean they're going to do it. And Minister Virant explained the restructuring of local self-government. Maybe too fast. Then some within the coalition warned him of things that were not in his favor. Not just us, some others warned him about it. And that's what the minister respected. He didn't reorganise any local government. If he does, he'll do it. And at that time, all of us in this room and all others affected by local self - government, especially those of the congregations, will be able to express our views as to whether they agree or not. In Slovenia we have 112 municipalities on paper. We all know how these congregations have been formed in the past, I am not saying that I am an opponent of small congregations, no, I am defending them, but because of the political interest of Hota or negligently, they admitted that this was happening. [[..]] If we had one or another in some environment of a potential mayoral candidate, we saw this opportunity and opportunity and thus established municipalities. The law prescribed 5,000 inhabitants. This was not respected by either political option. The municipalities have been established. In most cases, a referendum has been held to decide, and we must also respect the will of voters, citizens. On the other hand, there are some such congregations where citizens or citizens have not expressed this desire, but we have also established congregations there. I have very well remembered the fact that together with the creation of such local self-government we have also received 4 000 600 employees in these local communities, that the number has increased by 2 times. It's some kind of signal that we need to think in the direction of rationalisation. I will briefly explain my view on the reorganisation of local self-government. I'll be very brief. I wouldn't have abolished the congregations. However, I would prescribe and reduce a certain number of saints, prescribe where the non-professional mayor might be, and from where else he could be professional, combine services, because there are many problems with the appropriate staff, which could produce good results and actually encourage small local communities that would like to unite. And that would be the first effect. If it were found that this was successful, then I might also suggest some new steps in this direction, but let the whole matter be gradual. I simply and simply compare this with pension legislation. When we arrived in the previous term with the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, things were long-term. Planned in the long run. And the proposal didn't go through. However, when we acted gradually, more moderately in this mandate, we also adopted legislation, as it is real at this point it is difficult to assess what will happen in 10 years or even more. All these steps would lead to the same goal – well-organized local self-government. There's something else about public servants. Minister Gregor Virant said there are three types of civil servants. Those who are good, he called them the garages. Those who work eight hours and leave. There's something I didn't quite understand here. Working hours are eight hours or 42 hours per week. If it's a new form for someone who's good to work 50, 60 hours a week, then I don't get it. But I understand his message, and I think it's a good estimate. Then it's those who go to work because they have to go somewhere and get paid for their existence, but we probably don't need them in the public sector. Many times in this hall, individuals mix certain concepts. The public sector is a broader concept, but when we talk about state administration, this is a little narrower term and it would be very embarrassing if there were an increase in the number of employees in the state administration. There are, however, different categories of public sectors, respected. Various public institutions. And in these public institutions they have been created, I will now say concretely, new homes for older citizens, and this also means additional employment. And I can't understand that where we open these activities, we wouldn't have public servants. I will briefly touch on the third question, which encouraged me to think, and these are the compensations that have been erased. Yeah, 50 euros in compensation. The comparison of the representative of the interpellation candidates is, in fact, in some ways contrary. However, Minister Virant probably has more information on the basis of which he proposed this height. This was not the first proposal, and at first there were lower proposals. It has probably been estimated that we will be able to close or close the matter with that height. And this is probably the interest of all of us, or the whole country of Slovenia. The blame has happened to these people, and we must be honest with them. I'm not gonna say that to everyone, maybe it didn't happen to anyone between them, but most of them did, and we have to fix this injustice. As you know, in our Group of Members, we were not impressed and we were not in favour of once again granting privileges to certain structures – in particular in this matter we know which one is – not because this group would disturb us, but mainly because we have once in Slovenia to end the privileges because we are in this moment and we will probably be in the near future a society that is not so rich that we can share the money across the board. At this point, I would like to conclude and say once again that I will not personally support the interpretations against the Minister of the Interior and the public administration of Gregor Virant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I have been able to present most of what needs to be said about interpretation in the opinion of the parliamentary group. However, I would like to respond to some comments from the first speaker, the New Slovenia Group. When I think about reforming local self-government and how to make proposals, a fundamental question arises to me, how do I attract a larger circle of both stakeholders and the professional public to think if it is not published first as a basis for a text? The problem arises at a time when those who reach out to the debate do not see that the proposal has changed in the meantime and that the adoption process is also more precise, more detailed and takes into account the potential of other stakeholders as well. In the proposal of Nova Slovenije, it was heard that groups of municipal administrations should be formed for several municipalities, where small municipalities would still have their mayors and municipal councils. From my experience — I was a member of the city council — I would say that the reception material is prepared by the municipal administration. How much can we look forward to having one municipal administration prepare material for the various congregations? And how many specific cases and experiences would you follow? I'm only asking this as a rhetorical question, as my response to what has been said. And the other thing is more serious. In the applicant’s opinion, a comparison of compensation was heard with those who were either veterans of war, victims of war violence, and so on. At least what I can say is that it is incorrect — I doubt that it is a lapsus — that the amount of compensation for one day cannot be compared to the amount of compensation for a month. This, however, is part of the field of manipulation and those who are serious, responsible politicians should not be allowed to do so. If I add to this a statement that even stress tests cannot be trusted, then I wonder who else is to be trusted in this country and whether we have not received a message that it is the responsibility of the policy that inspires the confidence of citizens and citizens in the institutions of power. This should be our first task, and this is also the basis for ethical political conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know if it's the computer's fault or if it's a coincidence that the Chairman of the Home Board for Public Administration, Home Affairs and Local Self-Government, to whom the Minister is responsible, gets the last word among the regulars. But that doesn't mean I won't say anything in this direction. First of all, I must say that it is very interesting to think about the interpretation of Minister Virant, compared to a few months ago or now. If I compared this to last year's time, I would think it would be scientific fiction that I would ever have to defend Minister Virant in the National Assembly and not because of the minister and his work, but because at that time the coalition seemed solid, strong and connected almost as children would say, like a bridge and a bone. Then, in January, there was a story that we all know about. We know that the coalition has fallen apart and no one will convince me that the subject of this interpretation is not an indication officially written in this interpretation, but an insult that Minister Virant and his client have gone out of this coalition for all the known reasons. I honestly believe that this story, which is primarily referred to as a quarantine in the SDS, is reflected in this interpretation against Minister Virant. This is a fundamental reason, and as soon as this government came into existence, it was clear that it was only a matter of time, month, two or three when Minister Virant would be intertwined. It was necessary to find some formal reasons for interpolating it, and somehow this was found. If we look at the content, these reasons for the talk here are quite attractive for the hair. One of the reasons is based on a loud or less loud view of the abolition of the congregations, although I have not yet heard that a congregation or a place would be abolished or deleted from that map, the greater was the talk about the eventual assembly of the congregations, the reduction in the number of congregations, the integration of congregations, and not as it was written in the interpellation, the abolition of the congregations. One thing, of course, can be reversed in one way or another. This law did not even come into government procedure, and an electronic message did not even come to the National Assembly. We're interpreting the minister for thinking. This means that in our country a person should not even think anymore, especially if he thinks loudly and publicly. That is why it seems to me – although I do not see one of the proponents – that the great up of Slovenian politics on the right-hand side adds something to this interpolation that is not even worth it and that has not yet happened. So once again, the thesis, which I have already said here repeatedly, is about what should have been or should have been shaped in the light of some thinking that, if it had been, it would have been, but not what it is. Interpellation is an instrument to interpolate a person for breaking the law or for acting not only in conflict with a programme but even against the Constitution. We also hear many powerful statements in the National Assembly, both on the one hand and on the other, about high treason and similar things. It's an interpolation thing, if we're talking about it, not if someone's thinking about something. Even less consistent or even less responsible – forgive me for using this term – it seems to me that the Minister is being intertwined because he is enforcing the legal judgments of domestic or foreign or European courts. This is actually absurdity over absurdity. This practically means that we want to prove in this country that we do not believe in the rule of law. This means that we must interpellate the postulated rule of law. And if the minister is in this position to carry out certain matters, we can only resent him by correcting the mistakes that someone else has made, one or the other government. This does not seem possible to me, but it is only an argument that we are having some bifa discussions here for 16 hours. Discussions usually held by people in some popular buffet behind one or the other end of the bar. I'm sorry, I really don't think this is a very competent debate about the reasons why the Minister should be inter-interpreted. Once again, I take this interpellation as some kind of family dispute. The minister used to be part of the family, and he took over, just like a growing child, and he said, "I'm not going to live in this family anymore, this family is sealing me up, this family is not giving me freedom, I can't exercise my powers, talents and abilities, so I'm going out, I'm going out on my own." And then the family is bad for him, especially if this family is patriarchal. We consider anyone who walks out of this family to be someone who betrayed his family. I'm sorry, but this is typical of the patriarchal buildings of some companies that we are frantic about wanting to go out. And unfortunately, we're going back. The more we hunt our tail, the more behind us, the more we don't shake it. And that's the story of Minister Virant. However, in order to not only praise the minister, I must say that I do not agree with him in many ways, especially because he sometimes has too long a language or has a faster tongue than he thinks. One of these things – let me be allowed, Mr Minister – is your statement yesterday, as you said you would be proud to have been carried away by the corruption coalition Janša-Jankovic. You may be proud or not, but I'm not proud because I don't know which side you're putting me on. And also many of the members of Positive Slovenia who will finally have to make a decision and press the key do not understand these words differently than to suspect that we are all some potential corruption MPs. If we are, then I would expect — especially since you are also the minister of the police — that you will trigger all the mechanisms to find out who is who corruption is supposed to touch. Once again, I have a lot of comments about the Minister's work, but not in the sense that he is not working or has no ideas, but sometimes it seems to me that he does jump before he says hop or vice versa, as one of the honourable Members mentioned earlier. You have a group in which everyone is interesting in their own way, and I must say that everyone is interesting in their own way also because no one in this group uses some low accounting methods, but tries to present their views to the general public. As a result, I do not think there is anything wrong with this parliamentary group if it is sometimes unpredictable and sometimes, as a coalition partner, it is as difficult as the minister himself. But that's a new quality for me. This is not something we should put into some molds and make some big stories out of it that are not really there. There are some other things that I do not agree with, and above all, I would like and expect what this party and its leader are trying to present to the public as some principle that this principle is always the same. When it comes to evaluating politicians from their coalition, from the opposition, as well as from their own party. I therefore expect a consistent principled attitude, even when we have on the backdrop the actions of one minister, another minister, one policy, a third policy and so on. In short, I would expect this principle to be used as a standard, not as a political instrument that is being adapted daily. It's about local government. I had 28 students of the 4th year FDV here today who specialize in local self-government and I had a very nice conversation with him, as you could see, but they also watched us from the balcony for a while and listened to our discussion. I can say it's interesting to listen to young people and see how they look at local self-government. And I must say that they are very positive about how the system of local self-government works, but at the same time they can draw very good attention to what does not work, what needs to be corrected and where there are risks and possible differences between what we do and what young people think. It's interesting that we have a thinking generation that sees that we're over-preserving what we have and what we think is good. There is still something to be upgraded. And here I agree with them. I also agree with the Minister that the local self-government strategy must be upgraded. Not only in these areas, which we have already adopted and at least in the formal reduction of the number of municipalities, but there are other matters, such as the dismissal of officials before the expiry of the mandate, the reflection on the limitation of mandates and the possible extension of mandates. These are things that practically lead us to have some things summarised in the strategy that the ministry will have to draw up. However, they cannot be thinking and different ideas subject to interpretation. These are living things. That's why we're here. Many in Parliament are evident if they are not given a word on the committees or elsewhere, to limit the debate and not to allow it to advise. That's not what this is about. It's about not repeating ourselves. The point is that when we speak, we say something like this that helps to improve the quality of our work. Of course, there are also things that we need to agree on together, which must also be coalitionly coordinated, whether it is a reform of public administration, the formation of administrative thefts or a further strategy of local self-government, where at least old Members should know that we had a public presentation of the opinions in March 2011, where three important positions and eight conclusions were adopted. This is the basis on which the ministry must then act and propose these things. Symptoms about the unions. I personally believe that the agreement on interest and other matters was necessary at least because we brought all public servants to the same level, because otherwise these differences would have been formally obtained only a certain segment of the staff and others would not. And this was where the unions had to agree on how this was going to happen. That's why I don't see any serious evidence here, except that we're talking about some interest that will or won't. If the financial situation is better, it'll pay off sooner. However, we are not talking about the interest that we had to pay on the basis of the Constitutional Court judgment in at least two or in one more important case. Therefore, once again, dear colleagues, the interpellationers, I personally believe that these observations you gave to the Minister are more a reflection of your anger because he left your kind and pushed you into opposition than a reflection of his work and his ministry. I'm sure that's why he didn't deserve an interpolation. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that in his reply, the Minister has satisfactorily explained the reasons for his actions and proved the legality of his actions – no illegality has been proven – but in particular I do not want to support the subject deleted, because I think from below that that we are returning this discussion to the National Assembly. As a result, we can also propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that it should not adopt the proposed decision after the debate we have had. I also propose this as a Member and Chairman of the Committee, which covers the field of action of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has procedural procedures. Mr Bevk was before you, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable assembly, interpellation is a parliamentary and constitutional institution for the supervision of the National Assembly of the Government and individual ministers, and it can thus affect the work of the executive branch of power. See what the proponents are up to. For the first time, the Minister of Public Affairs put only thesis on the reform of local self-government. Secondly, the Minister has reached an agreement with the unions in the social dialogue. Thirdly, the Minister carried out the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Therefore, the interpretation is empty, has no legal content and is flawed. Therefore, on the basis of Article 252, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the interviewers withdraw the interpretation before the end of the discussion on interpretation. We've been listening to this story for 13 hours. Three more hours and twenty minutes of work ahead of us, so please take this option of the Rules of Procedure and remove the interpolation because it is missing and empty. In addition, we have five laws to discuss today, thirteen hours to discuss these five laws, and if we complete all this time from now on, we will finish our work on Saturday at 7 a.m. Please, proposers, take advantage of this opportunity offered by the Rules of Procedure, because your move is completely mistaken, as I have justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u107	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. He was probably heard, but if he's heard, it's up to the proposer. Procedural in front of you, Mr Grimes, and Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President! I have seen in here before that there is a great deal of fear in the coalition of voting, but my procedural proposal relates to something else. Madam President, in these two days you have intervened several times if someone has strayed from the subject of interpolation or has gone into intra-party affairs. In order not to be exactly the same as you, this time I propose that you welcome Mr Čehovin, because it is so clear, implicitly, but very clearly acknowledged and said that Mr Jankovic is de facto the president of their party, although the de jure is no longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Of course you abused the procedural proposal. The following is Minister Pardonon, Mr Grimes, on a procedural basis. [[...]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u110	I only suggest that you correct Mr Bevik – according to the scenario you made in the coalition, because you proposed this form of meeting, you set the day when the holes were declared in the banks, so that you have announced this story, which has been taking place since yesterday in this National Assembly. But this one won't end at 7:00 in the morning. If you know how to count correctly, it is currently set to end up around eight o'clock in the morning, all night long and one hour longer than you think. And there's probably going to be some kind of extension. As a result, weigh this course of action. As far as your proposal is concerned, the interpolation will be withdrawn. For example, when it comes to the amount of interest or the information in the law is silent, the numbers are unforgivable, so I understand you – when the arguments are gone, you only have to ask for us to withdraw the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Let's stick to the rules of procedure. We've got a few minutes left of this session, so we'd better stick to the rules of procedure. Mr. Bevk, please, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u112	First of all, thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Grimes! Taking my proposal into account - I'm sorry that I didn't do it yesterday - we could buy time to discuss stress tests and the situation of Slovenian banking today or yesterday, and not at 10:00 p.m., but say 6:00 p.m. Thus, we should not have to sit in the National Assembly for Christmas or New Year’s Eve to discuss this matter. I therefore repeat and repeat my procedural proposal that, pursuant to Article 252(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the applicants withdraw the interpretation because they have this business opportunity and opportunity, because the interpretation is empty and missed. It would be much better to deal with stress tests in Slovenian banks today, the situation in the banking system and the economic and social situation in the country, not to argue about some inopportune findings to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u113	Thank you very much. By the way, I've already understood the motioners that they have no intention of withdrawing this interpolation. Is there still a need for a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u114	Madam President, I suggest you remind Mr Bevik that we wanted to discuss stress tests in the opposition, but the coalition has taken the view that the debate is impossible. We could only listen to information. Warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I warn everyone that you are not abusing the rules of procedure so that we can finally conclude this agenda item. Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally. Do you have anything other than your colleagues?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u116	Yeah, totally different. The first mentioned this yesterday, Mr Möderndorfer, and today Mr Bevk also said that the coalition intended an extraordinary meeting, which was legitimately convened, to refer to Christmas to sit here for Christmas. I believe in your nostalgia following the renewal of this strong totalitarian regime and practice from those times, but I warn the Slovenian public to protest at this very moment against the intentions of the coalition, which have been expressed for the second time, and these plots in the backstage – provoking the Slovenian public, expressing this nostalgia, which you have widely expressed in many places, in many debates, under the iconography of the former country. However, you should also stop introducing the practice from those times when teachers had to call on their children for Christmas and keep them until the evening in school. And now we want to reintroduce this. I'm protesting it. And I think, Madam President, it is necessary for the Slovenian public to protest this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u117	Thank you very much. This, however, was not a procedural proposal, more of a public call. I give the floor to one more of the candidates. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of the Interior! I'll surprise you. I fully agree with the idea of Comrade Bevek, in the broadest sense of his idea. And the broadest point, of course, is that the minister can step down. You could have deprived us all of our troubles by now, if anyone is really suffering, at the beginning of this agenda item. That would be the most elegant solution. I therefore support the call of my colleague Bevek, which I also understand as an invitation to the Minister. My colleague Bevk said that the minister was merely articulated an thesis on the reform of local self-government, and now he has received an interpretation. The Minister needs to think carefully about what he is saying, just as the Vice-President of the Government needs to think carefully about what he is saying. Remember – I have this bitter memory – that some secretary of state, when the cameras went out, was talking about Matilda. And he flew away like shit. And it's right that he flew away. We understand what I'm talking about and who I'm talking about. I still say, for the fourth time, I am deeply disappointed that the Minister has not yet answered our specific questions. But it's true that the minister still has a lot of time to answer. The question was very specific. Let's just say there's no waterworks and so on. Once again, in New Slovenia, we are Christian Democrats for the Reform of Local Self-Government. It's got to be a stop, actually. As in some company constantly, they are constantly looking for the best calculation for a product or service, so the reform of local self-government must also be a constant. But we would like the minister, who has had a rather lengthy lecture, to give us some guidance here, because this is now a golden opportunity. Is he thinking with local self-government only about deleting municipalities or getting together to say better, or is he also thinking about establishing landscapes and redefining the mission of administrative units in this context? We just don't know that. It was just information, and all the media reported the same. It is said that the majority of the population of this country understood in particular that Minister Virant was deleting municipalities. If I quote Dr. Stannet Vlaj again: "The time must come for changes to local self-government, but above all people, the people," so not the minister, but the people, "to know the need for larger municipalities." People need to know this need. "Now, inter-agency cooperation must be strengthened and the positions of the National Assembly must be realised from the end of the previous mandate on the development of a strategy for the development of local self-government in Slovenia." There can be no inter-agency cooperation, however, because in the budget adopted by this coalition for 2014 and 2015, funds for pooling some common functions of municipalities into, say, the common municipal administration and so on have been drastically reduced. So, we talk one thing and we work the other. This applies mainly to the Minister. Dr. Stane Vlaj continues: "On this basis," according to the development of a strategy for the development of local self-government in Slovenia, "would finally get the answers how to proceed, with the size of municipalities not being a priority." It's not a priority. And when we count averages, the arithmetic environment here has nothing to look for. Sometimes they fit one side on average, sometimes they match the other side. "The systematic financing of municipalities and municipalities should be changed to ensure autonomy in the acquisition and use of funds. The regionalisation of Slovenia should also be carried out as soon as possible with the introduction of the provinces." It is true that in the statement by Minister Virant concerning the abolition of the municipalities of Slovenia, including the opposition, and I know that there was also a large part of the coalition, so thank God that the minister pulled the manual brake – here he has to be acknowledged – and called professional cooperation. We still do not know whether the strategy for the development of the Slovenian self-government of the municipality, namely the representative associations ZOS and SOS, as well as the municipal municipalities will cooperate or not. In our view, this would be good, and we recommend this to the Minister if he continues to be a minister. But it's local self-government. We cannot dictate from a ministerial chair how people in the congregations should live and how to live. That's not working. There's something else that's interesting. If you do statistics through "political glasses" and see what happens to municipalities that are supposed to be abolished, then you can find that Minister Virant wants to stop the right. We know this – "Stop the right." Let me argue with the numbers. The Minister said that the agreement of all the presidents of the coalition parties that it could go into the realization of his project If the current ruling coalition was able to implement the forecasts of an administrative reduction in the number of municipalities, the situation would lose 43 mayors from three main opposition parties, namely the SDS, NSI and SLS, and only 11 mayors from coalition parties. [[..]] So the ratio is 43 to 11. We get an even more interesting picture when we look at the municipal councils. In 42 municipalities, three opposition parties have more than 50% of their seats. At 42. More than 50% of seats. In the four municipalities dedicated to the shooting, these three parties are called NSIs, SDS and SLS, even 100 % of all seats in the world. The SDS, NSI and SLS have only less than 20% representation in the municipal world in 20 smaller municipalities. In other words, in the congregations that the government would like to abolish, or if I am more accurate, that Minister Virant would like to abolish, he is mainly in the power of the opposition. And that's what the data clearly shows. So far, thank God Minister Virant has not abolished the municipalities of de jure, and in fact these municipalities are being abolished. How else can we understand changes in the financing of municipalities? The capital is shrinking, investment funds are declining, at the level of local self-government, where we all know that around 70% to 80% of all public investments are under way today. And now the brake has to be pressed here. There is no logic here and we would like the Minister to explain this a little bit more and yet admit it, at least implicitly, that this opposition probably knows something about municipalities or local self-government, because it is significant that this interpretation was signed by the entire opposition. This interpolation has connected the entire opposition with another Member. I think the Slovenian public understands this gesture and this connection of the opposition, and if we just wave our hand and say that it is nothing, then it is best that the opposition packs up and that until the end of the term there is only a coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next one has the floor, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u120	Thank you very much. As we approach the end of this item or interpolation, I would like to thank you for your discussions and for all the votes of support that have been quite something in these debates. In particular, I would like to thank my Group of Members, its Liberals, the Civil Gazette, for supporting me most eagerly. Thank you. Thank you also to all other coalition groups – Social Democrats, DeSUS, there was some support from Positive Slovenia, I am talking about explicit support. I try to get the best out of every thing. I have also tried to get the best out of these discussions, especially listening to you and considering how I could use these suggestions in the future. I have tried to answer all your questions, except in those points where the debate came under some kind of dignified, acceptable level in the National Assembly. That was not the case either, and I must say that Mr Matthew Tonin, as the first interpreter, was holding the level of debate, and I appreciate that. In some cases, it went slightly below this level, but mainly the debate was substantive and correct and that is good. You saw that I also took the opportunity to present the ministry's work in these nine months, and I think we have done a lot of work to clear up the many skeletons that fell on our table from the closets, to solve many of the problems that had to be solved, that we did not run away from these problems, that we did not close our eyes to them, that we did not sweep them under the carpet, where they really slowly began to rot and smell, but that we were going to solve them against them, and so I will also work on the following. I hope I've convinced at least most of them that I know exactly what I'm trying to do as a minister and that I'm walking along this path. To do what I predicted I would do and to explain to you once again what values I came from in my work. In politics, I work on liberal principles, on liberal values, which means that freedom, the rule of law, justice, dialogue, mutual respect and, of course, the smart or rational governance of the country. In all my decisions, I follow these principles, these values. You have not convinced me that the reform of local self-government is not necessary in the direction of uniting municipalities, but I still think that there are more arguments for than against, but of course I have listened carefully to what you have said that it is wise to move this project gradually, prudently and strategically. So, not overnight and not quickly, but by preparing a comprehensive strategy that we will bring to this National Assembly, and before that, we will discuss with the representative associations of the congregations that I have last met this Tuesday and will continue to have a dialogue with them. And we've agreed on some interesting things, let's say we go to the government with one package of simplifications and cost reductions for the operation of municipalities. For the parishioners rightly tell the State and the Government that, by their regulations, laws, especially by law, regulations and regulations, it has greatly complicated the functioning of the municipalities and has also caused a lot of unnecessary costs. There's a lot of nonsense going on. For example, a regulation provides that every five years a public undertaking must replace a water counter, even though these water counters have a 10 year warranty. And there's a million more of those things. And we agreed that the associations of municipalities would gather all these proposals, pack them up, our ministry would put them into government treatment, and the government would accept this as an obligation for all departments to clean it up, simplify matters and also lower some costs. These costs could be reduced in many areas. Some standards, standards are absolutely too high. And that will now be my short-term priority in the field of municipalities. In the short term, we will also go into these amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which I have announced. We will propose that mayors in the municipalities of less than 5,000 people perform the function of non-professionality to introduce the possibility of recalling the mayor on the basis of a certain number of electorate signatures, in order to reduce the number of municipal councillors, in short, of rationalisation, which I understand that you also support in the opposition. At the same time, we will be preparing this strategy, which will cover first the reform of community funding, which is essential. After one year, it will be seen what impact the property tax has had on municipal budgets and on this basis we will prepare a comprehensive reform of the financing system, which must also address current injustices. Today, some municipalities in the funding system are privileged and others are deprived. I've already told you a few cases. For example, those congregations that have a large number of pre - school and school - compulsory children are deprived. The strategy will also cover the territorial component of municipalities. Here at the beginning we will propose an association, which means for me to strengthen the congregations. The larger municipalities are stronger municipalities, they have greater development potential, they can do bigger, more important projects. Nothing is to be undone, no citizen of Slovenia will be left without his or her municipality. Each one will have his own congregation, only some will have larger and more developing congregations with greater development potential. That's essential. But as we say, we'll discuss it then. Now this discussion was a bit stocky. The provinces will be included in the strategy. The proposal will go in the direction of landscape formation. In my view, the number of provinces should come from the current statistical regions as a working draft and then we will discuss it. I think that the provinces need to be started by giving them first those powers that hang like ripe pears, and it is obvious that by their nature they are provincial – spatial planning, development planning and management of municipal waste, where it is obvious that this congregation cannot be alone. Some of these elementary powers, which fall within the province's level, could be given to the provinces without having to establish some special provincial bureaucracy. Because that's something we have to take care of. That the establishment of the provinces will not bring in another additional bureaucracy and a thousand or two thousand employees. We have to avoid that then. That's how it's gonna go down. Even in the case of deleted persons, of course, you have not convinced me that the problem could be solved in a different, better way. We have solved it in a way that provides for the correction of the wrong done, a correction of the legal error made, which ensures the correct implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and which has a great potential to survive the subsequent judgements of the European Court of Human Rights. Again, I have no guarantee because it is impossible to have, because no one can predict a court decision in advance, but I think there is a high probability that the matter will remain. In order not to be surprised, I will tell you that we are still awaiting a final judgment in the Kurić case and the five other claimants about the property damage that follows us, because unfortunately the previous suit did not conclude a friendly settlement which the court suggested. And then when we sent the offer, it was already out of hand and the lawyer on the other side refused to accept it. We have no choice but to implement, enforce and wait for the next decisions of the ECHR. Based on the feedback and the information I got in Strasbourg, my feeling is very good and I think we'll come through and they won't take up new complaints. In the public sector, we will continue to pursue the current policy in the government. We will continue to gradually reduce the number of employees by a soft method, i.e. by non-replacement. This is about a ratio of about 1 to 2, so of the three who leave, you replace two, allowing you to reduce about 1% at the annual level. For 2015, we may agree on a higher percentage, thus continuing this trend, which leads to a reduced number of public sector employees. That's essential. This trend is crucial. We can speak and have our mouths full of how the public sector will be reduced by 5.10% quickly, but it is much smarter if we go in a smart, strategic, systematic way where we set and go every year percentage, two percent, and then we can actually get to 10, maybe 15% of the smaller public sector, without throwing people on the road without creating social pressures and without having to pay the benefits. This will be our path. Of course, we will adjust our salaries to the economic situation. The public sector will share the fate of the economy. Since I believe that the economy will grow in 2015 or by the end of 2014 or, if all is well, in the second half of 2014, we will be able to talk to the public sector again after a long period of time about what kind of wage growth, not only the decline. Because in recent years, the public sector has only been given wage cuts. The pay system will be repaired in the direction of greater flexibility and greater simplicity. More options for flexible remuneration for managers, simpler procedures, easier performance evaluation, more management principles in the public sector as well. These are the three key points that were the subject of the readings in the interpretation. I have received some useful suggestions, and the changes of KURS to the opposition's colleagues with their arguments have not been achieved and remain here with different views. Of course, we will do a lot of other things in other areas. I'd point out only two key areas. The first key area is economic crime and corruption. As Minister of the Interior, I will continue to take my fullest interest in the police continuing their work and continuing to carry out their work in this area professionally, efficiently and neutrally. Today, that is how she works and I trust her fully – the NPU and the criminals in general and the police as a whole. It is my duty to ensure that they continue to work smoothly, in peace, independently, professionally and effectively, and then come results – complaints and evidence that will be used before the courts in order to disentangle the bench. The following years will be years of cleaning. The cleaning will continue. It has now begun, and in the coming years it will continue and it will end. As is happening in the grey economy, so will economic crime and corruption. I told you, already this year, the results are marked, even in banks last autumn, and this work will continue and will not stop. This is my key role in this area. Not to direct any individual investigation in any way, because I do not do it in my dreams and will not do it, but to allow the police political peace, protection from any political pressures and to provide the conditions for work. And, of course, I set priorities, which is the minister's job. The priorities are clear – economic crime and corruption are at the top of these priorities. And even more so at the top are those crimes committed in banks, those crimes committed in the expense of public funds and those crimes that have caused significant property damage. These are police priorities and they'll stay. You can trust me to ensure that the process of cleansing economic crime and corruption continues. Another area that is my high priority and which I will continue to pursue is the cleaning of bureaucratic barriers and the cleaning of bureaucracy. Here you will probably admit that in the past a lot of positive moves have been made, even at the time of the Janša government, a project "VEM – all in one place", and now we have one of the best systems for registering the company on a global scale, and a whole range of other simplifications, where the most significant was certainly the fact that the administrative authority must exchange data from official records so that customers do not have to go after certificates, copies and so on. It was a tough project. I believe that 100 per cent is not taken into account today, but we have come from a zero percentage of compliance with 90 per cent of this rule. And the savings of time are enormous. If we add up all one hundred thousand views from one institution, such as the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance in the central register of the population, each such view saves one party a foot from one end of the city to the other end of the city, from one tent to another. Just as an illustration. This is a way of doing things that I'm going to collect from here on out. And there's a lot of maneuvering space here. Slovenia is still too liberal, procedures are too complicated, we have a lot of manoeuvre to save time and money. I must say, I was very pleased with the first support given to me by the President of the Government. I feel great about this government team. Working with the president is great. The President of the Government is doing his job very well. It works well, honestly, effectively, and I am sure that this government has given many a positive surprise. Many predicted a short period of time, many predicted that it would fail, and others did not believe that it would succeed, but within a few months it proved to be a success and a success. Of course, there is one fundamental condition: to maintain political stability and to keep the coalition together. And so far, I can say that, thanks to the wisdom of the coalition groups of Members, despite the differences in the political agendas, we have always been able to agree on some reasonable compromises and I am sure that will continue to do so. I don't know if this is the end, because the rest of the time is probably going to be split up and you'll be discussing it, but just in case that's the end, thank you all for the debate, both to critics and, of course, to those who supported me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please, you have the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u122	At the end of the day, there's something we can say to the proposers. I am sure that this debate was necessary. If the political culture in Slovenia were different, perhaps everything would not have to be in the form of interpretation, some strategy could be discussed elsewhere. Also in the Slovenian People's Party, we tried to talk about a local self-government strategy at a committee meeting where we were loudly voted on in the proposal to continue the tradition that began in 2011 and where all parliamentary parties participated in the creation of those future solutions and conclusions that have already been presented today. Today, colleagues who logically from the coalition, of course, stepped in to defend the minister, told him of his good qualities, a work that I have never denied. I can tell him that he really does belong to those ministers who are more recognised by their work. On the other hand, you mentioned that it has the property to say something out loud earlier as a thought or to agree with someone, and I think that this would also be one of the key guides for a bunch of people to be involved in this year's debate on the topic of local self-government. Fast talk would not be such a problem if we did not learn in recent months in this National Assembly how to adopt laws quickly. Following an emergency procedure, we passed banking laws, public finances laws, real estate tax laws. One of the laws adopts 200 million new burdens for citizens and citizens; the other law recapitalises or guarantees for two banks. Then, at the Public Finance Act overnight, we waived the powers of the National Assembly to have a word, not to brief us last night about what the Government had decided after the whole of Slovenia had known. And this was the Public Finance Act, where we talked about four, almost five billion euros. On Wednesday afternoon, the government adopted the law at the correspondence session, on Friday it was forceful, saying, earlier than 48 hours, in the National Assembly, the law had already been under the roof. Unfortunately, such a course is also essential because we are living at a time when these shortcuts are certainly being used. The fact that we have taken these demands and expectations out of the air – I don't think you've looked very well at this material, in which only part of the newspaper articles from September, but rather from May, when they write for example Dr. Janez Šmidovnik, then in the Legal Practice of Dr. Cyril Ribičič, read this view; then the Mayors ask about Virant's presence, Virant proposes the deletion of municipalities, the populist proposal, the nonsense of municipalities more, let the citizens decide. What these intentions and where they came from were called legal experts from this area, who were also quoted here yesterday and today – Dr. Stane Vlaj, Dr. Šmidovnik, Dr. Igličar, Dr. Cyril Ribičič, Dr. Glad, Mrs. Vilma Milunović and other experts. The activities around these announcements were occupied by associations of municipalities, the State Council organised a debate, the non-governmental sector opened a debate and I think there was a good debate in the State Council on the subject, but the worst part is that, in addition to a whole range of other problems in Slovenia, this unnecessary conflict has also opened up, where in the country we suddenly surround ourselves and bet whether we are supporters of large municipalities, small municipalities, rural communities, cities, or whether we are successful small municipalities or large municipalities. It seems to me that this is an entirely unnecessary debate or dilemma, a conflict that such proposals create. I am firmly convinced, as I have already said, that we need both small and large congregations. So I share my opinion with experts, and I think that the number alone does not save us, but at the very least that it is possible and meaningful to change it at this time. We need to sit together and take enough time in a patient dialogue to really agree on where we want to go in this area and prepare a necessary strategy. The Minister mentioned that the Government intends to adopt this strategy. At the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, we also heard a diary. The strategy is expected to be adopted next spring. According to him, all those who need to do so will be involved, even though I have not yet heard when the opposition should be involved. Maybe in the process, in the end. This and what has been shown, and what the minister has also acknowledged, is that he is fast, even stubborn, and that we have not convinced him of anything, and he has added all the solutions he has. If you want such a strategy to be adopted in the spring, I think you really need to have the solutions now known to take them in the process. But I would expect, Minister, as you mentioned, that you are opening a dialogue to open a debate, to come to these solutions in such dialogue and to consider these matters. Is it true that 4,000 999 people are too small for a professional mayor, 5,000 and one already? I think that your conviction or actions in this area are reflected again in this matter, that you cannot master local self - government because 211 congregations are too many to control. I think we need to leave jurisdiction, on the principle of subsidiarity, where it is, and believe that 4 to 5,000 people are mature enough to choose saints to decide whether it is wise to have a professional or a volunteer mayor. You are again looking for and looking for a solution on some functional heads, which, as I said yesterday, is very popular for the public, but I think it is very far from those real problems and real good or bad solutions. There have been some other theses that are elements of this reform, as you said, that no one will convince you of anything, I am afraid that we will end up with this reform if we go this way, something that is difficult to understand or support this matter. I therefore hope that this debate in this part was at least useful for you to be touched by these discussions. In the discussion, some coalition MPs acknowledged this speed as an inappropriate way of admitting that it would finally be necessary to know that the coalition and the opposition should also discuss it. Believe me, when you have put quite a few impressions at the expense of our mayors and our experience, that we are ready for our experience, I believe that even some good, to be shared even when we are in opposition, and to contribute well to the development of local self-government. I hope that you will also take advantage of this willingness to cooperate, not as on any committee, when you are really tired of waiting for the opposition Members to be suspended until the end, so that they can vote on what is agreed in advance, and you can go home. Much more needs to be done in the area of local government reform. As far as the public sector and the state administration are concerned, I agree with most of the things that you, Minister, have mentioned as directions in which to go. But I'm thinking about one more. I think it is necessary to really consider whether this strength and working relationship for an indefinite period of time in the public sector, such as today, are the right direction and whether we will continue to do so. Personally, I think that we have a lot of problems in this country and that the public sector is precisely because of this security and security – but I do not have the will to force anyone to go anywhere – significantly less motivated than it would have been if in some way an open window and someone who really does not deserve trust could at least move somewhere, give a chance to the younger ones and in some other way settle this matter. I think that's one of the biggest problems. I can honestly tell you one example, I prefer to speak my own, that someone doesn't tell me that I'm faking them. When I was in charge of agriculture and the environment, there were some issues in the environment, I was talking to a key civil servant in this place if such a doctrine, which has been in use for 10 years, is more harmful than its benefits. We had a frank discussion, including the possibility of refreshing something in the workforce. And what happened? We talked on Tuesday afternoon, Friday at Channel A was full of articles and contributions, and the contributors were employed by those institutions. These employees – six senior officials came — told me on Monday morning as minister clearly that they did not want anything to change, that they knew and would protect what we were talking about. And I took it as a threat to me. Not that they reported it to the anti-corruption commission as a mobile phone, although they did come, we talked to each other and found out that many times they get applications and eventually find out that there is a mobile phone for someone in the public sector if someone tells them that they have to be at work for 8 hours. And we have a serious problem here. I think there is something that needs to be done in the area of labour relations. And when there's so much talk about corruption, I'm not going to think there's anything possible, but someone from this circle just happened to be a non-governmental sector involved with this circle and had over some society a million Euros of transport. I don't think there's anything wrong with this case, but I think these connections are interesting. And this stigma, which we place on officials over and over again – whether ministers, MPs, mayors or directors of the Directorate – does not always target the right targets. I think we have serious problems in the public sector and that we would have significantly more motivated people if this frequency were somehow possible. God forbid that this would happen because of some political issues, that someone would bring their teams back and so forth — these matters must be severely sanctioned. However, the rigid labour market in this area is one of the major obstacles to the fact that the situation in the country is also problematic in many areas because some feel protected as polar bears. And in this part of the reorganisation of the public sector, I am giving you this guidance. As far as the number of employees is concerned, and I understand in the end, including debirocratisation, it is mandatory, as already mentioned by Minister Židan, to reduce the number of processes and to make a general intervention in processes, because I think that if we set the goal of reducing a percentage or two per year, we will talk about different systems, we will end some of this ballast and we will discuss in what way it will be possible to do so in other subsystems, not just in the state administration. It's just that experience at the end. When we had these public administration objectives last year, we followed the targets in the interior and narrower part of the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment and even had 6.9% savings in one year, without anyone being forcibly replaced and without overtime. Some have retired and we have reached our goal. A major problem is in these sub-systems in which we were unable to intervene as ministers. There was 2% to 3% reduction. And these systems need to be cleaned with modified processes and tasks to clean up the ballast that has crept into our public sector. Minister, personally, as one of the ones we've proposed this interpolation, I'm going to support the interpolation. In view of the discussion of colleagues from coalition parties, I believe that you will survive it, and in this case, I wish you a successful job, and above all more proper and open cooperation with the opposition as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat is also on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! We still haven't got the answers to all the questions. Once again, I'm asking you what's going on with the waterworks, whether they're gonna do it or not. I hope that the Minister will not interrupt or prevent the continuation of the project, since it is drinking water, one of the fundamental human rights. You've talked a lot yesterday and today, Mr. Minister, about the police, which is right, but the police are listed in the text of the interpretation only once and this in relation to the investigation into air tickets. You didn't answer that question either. Once again and for the last time, I repeat this question. Have you ever received or purchased airline tickets with a special discount from Adrie Airways? I'm only asking for you. I don't care about your family because I know it's sacred to you, and it's my world to me. If you continue to be a minister, you have our support for the persecution of economic crime and corruption, but see, in March, the Commission issued a report entitled "Assessing the situation of corruption in RS", where from 51st page, it is very detailed on systemic corruption and also on political corruption in the system of banks of major state ownership. Marca. Today is December. We know that you have worked very well with the Commission to prevent corruption. I have repeatedly said that if any report by this Commission was the cause or cause of a government having to finish its work, then I think the same is true for the assessment document. Yesterday, some triumphantly explained the results of stress tests. Today, some supervisory councils and administrations should fly according to practice in some countries, and police or law enforcement authorities should probably be at work. I don't know what the government's plan is here, and I hope we'll know that in a short time, because if nothing happens, then believe me, there'll be a new hole starting tomorrow. As far as the persecution of those who have caused this bank hole is concerned, I must say that in the parliamentary investigative committee investigating these works, we are working very hard, but so far without success, it is not good for us in the future, because we simply do not get the relevant data. Everyone's referring to legislation. The same was done by the then President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Klemenčič. He said virtually everything, only the names and surnames of the persons who provided at least EUR 1.6 billion of unscrupulous credits could not be told. But he was talking about so-called grey eminences of gray banking. That doesn't tell us much. We have to give responsibility a name and a last name. I see here the task of Minister of the Interior. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the Minister's party colleague Dr. Senko Plitčanič when or in what time dynamics and laws he will bring to this national assembly, so that we can give these grey eminences of the Slovenian banking system a name and surname. The minister said something. I don't see his predictions coming true because we're practically at the end of the year. But I realized, even then in a private conversation, that he has problems, because he does not actually have full support here. And that's what worries me the most. The people on the road are telling us, take those who took away from us. Mr Minister, if you continue to be Minister, I suggest that you repeat this call or cry of citizens at every government meeting. You may have been able to do so in a reckless way because the mayors, municipal administrations or councillors are not connected to a strong union organization or have no strong unionists. If it were different, the forecast for the restructuring or reforms of local self-government would probably be slightly different. Indeed, your project "Everything in One Place" was successful in the 2004-2008 mandate, that is a fact. Of course it can be perfected. But today, for example, people from Pomur ask me, yes, all in one place, but does this mean that everything is in Murska Sobota or also in Maribor. I am talking, of course, about the announced establishment of administrative thefts. In this context, I am interested in – you have not yet given me an answer – how you will provide services to citizens in Murska Sobota, because there are also members of the Hungarian self-government national community living in Pomurje. So there are many questions that we have not received an answer to so far, so the New Slovenia Group insists normally that the Minister must go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u125	Thank you very much. More mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. If this is the strong support of the coalition, I quote the SD and PS Members on Mr Virant, "Mr Virant will first run into it, then think about where." Or, "Mr. Virant opens his mouth too quickly, then think about what he said." If this has been praised and expressed in support of the minister, then with this minister, if you allow it, something is very wrong. And you're probably all aware of that. That something very wrong with the minister also proves the date on which the meeting was convened. It was called, of course, by the coalition that chose the date. And she called on the exact day that she knew that the results of the stress tests of Slovenian banks would be announced, so that the coalition and the apparently controversial minister would be discussed as little as possible. What about the argument? Mr Virant spoke relatively much, but very little or almost nothing about what are actual substantive findings in interpolation. But to some specifics, he has completely avoided it. Let me mention just a few. He completely avoided what it was like to sign his union contract, where it was the amount of funds and where he promised them late interest, which was the most expensive way of lending that he could even afford. The State has in fact committed itself to these people in the absolute most expensive way that currently exists legally in the country. It would be better if we rented a loan on the international market. It would be better to rent or issue bonds, for example, three-year-olds, to have 5,5 % as currently required. In this case, we have 8.5%. It is said that we will pay substantially more than taxpayers, companies will be significantly more burdened than they would otherwise be. This suggests either ignorance or complete defeat in negotiations and unions can only laugh. When it comes to the signing of this treaty, the second question of the interpretation of that article was signed by Mr Minister, who is currently interpreted as having received, for example, non-members of the Union, a EUR 288 prize for 10 years of work, if they are members of the Swiz, and they receive EUR 346. This is the requirement of the Swize where exactly these numbers are listed. How this affects the work of the company, I would rather not comment, but it is doubtless controversial with several aspects, from the issue of equality before the law – because it is the regulation of another right arising from the law – as well as the issue of freedom of association. This leads to integration, forcing integration into precisely defined unions. And even below that is a signed minister, here the matter is perfectly clear and the proposal for interpretation is justified. It's a flight ticket issue. If you are on the same line and with the same company – Adrio Airways, for which the National Assembly pays 600 euros for an economic class, you drive 150 euros in business class, then whoever wants to believe that it's okay, who doesn't want to, let anyone think about it. Certainly, the interpolation reading is more than justifiable. The third thing that needs to be highlighted here is the question of the real damage caused by the individual statements or actions of the Minister, which you have described so beautifully yourself, because it is exactly what you said. Mr. Virant comes in first and opens his mouth, then think about what he said or where he's going. In particular, a bone has been thrown out on local self-government, on the abolition of municipalities, on the assembly of municipalities and, of course, on this subject there have also been meetings, and on various activities that are now unnecessary. But it all costs something. It cost taxpayers something, ladies and gentlemen. And here it is not a question of freedom of speech, as it was allowed yesterday to interpret it, Mr Minister, but it is a question of responsibility for the words spoken, expressed in a position that brings this responsibility. And you yourself are aware of this responsibility because you said it. That's exactly the sentence I've been quoting for the third time: "He opens his mouth too quickly, then he thinks about what he said." That's the quote you said over there. That's the problem. But this country costs something. This costs taxpayers something, and this also entails concrete responsibility for themselves, so in this part also interpolation is well founded, which of course you all know well. The problem that has been further opened is the question of ethics. When it came to Mr Stepišnik's question, it was extremely much of an ethics, but when it comes to Mr Omerzel, suddenly these ethics are running out. Now where are the same criteria that you all referred to in the coalition? Let's ask ourselves where these same criteria are now. The question of this whole interpolation is, of course, conditioned by the question of how much damage is done and what damage is done because of incompetence, ignorance or other reasons, for example, to sign something quickly, even if it is therefore higher interest, even if people will also pay from their own pocket, even if the companies will therefore be even more fiscally attached and will therefore run abroad or close the doors or cancel the announced investments and adjective new jobs. It's a question of this interpretation. That's what this interpolation is about. And I find it difficult to understand that in a coalition where you are obviously aware of this, because you have made this very clear in your words, but you are saying that you will support the Minister. Obviously, the only interest is power at all costs, but that power is to the detriment of everyone. You, too. We all live worse if we do it that way. If there is not enough responsibility to be able to find a better solution for taxpayers, it does not, or it cannot be done, or it does not, because something is quickly signed, it runs in front of the cameras. Look what we've done! And then it tries to show up in sometimes already tragic media spins, like yesterday, when it was officially announced that we have 4.77 billion euros in bank holes, read debts. Today’s calculation in Finance, which takes account of other banks – because only the major state banks were taken into account yesterday – includes, say, Gorenje banka, costs for Probanka etc. And it's worth 5.9 billion euros. And that was said, in the sense that this is something good, how good we are. It is only in this love of Slovenia that we can declare such a success. In any normal country, at such a catastrophic outcome of the tests, the government would probably accept responsibility and step down rather than declare it a success. The same applies to the Minister. When it comes to his responsibility, for those specific numbers, he should take responsibility for himself, resign himself, or [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u127	Thank you very much. All the reported debaters you wanted to discuss have already received the floor. But since we have some time left, I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it? I'll open the door for you to sign up for the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got 12 more applicants. Everyone has 5 minutes at their disposal. Among them is Mr. Secretary. The first reported is Marko Pavlišič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I don't have the final word today, but first. There's something else that needs to be said about the causes of this interpolation. I've talked about the contents myself before. First of all, I would like to point out that KPK issued its report at the beginning of the year and that the National Gazette reacted first and most decisively. In the Civil Gazette, we take the findings of state institutions, courts and, above all, laws and constitutions very seriously. And that's why we're not surprised by the anger of influential people, who also have an important influence on the media, and then we're witnessing attempts of media killings that are sometimes more, sometimes less successful. But Slovenian citizens can count on us to always be on the rule of law in the Civil Gazette. The moment the KPK issues a burdensome report on Mr Gregor Virant, for example in the case of airline tickets, I believe he will resign on his own. If he doesn't, we'll help him. Why is that necessary? Because this is the only way to allow for a fair investigation. Of course, newspaper articles are not enough. However, the conviction of the court must be sufficient, as well as a legal indictment. A little more, and we will witness that political parties, not ours, will be led behind bars. Is this the country for which we have tried, which we want and want to leave our children? Today's interpolation is, of course, a surprise. It's a surprise because we've been expecting it before. Interior ministers are usually among the first to receive interpretations. The interior minister who is being raised by influential people, who are afraid of Parliament, is even more so. Besides, if you dare to do something else good, it is a miracle that he survived eight months without interpretation. Objections to the principled action of non-majority politicians are, of course, the cause of the attacks it has suffered. And these attacks will undoubtedly continue. That's what we expect and we're ready for. Finally, it was clearly promised that, in order to achieve a great goal, the real defence of the figure and the work of the great leader, all the resources used, all the legal and all the political, regardless of the price paid by the State or the citizens. But under this minister, the police have political peace, which they have never had before, as stated by their chairman. And the last investigation, involving Minister Jakič, is chronic evidence that Minister Gregor Virant is not involved in the work of the police and that she is provided with political peace and protection against all pressures, so that they can also carry out a job that someone may not like most. Eleanor Roosevelt once said, "Great minds discussion ideas, average minds discussion events, small minds discussion people." So big thinkers debate ideas, average events and small ones about people, in their own words – they do. Let each one wonder where this debate is, in this high assembly, where a constructive debate should take place on the ideas that will lead us forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u129	Here you go, Mr Grimes, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u130	I would only suggest, Madam President, that you commend Mr Pavlisic very much for his excellent reading of the pre-prepared text, but that, with my discussion, where I have cited the specific numbers and specific injuries that have been done to the detriment of public funds, of course, has nothing to do with it. That's what happens if the text is written in advance by others. But you've read it well, and you deserve all the credit. Really.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u131	Mr Grimes, you have abused the Rules of Procedure and the Procedural Proposal, so I am warning you and I ask you to refrain from such procedural proposals in the future. Next? There's no replica because we're in time-sharing. Mr. Pavlišič, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u132	Madam President, I propose that you explain to Mr Grimes that my debate was not meant to answer his questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Nor was this a procedural proposal. Mr. Meh, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u134	Yesterday and today we talk about almost everything else, just the interpretation and what was written in it, not. When Mr Grimes spoke so vehemently, he also spoke about stress tests. What do stress tests have to do with this interpolation? Why were we talking about stress tests here today? Then there was a talk about who convened this meeting. We convened this meeting, the President of the National Assembly called it in the Rules of Procedure. Who gave the initiative, ladies and gentlemen? Who gave the initiative? Who, at this moment, has given the initiative to convene this meeting, which is "the most urgent" and which is why we are now talking about interpretation, which I think is unjustified and not justified. However, I find it very difficult to talk about what the government has done about the erased and disgrace that Slovenia is carrying because it has been regulating the deleted for so long. It was an honorable act, a proper act, and what was possible at that time. And that's why I think it's right. All those who oppose and say that this is not the right solution, and I ask why you have not done it so far. You had the time, you had the opportunity, you had the governments, you ran all the departments. Why didn't you do it? It's the right thing to do and to clean up. Of course, someone will say the flag hasn't fallen yet. She fell when we wronged those people. There was also a lot of talk about the public sector. We harm good workers in the public sector where good and bad workers are. But that there's something to be done, we're probably all aware. In fact, I wanted to talk about what Mr Tonin said about corruption in large municipalities. In some ways, he assumed that large congregations were corrupt, but small congregations were not corrupt. No congregation is corrupt in itself; corrupt people in these congregations — those who have been accused and will be punished. Therefore, it seems to me that it is on the average that some congregations are corrupt and others are not, in general very harmful. We always stand behind what was wrong. It was always the man who did this. I agree, however, that the vast majority of the congregations have done their part and that it would be a shame to abolish what has been done well. And no one said that. I think that there is a lot of things to be done in the congregations and not just that. We must have a very precise debate on the municipalities, their tasks, financing and, of course, on how they will do so. But I think it's a little bit of an abject statement that the principal took only small congregations. It's like the chief's instrument is just a small community. Glavarina is an instrument for all municipalities, everywhere the criterion is the same, but of course the weight may be larger or smaller, and this was an agreement between us. That is why I think it would be good to conclude this debate humanly and not accuse anyone if we have no argument to do so. With an extremely pure heart, I will vote against interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u136	It is fair and clear that we have proposed this interpretation and this meeting in the opposition, but the date of the meeting and the manner in which this meeting is held has been proposed by the coalition. This must be very clear to everyone. And that is probably the answer to why this interpolation fell right at the time of the publication of stress tests — because of a slight blurring of the subject, this debate and the focus on another. But it's no big deal. The coalition decided that way. In previous discussions, I have focused mainly on topics where I am convinced that millions of damages can be caused if Minister Virant's policy continues. One of these is definitely the abolition of the congregations. Why cancel something that works well? Another thing that can cause millions of damage is the conclusion of poor compromises. Here too, millions of dollars can be caused. Last but not least, listen very well, not needlessly, but unjust treatment of the deleted problem can also cause millions of damage. In my previous intervention, I have run out of time to warn Minister Virant that the clarification regarding the air tickets has been very modest and that it would be good to further clarify that Members would not be unhappy about these clarifications. During the break, my colleague Eva Irgle told me to ask you not to make it a rude invitation to take her on such a flight, to such a destination, at such a price. Then you'll answer her. In the interventions that you have had since our discussions, you have continued to insist that the congregations be abolished. So you do not abandon this concept after today's debate. And as one of the underlying problems you see mayors and you predict the unprofessionality of mayors in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants. I ask you once again very nicely to realize that the problem of Slovenian local government is not 212 mayors, but that the problems are completely different. And that you are the same financial effects as you want, so do we and therefore we offer you other tools and a different way of solving this problem – with mandatory joint municipal administrations. Leave that level of local democracy to the people. Lord Meh. Mr. Meh, I wasn't talking in general, I was talking about facts. The facts and findings of the anti-corruption commission show that more corruption has been detected in larger municipalities, unfortunately. There have been no such reports in these small congregations, which have a few thousand or less inhabitants. However, there have been many such reports in the largest two congregations. We both probably agree that there are more opportunities and opportunities for corruption where there is more money. Where's the more money? In the big congregations. Take a look at the budgets and you'll realize that small municipalities have budgets of less than a million euros, while they have 20, 30, 40 and more million euros. The answer to where corruption is more possible is clear. With regard to the public sector, I would suggest to Minister Virant that further wage cuts in the public sector are not a solution, but that such processes will make the public sector even more uninteresting and less perspective, since those who work and those who do not work will be increasingly equal. And the only long-term solution for the public sector is to reduce it nominally, that is in numbers, not in wage cuts. As far as the last topic, we've been reading to the minister about the deleted. Once again, we did not object to the court's decision, even to the Minister we proposed a different way of dealing with this problem. This is that all those who have been erased receive the same flat-rate compensation regardless of how quickly this status has been settled. What the Minister has proposed simply puts those who have delayed by regulating the status. I will vote in favour of the discharge of Minister Virant from the post of Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u138	Thank you. I don't know what protection brings to white bears, but I know it's not good in Slovenia to be a chalet bear and probably Mr. Bogovic knows very well how to treat big animals in Slovenia. Think of this as a metaphor for a problem I want to point out. This is because the narrow local interests of the various stakeholders and groups can collide with a broader interest of national interest. The treatment of large beasts is likely to be felt differently when it comes to what the European directives on rare animals impose on us, but they have a different view of this, for example, in Notranjska, where, in a particular case, they meet either with a wolf or with a bear. This may also be a metaphor for the third problem in interpolation – for deleted. It's about who can and can't live anywhere. And when Mr Tonin says that everyone should be acquitted of compensation, here, Mr Tonin, we agree. But this law, which you oppose, does not bring compensation to all those who have been erased, but only to those who have individualized their demands, who have already volunteered in the process to regulate their situation. That's the difference. What do you see as unfair regulation? If you are building on some injustice caused by this country and it seems to you that this state of injustice does not have to be settled, although this is claimed by the Constitution of this country and then compare the amount of compensation with the distorted, wrong and manipulated data for some injustice and problems from the past that have been settled in a previous country, it is indeed manipulation that has nothing to do with the ethical and responsible conduct of the official. And now to the unions. Trade unions are an independent force of political importance and have a very important role to play in protecting labour rights, and trade unions are therefore very important to the Social Democrats. Mr. Horvath, why should mayors and saints have their own union? The mayors and the saints are officials, the officials don't have a union, we don't need a union. In fact, we are often in the role of those who represent the employer, in particular as regards the public sector. And now for the end, a word or two about public servants. I agree with the Minister that he constantly points out that there is a difference between the public administration or the public administration and the public sector as a wider body responsible for public good. And I can't imagine how you're going to narrow down or reduce the number of employees in the public sector who perform important public services, for example, when talking about teaching work. What will you send a sports teacher to teach Slovenian? What will you do with branch schools — I am a prominent advocate of branch schools? Will you just forgive those teachers for teasing this service called primary school education? Ask my colleague Matjaz Han, the former mayor, how students of their branch school are quoted at various school competitions. They're one of the best, most successful students. I am more concerned that we have poor learning outcomes in northeastern Slovenia and that we have low reading understanding in school. These are real problems and we should talk about – how to raise the quality of public sector activities. These are real problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I must say that we will support this interpretation, because I am sure that Minister Virant has answered many questions in a flat-rate, no-quality and concrete manner. Mr Virant also spent three quarters of his time today and yesterday in his performances instead of his responses on what he was doing in 2004, 2008 and so on, which he was doing now as a minister and what he would do in the future. If that's the answer to interpolation, then the hell with me. And the minister is in the government to do his work honestly and responsibly, with what he has signed here. And he's paid for it. And talk about what he's done. He's paid for it, and it's right that he did something and he has to do something. Mr Virant presents himself as a moral messiah of Slovenian politics in the National Assembly, but I think that when we talk about buying cheap airline tickets, it is a matter of closer to the finger in marmalade. And the anti-corruption commission didn't say anything about it. I'd spend two days doing that. She'd rather back off. If that's not an interesting question! Unless that's an interesting question. Why didn't she report on the problem? Why? We can ask ourselves that question, and I am sure that we are all asking ourselves very, very argumentatively why this epilogue did not happen. Why am I talking about this? Let me read what one of the listeners or viewers wrote in the National Assembly. He wrote: "I listen to this, at times, to Dr. Virant's reckless defense of buying cheap airline tickets. Not only was he getting them at a time when he wasn't a Member, but he was actually an ordinary citizen, but he was a fear and trembling department for regulating privileged cards, i.e. VIP." He continued: "He had the habit of making his own way on Monday morning, he was doing it himself, and a colleague said that she did not run into such a lofty arrogance in her 35 years of work." So, the gentleman says, "Okay, that's the type of guy." And he goes on to say, "But he never wanted to sit in heaven, that is, among the Slovenian people, but he also insisted on the upgrade when he was in the upper class. When he didn't want to do this because he was against the rules, he got nervous and got a nervous breakdown, and in 15 minutes, the case was handled by the ER from the top. With a banal excuse, someone was transferred to the common people for this. This is a typical abuse of political influence. But the most striking thing was that he always demanded for his family, which in no way belonged to her, but where it was an immoral and repudiated act." And he says, "It would be very interesting to hear whether you're hoping for some honesty to deny it. Girls are not publicly able to confirm this, but there are two people who are just before retirement who care or are not afraid to work. And it's also a back check if he's waving his plane tickets." And now, dear colleagues, also from Dr. Virant's Group, I ask: Is Dr. Virant the moral messiah of Slovenian politics? Do people who watch this just write it for fun? I am sure that there are people in the background with a name and surname who know exactly what Mr Virant is doing - lofty, in a personal interest, and for everything else he cares little about. And such a minister deserves no Slovenian people, the Slovenian nation deserves nothing, and it is right to vote today for the interpellation. Such people don't need a Slovenian nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Braniselle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u142	Vice-President of the National Assembly. The clerk is clear. We're not talking about interpolation points, we're talking about anonymouss that aren't in the material that isn't on the charge. I want us to stick to the dots. Such discussions should be suspended. The minister can't get ready anyway. I don't know who'd get ready for an anonymous one. Second of all, tell me who wrote this with your name and surname and so on. It's unseemly for this National Assembly to be reading anonymouss. Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully, but the darkness was airline tickets. Flight cards are the topic of interpolation. We continue the debate. Mr. Janez Fishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Yesterday and today, much has been said about the topic of interpolation, so somehow I don't feel like I can assess whether someone's work is appropriate or not, I'm too close to it. But I was disturbed by one thing that I put almost 20 years of my work and effort into. It was heard that Mr. Secretary was traveling a lot. I would advise him to travel to the countryside as well. To the Slovenian countryside. When I lived in another country years ago, and sometimes I went across the border to Austria and there I saw how well-groomed the countryside, the environment, the roads, the houses, I thought, "Oh, that would be the case with us." That's why I ran for mayor in 94 and did a lot of things in the municipality with 7000 people in five terms. If people with my work weren't happy, they wouldn't have confirmed me over and over again. I did it because the Slovenian countryside is so decorated, because we have many congregations. Because in these congregations people are chosen by their names and names. Because these people were born there, they live there, they have families there, they have relatives there. And of course they don't care how or what they do. And they're doing the best they can. We like to say many times, I don't know how many hours a day. And that's true a lot of times. Everyone strives to improve as much as possible his living environment as possible in which he lives and in which all those who have finally chosen him live. Therefore, I think that in larger municipalities, which have growing problems, these major problems are always solved through these financial means. And in those smaller areas or in those smaller environments, there's as much money as some individuals in those environments are strong. Since we have made a large number of congregations and are financed by the population, the money is used somehow more wisely and rationally than in a large municipality. I am sure that the upgrading of a province would be a good thing, so that larger regional projects can be implemented together against the acquisition of European funds and so on, but we are already doing so today. We felt this need for ourselves. There was also talk of how those congregations were in charge. Look, all those of you who were mayors, you know very well that the municipality needs the consent of the Ministry of Finance before it commits itself. And when the situation in the congregation shows that you can no longer be indebted, you do not get that kind of consent. Then you can't get any credit. And where I see the greatest role. When we apply for European funds, we have an opportunity to get 85%. We just have to get 15 of them home alone. We should make every effort here. We need to help the congregations so that they can benefit. There is also a lot of work to be done on a voluntary basis in the countryside, honourable Members and Members. In the congregation from which I come, we have about 50 companies working voluntarily, building cultural homes, for which we will now have to pay taxes and so on, which arrange a number of other things. This is not possible in larger settlements and larger congregations. Greater congregations work as our National Assembly – coalition and opposition. In the countryside, however, they struggle more and compete to see what will be done in one village rather than in another. I think that's a good idea, and we should commend that. It's something good we've done. However, I support that yesterday's and today's debates bring useful things for further reflection on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Mr. Branko Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary! First, I would warn Mr Pojbič that the messiah is a man's sex, although it ends at a, so it is a moral messiah, not a moral messiah. Another time. You likely read letters or messages of viewers very selectively because we also read others. Then read also one that speaks of a different view of the matter. Third time. Earlier there was a speech about the 5 billion-dollar bailout by the government now asking a rhetorical question, which means I don't have to answer it. [[..]] Is this bank hole the government's fault? If I get back to interpolation now. I will, and I think I can also speak on behalf of the National Gazette, against the interpretation of Dr. Gregor Virant, because the points of interpretation, as was said several times yesterday and today, are also shown in the reply of the Minister, empty and without content. Then I wondered what the real reason was for today's interpolation. I'll tell you my vision. I think it's easy to get some fruitless revenge here. In January of this year, a large mirror was built. Some of you looked at him and didn't see anything in him. They looked at each other and saw someone else. The third looked at it and the picture was broken. Minister Virant, and not only him, but also some others who followed him saw a crystal painting. In my previous discussion, I was talking about the possibility that you might have to reassemble the government in sixteen years. And I didn't just say it like that. Sixteen years from now, the uncle of Twitter is likely to retire — as is the case with everyone — and then, of course, you will be released from the pliers and you may join Mr Virant’s client if, of course, you repent before that. I believe he'll be happy to see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'll come back to you on the interpretation of the matter against Minister Gregor Virant. First of all, I would like to tell this national assembly that I know Article 118 of the Constitution, which gives me the right to invest in interpretation, and of course I also know the rules of procedure. It's all good and good up here. My opinion is that this interpretation is undoubtedly legitimate, but it was not necessary and that there is no basis for what is evident to Mr Virant. I believe and repeat that Minister Virant is doing well. This has been identified and heard several times in the debate on this interpretation. In this short time, he settled many cases that fell out of the closet because the previous government and the previous ministry had not settled them. The Minister of Interior has a vision of his work and advocates the functioning of the rule of law, which is probably a hindrance, and personally I am very pleased that we have a minister who cares that our country will finally become a rule of law, because I think it is still not. The Minister does not interfere with law enforcement authorities, but gives them conditions for work, of course within the capacity. We have also heard that there is not enough money in one area or another, even in the judiciary, but we are at this time of crisis in which we have to reduce funds everywhere. However, I think the Minister, within the framework of his ability, provides the conditions for work. I would like to touch on some of the other opinions that have already been made so many times today about the abolition of the congregations. I think it's obvious to the Minister-interpelled that he wanted to abolish the congregations or that he'd already abolished them, that it's groundless. It was found that he had thought about it and that he was still considering the rationality of organising local self-government. But in my opinion, it's not a sin. He also saw the unfair regulation of the deleted. Look, in the previous government, in the government of Mr Janša, where DeSUS was, we also had the opportunity to arrange this, and we have not arranged it. I think that is why the new minister in the government, Alenka Bratušek, needs to be acknowledged that he has opened up this problem and that this is how he has solved it. I don't want to talk about it long and wide because I already said yesterday that I really respect his actions. To conclude, I do not believe that this interpretation is justified and that I will be happy to vote against this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Popotat. Next one's a mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u150	Thank you. The Minister's defence has one common point with the support of the entire coalition, and in particular his parties, to talk about everything possible, only about specific indications in the interpretation itself very little, and of some nothing at all. So in the 15 hours that this interpolation took place, there was no one who denied that, because of the 8.5 per cent interest interest that we would pay in the future for late public administration salaries due to the Minister's signature, we would pay more than if the state had issued bonds or otherwise owed interest, for example, 5.5 per cent nobody said it was different. That means the interpretation is justified, but you don't discuss it at all. No one specifically said that the commitment to reduce public administration employees by only one percent was not detrimental to the Slovenian economy and public finances. He wasn't there to say that. It is also well founded in this part, and you know very well what the outcome will be. This will result in a replacement, additional employment in the state administration for about 80% of those who would otherwise go on a natural path, which means more people in the budget and an even greater tax burden on entrepreneurs and all taxpayers. What this means for Slovenia in the long term, I explained in advance the case of Mr Akrapovich. He wanted to invest, he would open hundreds of new jobs in the White Krajina, which in bloody need of new jobs, and he stopped all investments due to the tightening of the tax screw of your coalition and your government, which goes beyond all reasonable limits. This, then, is the result of things that the minister also contributes to by his actions in the works that you, of course, miss. Many of you have talked about how the Law on Deleted Law was needed. Nobody objected to that. The law on deleted or, even better, the constitutional law should have been passed ten years ago, but it was not the will of the transition left to seek consensus. We offered, you refused. That's the whole story. That is why we have been brought to the position that Slovenia is in today. We do not report to the Minister that this law has been passed. We report that some of the costs have been silenced, while some have been shown to be unrealistically low. And no one's had a problem with that in 15 hours, not one of them. There was no one who would argue that not all costs would be in short supply. If you look at the other amount of court fees that are supposed to reflect some sort of court costs, then we can say that this is about 2,000 euros per trial. Even if only 10,000 of them will be complained of, the minister estimates, this will cost 20 million euros. EUR 20 million is not a small amount of money, ladies and gentlemen, and this cost is completely silent. It is just a small part of what has been silenced or underestimated in this case. Well, that's what the secretary's for, but none of you have ever disputed about it. Of course, because you have no argument and you know exactly that in this part interpolation is even more justified. Then there was not one who in any way denied double standards. You were talking about the fact that they have to be the same criteria for everyone. And in that, I absolutely agree with you. If anything, then it should be the same criteria for everyone. But the problem is that Mr Stepišnik has an immeasurable principle that completely disappears when it comes to Mr Omerzel. That's the problem. This is a problem for you, too, because this is your coalition. The debate was very interesting a little earlier. When someone even protested about buying cheap tickets at Adria Airways. You're saying this has nothing to do with interpolation. What you're saying has nothing to do with interpolation. That's why I made a little joke earlier — I hope it was so understandable — when a colleague kept reading things that didn't have anything to do with what was in the interpretation. Even then he said it wasn't an answer. But I'm a co-proposer of this. He should answer that, to the arguments of the interpretation, but not to write according to the Balkan principle of what Grandma wanted, it was Grandma's dream. This is then a talk over the topic of the agenda, because part of the interpretation, point 3, I quote, is "unjustified or unexplained discount received in the purchase of Adrie Airways airline tickets", which is a Slovenian air carrier, owned by the state, and we were even given a protest because one argued the matter. And that is why interpellation is justified, and I will vote in favour of resolution myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u151	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u152	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice afternoon greetings, everybody! After we have had our final talks, both the minister and all three of our candidates, it is difficult to return to the content we have discussed over the past 15 hours. But I think it's appropriate to make one summary and say some personal. What have we actually learned in these good 15 hours? Personally, I can view this as some kind of confrontation with mastery in empty and content-minded speeches about the content of interpolation. Mastery in simplification, manipulation, deception and conversion. Fortunately, we had a minister here who could also say something useful in the field of functioning of his ministry during this flood. It has turned out that the area of its ministry is well-known, and it has not only a good overview of all parts of the Ministry, but also a vision and a concept of how these areas should be managed and regulated in the future. It turned out that the minister was responding with content to the emptiness of this interpretation. But the interpolators keep muddying and deceiving. I am sorry that we have not had the opportunity to listen to the kind of debate that my colleague Bogovic had at some point in time when he was talking about ideas where it was seen that he was talking about personal experiences and ideas about how to change and reform local self-government. However, some other applicants have seen that they actually have double criteria and that they are manipulating. When one says that his parliamentary group for the reform of local self-government is ahead of him, a fellow member of the same parliamentary group says that small congregations have nevertheless made great progress and wonders why they should abolish what is working. This means that we are in favour of reforming local self-government, but not in the municipalities from which the mayors send us texts. The issue of deleted has been retaken by long-standing debates and again we have received a series of manipulations where some proponents insist that they are fighting for human rights and are persistently advocating the solutions they had ten years ago, but they do not want to face the problem now, as Minister Virant had to solve in accordance with the judgement of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. And when they intercede with the minister who tried to resolve this issue, they really appear to be against respect for human rights on the outside, including the international public. Whatever they say publicly and out loud about respect for human rights, they can't help them, because by interpreting the minister to deal with the issue of deleted persons, they show who they really are. And that's the last area. The conversion of what's heard. Many debaters spoke yesterday and today about the fact that this concrete interpretation is empty, flawed, meaningless and that it has no content and that the interpreters wanted to hear it, as if we were against interpretation as a means of democratic control over the functioning of the Government. That's not true. I hope we are all very well aware of the importance of the opposition's intervention instrument, but it is also true that in the past decades, 27 interpolations have been submitted by the independent state and only 7 of these interpolations have used the opposition, which were made up of left-wing parties, all the other interpolations have been used by those who were in the opposition from the right-wing parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Dr. Jelusichov. Mr. Richard Braniselj is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u154	Thank you very much. During today's debate, a few things have been said that I would like to respond to in a way that provides us with some correct information and facts. I'm gonna go over the interpolation points, because the mag. Grimes misses that maybe we're being a little too specific today. My colleague, Breznik, has noted — and I think he was not very correct — that before the great Senate of the European Court this country was not serious, was not persistent enough and that this was a sort of diversion — that this country, with some kind of passivity, allowed this country, on purpose, to come out of a decision that was not optimal for it. He even mentioned an inexperienced intern who was supposed to go there to defend herself and said that this had already been condemned to success. I don't think that's right. First, let me say that the great Senate is made up of 17 judges, and that's where it communicates in writing. The entire Department of Public Defence has been involved in this for years and years. And I think the thing was done correctly, and it doesn't look like you're taking a suitcase and there's an aunt going to the judge for a misdemeanor. These are serious things, long-term, the files are extensive, and I think the decision as it is is is worthy of respect. The second point is the answer to colleague Gorenak. By the way, let me say that I like his discussions because they are substantive and in-depth, but sometimes he forgets something to say. He compared the number of municipalities in our surrounding countries to the number of municipalities in Slovenia, where he took two criteria: the number of people and the area. In order to properly compare these municipalities, he has forgotten the tasks of the various countries, the number of employees, the number of funds they receive, and so on. Therefore, I do not think that such a comparison is sustainable because it is incomplete and cannot be correct. Comrade Bogovic, you said to the Minister of the Interior: "The Minister should be closed." You were talking about an agreement with the unions to eliminate wage imbalances. "The minister should be shut down." The statement indicates that the Minister should commit a crime and that he should be in prison at this point. Now, colleague Bogovich, the fact is that hard words have been said and now there are two options. Whether a criminal charge will already be filed today or tomorrow in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, as Members of Parliament, which is a national authority, are obliged to report the offence without delay when we know of it. Or – and I think that this would be correct – apologize to the Minister of the Interior if there is no such criminal complaint. As for the late interest and other things that have been discussed all the time. We have 147 thousand civil servants who, by a pilot judgment, have been recognised by the Supreme Court to be entitled to the elimination of wage imbalances, including interest. These cases were recognised by a pilot court decision and there is no debate here. Late interest is on the way. The most ideal thing, of course, would be to cover these things or pay for them and end the story. But obviously, the state doesn't have that kind of money right now. What about the Minister's achievement? The Minister's success in preventing all these 147 thousand people from falling into courts, labour courts and enforcement courts, courts from failing, in fact paralyzing them. And not just that. The State would undoubtedly have paid another million and a half costs if this agreement had not been reached. I think this agreement is good, but not as you say it is even a reason for interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u156	Thank you. Today’s mantra is directed by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, of course with the help of SDS and SLS. These options over the past 20 years have consisted of key coalitions and had three government presidents in four mandates, and the result is unfortunately known – you heard the results of the big bank hole yesterday. And now what do Christian democracy reveal to the minister? Retribution to the erased, which is, of course, totally contrary to some humanism and a sense of rule of law, which recognise some modern Christian democracies. There had already been a talk that this deletion had not been made, and those who advocated Christian values that year acted systematically, out of some of their interests, but had violated human rights and fundamental freedoms. So, colleagues from New Slovenia, those promises you made at the Congress, that you are Christian Democrats for building a country based on the freedom of individuals and the rule of law, are not kept here. Let me also mention the statement made by the former Defence Minister, who said that this left-wing government is in charge of paying compensation to those who have been erased after the financing of the privileged and so on. The question is whether it is a Christian value or an ideological statement. Pope Francis also said that Christianity is an ideological disease. Savings in local government. I do not agree with the Minister's stupid statement that the only criterion is the 5,000 inhabitants, but of course an appropriate strategy will have to be put in place in this area. So I am telling those today who are defending themselves in interpretation that all the arguments that have been cited do not hold up because they are primarily personal insults and personal disqualifications. After all, the minister was your man until recently, then trusted, and now we'd like to walk him. Here we can ask ourselves where Christian values are. This does not mean that I agree with all his personality moves, which is not the subject of this interpretation. There is still no clear loss of referendum signatures and it is unacceptable that you have swept the matter under the carpet. It is also unacceptable that there are exceptions in your ministry for certain individuals who meet the conditions for retirement, and there are probably no pre-established criteria for this, so this is an inequality. However, he mentioned earlier that if certain coalition members are corrupt, this should also be commented on, so that I do not agree with all your inconsistent, sometimes unhygienic statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Let me paraphrase Kajuh — for which I was interpelled, I would like to be reinterpreted. Yesterday's and today's debate convinced me that the decisions I made were genuine. That we were doing the right thing and that there was absolutely no argument to convince me otherwise. What I am thinking is that there is a true assembly of congregations, but there will be a subject of discussion in this House, and we will be able to discuss ourselves thoroughly at that time. Since I am an optimist by nature, I will also look at this debate as much as possible from a positive angle. There were some purely correct discussions, some suggestions that I could take into account below, there were also some shouting, then I went out because of earaches, there were some low low strokes, some anonymities that you probably write yourself. The first one I got was the day I found out I was going to set up a client. So they're always connected to some time in history. I hope that this way of functioning in politics will slow the Slovenian electoral body and such parties will no longer come to Parliament. I have to say, I can't wait to get back to normal. Although this interpolation was no big deal, it caused a little headache, but I am really looking forward to working and this work is very large, the plans are large, and if you think I'm going to be a little less hyperactive now than some people like to say, or less active, you can expect me not to. Many proposals will therefore come to the National Assembly. The first refers to the public information. We have already carried out the first examination of the law on access to information of a public nature. In the second reading, we will propose solutions to the public for credit maps of bad claims. Those bad claims that will be transferred from state banks to DUTB to a bad bank. Basic data from those credit maps will become public. A set of data will therefore be defined which will become public. And I'm asking you in advance for your support for this project. Because I think it is important that Slovenian taxpayers see who are on both sides, on the banking side and on the committee's side, the credits that have now created such a bank hole. Then we have a lot of work to do in the area of economic crime and corruption. Like I said, work is moving fast here. My key task is to enable the police to continue to work professionally and effectively and to have no political influence. Slovenian police are doing well and there are no sacred cows for her. They know that it is the direction of the Minister of the Interior, that there are no holy cows in Slovenia and that economic crime and corruption will be pursued, regardless of who it is. Then we have a lot of work to do to clean red tape, as you yourself have found, Mr Bogovich had a really good debate here. We still have a lot of bureaucratic obstacles, a lot of procedures need to be cleaned up, time cuts, costs for businesses and for citizens. Much work has already been done in this area, and much remains to be done. Here we have a huge room of manoeuvre to improve the competitiveness of the economy. It's a huge maneuverable space. We have the most maneuverable space here, and it costs nothing. If you simplify procedures, it doesn't cost you anything, you don't have to invest any money in it. On the contrary – you realize certain savings. I think I can finish at this point. Once again, I would like to thank all those who have expressed my support, thank you for all the suggestions, and thank you for those criticisms that have been considered well-intentioned and, in the end, I should like to reiterate that in all my decisions, I am guided by those political values which I represent in this political space and which are represented by our National List, namely freedom, justice, the rule of law, tolerance, dialogue and smart and rational governance of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u159	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on interpolation. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will take a half hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on autor and related rights after a reduced procedure. The draft law has been tabled by the Government and I invite the Secretary of State, Mrs Andrejo Kert, for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u160	Thank you very much. A respected choir! The main objective of the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is to harmonise national legislation with the European legal order, that is, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the duration of protection of copyright and certain related rights. Key supplements in the amendment regulate the extension of the duration of the protection of implementing rights for performance on phonograms from 50 to 70 years. In this regard, the right to additional annual compensation and its compulsory collective management and other minor technical supplements. The Directive should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 1 November 2013. In this light, we have prepared and coordinated the comprehensive amendment of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which included these implementation requirements during the summer. As you know, in order to submit a similar proposal for a law by Members who have been rejected, we have committed ourselves to submitting the draft amendment before you as soon as possible to the National Assembly. At the same time, we have committed ourselves to preparing a proposal for a comprehensive revision of the Copyright and Related Rights Act in the first half of 2014, which will also focus on another current issue of copyright, which we are already very fast implementing. I would like to point out that the proposed amendments to the law are necessary and improve the position of authors or performers, so we propose that the law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, to submit the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Committee on the Economy is at its 40th emergency session, 5. 12. In 2013, the Government submitted the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of ZASP-G to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the DZ shall be held at the 71st ordinary meeting, on 8. 11. In 2013, it decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Office of Intellectual Property and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee discussed the process of adopting the bill and the delay in the transposition of the EU Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered amendments to the draft law of the SPs, SDs, DLs and DeSUS of 1st, 3rd and 7th. 12. 2013 and adopted them. The proposed amendments follow most of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes amendments, has been prepared on the basis of the first delivery of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u163	Mrs Pavlič, you can just stay for the speaker, because on behalf of Positive Slovenia you will also present the position of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u164	Thank you. Your Honor! The proposed novel ZASP-G transposes Directive 2011/77/EU into our legal order following a reduced procedure, as we are already late for transposition. The protection of intellectual property and copyright is becoming increasingly important. The recognition of these rights is not only legal, but mainly civilisational, since the legal regime of copyright has helped and allowed a wide range of professions. Data from the study The economic contribution of copyright-based industries shows that copyright-based industries are very important for the Slovenian economy, as in Slovenia €4.2 billion has contributed to the volume of production, i.e. 5.8% of the volume of production, and €1.7 billion to the added value, that is 5.1% of national GDP or 54,000 jobs, if we say so in jobs. Copyright is a common term for a number of entitlements that guarantee the authors the realization of property, that is material and personal interests in terms of the exploitation of copyright. The essence of copyright is that it represents a monopoly of the author over the exploitation of his work. This protects the author’s moral rights with regard to his spiritual and personal ties to work, while material copyright protects his property interests by allowing the author exclusively or prohibiting the exploitation of his work. The main solutions to the ZASP novel are as follows. It was determined that if, in the creation of the musical work, the text and text were written in order to be used together, the protection of the music would cease 70 years after the death of the last surviving author of music or text, regardless of whether they were designated as co-authors. The duration of protection of implementing rights for performance on phonograms shall be extended from the existing 50 to 70 years. For operators, the possibility of cancelling the transfer contract with the phonogram manufacturer shall be specified if the latter has not made sufficient phonograms available to the public or if the phonogram has not been made available to the public. Operators shall also be entitled to an additional refund paid by the phonogram manufacturer and the right to such compensation shall be exercised collectively. These provisions do not currently contain the applicable SASP and it is therefore necessary to comply with Directive 2011/77/EU. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pavlich. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A nice welcome to the Ministry! Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The Government, as the bill's proponent in explanation, states that the aim of the law is to comply with the European legal order, in particular by transposing the provisions of Directive 2011/77, where it is stipulated that, if they have been written in the musical work with the text and for the purpose of applying it together, the protection of the music works with the text shall cease 70 years after the death of the last surviving author of the music or the author of the text, irrespective of whether they are designated as co-authors. This is an amendment to Article 60 of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. In the parliamentary group, we express our dissatisfaction that the Government is delaying the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, even though this directive has already been adopted on 27 September 2011. Nevertheless, we will support this amendment of the law. At the same time, we express our expectation that the Ministry will draw up a new law on copyright and related rights as soon as possible, which will regulate this area in its entirety and in the interest of all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u168	The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed amendment. I will not touch on the content details of the novel, because it is mainly just a matter of alignment with the European acquis or of transposition of the Directives. In doing so, it does not seem essential to us where the reasons for the delay are concerned, but it seems essential that this delay or the needed time in which we should do so should be achieved as soon as possible. We are aware that copyright is a human right defined in article 60 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: "The protection of copyright and other rights arising from artistic, scientific, research and invention activities is guaranteed." It is therefore unacceptable for us to give consent to any law that does not contain proposals that the creators would agree with – either the Slovenian music repertoire or any other intellectual property creator. That is why we also opposed the broader amendment of the law because it was not in line with the creators and not with certain collective organisations. We are aware that the consensus between these two groups – on the one hand collective organisations and on the other hand authors – is extremely difficult to reach, but not only musicians, for example, within the Slovenian Union of Music Creators or the Slovenian Music Forum, are those who require an update on the regulation of copyright. Here are representatives of the Association of Slovenian Writers. The Slovenian Writers' Society has addressed all Members and Members with a special letter and expects a larger novel, announced by the Ministry for the first half of next year, to follow their proposals. Here we note in particular the necessity of creative cooperation on the one hand of the Ministry of Economy and on the other hand of the Ministry of Culture, which should, by its origin, protect the interests of creators, musicians, writers and all other creative people, where the term "creative industry" is usually used. The share that these creators contribute to GDP is certainly so valuable that it is important to take into account the interests of those who, as has already been said, must also be protected under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Group of the Social Democrats will endeavour to ensure that these interests are taken into account and harmonised and we express support for this amendment of the law and are pleased that the applicant has followed the recommendation and has actually proposed only the most urgent changes and has not brought into law other hidden purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u169	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Polonca Komar shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear fellow Members, Members, distinguished Government! Copyright and related rights belong to the so-called group of creative rights. Because of their importance, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia itself provides them with protection. However, constitutional protection is being made concrete or implemented through the adopted Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We have changed this law many times in the past or at least tried to change it. This change is not dictated by perceived irregularities, irregularities or inconsistencies when it comes to collective management of copyrights or the functioning of collective organisations, but by Directive 2011/77 of the European Parliament and of the Council, adopted on 27 September 2011. The implementation of this Directive changes the following things in the field of copyright regulation. The duration of protection for performance on phonograms shall be extended from 50 to 70 years. By inserting a new 122.a., the possibility for operators to cancel the transfer of rights to the phonogram manufacturer is specified, unless it has offered sufficient copies of phonograms for sale or has not made such a phonogram available to the public. The new 122.b and 122.c provide operators with the right to an additional refund paid by the phonogram manufacturer. Following comments received from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the individual provisions of the draft law have been duly corrected so that the content is nomotechnically appropriate. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Polonca Komar. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We have just three weeks before there is a new proposal for amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights put into the legislative process by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Unlike the previous novel, this novel comes from coalition species, but, in truth, it is lovingly, quite dented and in battles it cannot even bring about another than the implementation of the European directive, which our country should transpose into its legal order by 1 November 2013 at the latest. It is probably right now that it is clear from this city that this amendment of the law, which was initially much broader, has been prepared and corrected by three governments for more than two years, including three economic ministers and a number of officials. And that three versions of this law have been held three times in public debate over the past two years and that their proposals and initiatives have been given by as many professional associations as the rest of the public concerned. In the end, it doesn't even matter what happened in the meantime, the fact is that, despite the long and broad public debate today, we have only seven more articles of the novel on the table, which in no way solve the problems of copyright and related rights, but only mean the transposition of one European directive. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. In this National Assembly one month ago, we heard assurances from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, who said at a meeting of the Home Committee that they were preparing a new law at the Ministry, which we can expect in the National Assembly no later than the first half of next year. She probably didn't have this law in mind, and since the resignation of the Ministry's leadership took place in the meantime, I'm afraid there's less chance that we can rely on these promises. However, I would like to strongly recommend to the Government that, however, the State Secretary's promise regarding deadlines is maintained and we will repeat what we have said three weeks ago – to stick to the basic guidance in this regard, to facilitate and simplify the operation of authors from all fields of activity, from music to literature, theatre, dance and design. In short, authors from a wide range of areas that are not only touched by this law but also have an important impact on the conditions of their work and on the development of concrete activities. It is particularly important to remember that this is a key law protecting Slovenian copyright work, especially the material protection of Slovenian music production, so that Slovenian authors can guarantee not only copyright, but also a decent share of the revenues from these rights. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and in the first half of next year we expect, as has already been said, a novel that will bring substantive and professional solutions. And if they do, then they will also receive the support of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights will be further supported in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Such as is before us this time is only a reflection of the alignment of certain decisions with the European Directive. The solutions proposed thus constitute a simplification of the extension of the duration of protection of copyright, musical rights for performance on phonograms and the imposition of a withdrawal of the contract for transfer of the rights of operators to the recording by the producer of phonograms in the event of insufficient sales of the quantity of phonogram specimens and the determination of the right to additional compensation to the operator by collective organisation. So far, there have been several attempts to regulate this content. They're like that, and they're different. Finally, we considered the proposal of New Slovenia with the first signed Matthew Tonin, who was rejected because of unconstant preparation, even in the opinion of the Government and the working body. Finally, this transposition of the European Directive nevertheless reflects the upgrade of the system. It is therefore a matter of better substantive consistency with the transparent and effective functioning of the copyright system. Given that it is only in the field of copyright and related rights to harmonise Slovenia with a specific European legal order, we will support the government proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Hršak. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u176	Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights concerns, in particular, the transposition of the Directive of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order. Although the provisions of the novel extend a little further to the rights of authors and holders of related rights, we remain Christian Democrats still critical of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We would like to draw attention in particular to two areas which in practice show themselves to be particularly problematic and concern both authors and users of their works. The first problem is the fragmented or rather unrelated operation of collective organisations, which, in the users of works of copyright, separate the accounts for their services. This leads to a lot of confusion and bad will for the users of the works because they do not know who and what services they are actually paying. The second problem is the relatively high and imprudent use of financial resources used by collective organisations for their operations. In this regard, a number of conflicts and dilemmas have been publicly exposed in the past, but so far there has not been much change. Problems remain, as well as the privileges and influence of some authors within collective organisations. With the desire to resolve these problems, we in the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats proposed this autumn amendments to the law, including three proposals: the introduction of a single account, the limitation of the use of financial resources for the operation of collective organisations and the introduction of a discount in the payment of compensation for the use of works in the event of humanitarian and charitable events. Unfortunately, the law in Parliament has not received sufficient support to deal with it and everything remains the same. Nevertheless, the panellists acknowledged that the problems actually exist and that they should be addressed. However, the full consensus of all stakeholders is almost impossible to achieve due to very different and conflicting interests. The government and the interested professional public were therefore aware of our proposals for improvements and more transparent business, but the government did not make an effort to amend and amend the law accordingly. For this reason, Christian Democrats note that the Government and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property have again missed the opportunity to introduce more transparency and justice through further amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in Slovenia. MEPs and Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will not oppose the announced changes to the law, but the competent institutions are once again urged to focus more efforts than ever on the problems that have been raised and to propose appropriate solutions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ludmila Novak. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will be made in accordance with the timetable 30 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to the next three. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on additions to the building laws of the buildings by emergency procedure. The bill was tabled by the Government. And for further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the Government's representative, the State Secretary of Mags. Bojan Babic. Mag. BOJAN BABIČ: Thank you for your word. Dear Members! At its 25th regular session, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision to accede to the preparation and procedure of the adoption of the law, which will regulate the conditions for the legalisation of facilities. The adoption of a law that will lay down the conditions for legalisation, but could be the owners of facilities which will be subject to legalisation and for which inspection decisions have already been issued, in an unequal situation compared with the owners of facilities for which inspection decisions have not yet been issued. In cases of decisions issued, the building inspection shall remove or prohibit the use of the facilities and shall not have the legal basis for the postponement of enforcement in specific cases. It is therefore necessary to adopt the proposed law as soon as possible, allowing for the postponement of inspection decisions in specific cases, while fulfilling the statutory criteria. The proposed addition of the Construction Act systemically lays down the conditions for the postponement of execution by a decision of the proposed construction inspection measures, thus allowing for illegal construction, non-compliant construction and facilities used without a prescribed use permit. These are examples in which an inspection measure is taken to remove the facility and to prohibit its use. However, the possibility of postponement of execution is not possible in hazardous constructions, as such objects are subject to the definition of the Construction Act for buildings that endanger property, health, human life, transport, neighbouring buildings or their surroundings. While exceptional cases of postponement of enforcement are governed by the General Administrative Procedure Act - the ZUP in its 293rd Article, since the ZUP is a general law, it does not regulate specific cases of exceptional delay of enforcement, which can only be regulated by specific laws. At the request of the debtor, the ZUP will only allow for the postponement of enforcement if a remedy has been lodged against the decision and the debtor could suffer irreparable damage as a result of enforcement, and the concept of irreparable damage in administrative and judicial practice is interpreted very restrictively — for example, in the case of illegal construction, the removal of facilities and the prohibition of their use are not considered irreparable damage. The proposed amendment to the Construction Act regulates this issue in the area of construction of buildings in particular and thus specifies the provisions of the ZUP. The draft law thus provides that the postponement of the execution of the construction inspection shall be permitted, at the request of the debtor, not more than once, if the conditions laid down by law are met. The criteria for deferral of execution shall take into account the criteria relating to: the social situation of the debtor if it is a residential building in which, at least from the beginning of the inspection procedure, the actual and continuous residence of the inspection debtor or other person is not owned and owned by another suitable apartment according to the criteria laid down in Article 10 of the Housing Act; where the economic function of the facility is at least at the beginning of the inspection procedure, an economic activity is carried out continuously and due to the execution of the inspection measure, the undertaking would be threatened by a severe economic damage or by the execution of the measure for the immediate reason of the dismissal of the workers; in the event that there is a fact that the undertaking has proposed appropriate changes to the spatial act that will allow the acquisition of the building permit, the municipality has already included its initiative in the procedure for the change of the spatial act and it has been identified in writing that it has proposed that it will take into account the following changes; the final application of the permit has been granted. The prescribed time limits for the postponement of execution are: in the event of a postponement due to the social situation of the debtor and for the maintenance of the economic function of the facility for a maximum period of one year; in the case of a postponement due to an initiative to amend the spatial act pending the implementation of the spatial act or for a maximum period of 3 years; in the case of an application for a building permit submitted, the finality of the decision on the request for a building permit. The proposal for a law does not constitute legalisation of facilities, but merely the postponement of the enforcement of an inspection decision in cases where an inspection decision has already been issued and is already enforceable. Notwithstanding the proposed article, the building inspection shall continue to be the basis for the detection, issuance of an inspection decision and the issuance of inspection measures. If the inspection decision is issued and is enforceable, and the inspector will demonstrate compliance with the prescribed conditions for the enforcement decision, the construction inspection will issue a decision on the postponement of enforcement and wait until the deferral deadline is reached. It is important to point out that, following the expiry of the deadline for the postponement of execution, the construction inspection will be able to carry out an inspection immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. I give my word to Mr. Sam Bevk, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 27th emergency meeting, on 10 December, the Infrastructure and Space Committee considered the proposal of the Law supplementing the Construction of Buildings, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 73rd meeting, on 28 November, that a proposal for a law could be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. Amendments to Article 1 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and to Article 1 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group were tabled within the time limit. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, Mag. Bojan Babič stressed that the Government, at its 25th regular session, had decided to proceed with the preparation and procedure of the adoption of the law, which would regulate the conditions for the legalisation of objects. Until the adoption of a law setting out these conditions, however, the owners of the facilities which will be subject to legalisation and for which inspection decisions have already been issued could be in an unequal position compared to the owners of the facilities for which the inspection decisions have not yet been issued. The decision of enforcement shall take into account the criteria relating to the social situation of the debtor; the economic function of the facility; the fact that the debtor has proposed appropriate amendments to the spatial act that will make it possible to obtain the building permit; and that the municipality has already included its initiative in the process of amending the spatial act and has determined in writing that it will take into account the following changes and the fact that the undertaking has submitted a complete request for a building permit. Ms Marolt stressed that the draft law had been examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The comments expressed in their written opinion are duly taken into account in the amendment of the coalition groups. However, the President of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission had been informed of the Government's intention to address the issue of illegal construction by special law, which would allow for the legalisation of recognized non-problem non-problem works and stated that the Commission of the State Council was in favour of the law. Members expressed their support for the bill to a large extent in the debate. They considered it necessary, pending the adoption of a law laying down the conditions for the legalisation of the facilities, to prevent the situation where the owners of the facilities which would be subject to legalisation and for which the inspection decisions for the removal of the facility or the prohibition of its use could be in an unequal position compared to the owners of the facilities for which the inspection decisions had not yet been issued. The Committee further adopted the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to Article 1. However, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1 was withdrawn. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted both articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Ljubo Žnidar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u181	Honourable President, Honourable Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! The proposal of the Law on the Supplementation of the Construction of Buildings Act, which has been tabled by the Government following an urgent procedure in the legislative procedure, does not solve the issue of illegal construction. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are committed to a systemic and comprehensive solution to the problem, but this can only be addressed by adopting appropriate legislation in that area, which is not the case. Let me remind you that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has already had the solutions that only need to be completed, and the Ministry has had more than enough time to do so since the new government has been on the table for nine months. The proposed amendment sets out the enforcement decree, in some cases even up to three years, which seems to us to be a considerable length. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that it is necessary to legalise all those objects that are not disruptive in space. However, we propose the introduction of a payment deposit that will serve both in the event of the legalisation of the facilities and in the event of a solution. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party has tabled an amendment to the amendment to the Law on the Construction of Buildings, which provides that the provisions of Article 156a of this Law shall not apply in cases where the construction was initiated after the entry into force of this Act. In view of the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support that amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, and we will not support the law itself at this time because it does not provide a comprehensive solution to the legalisation of illegal buildings.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The proposed amendment of the Construction Law will be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. The proposed amendment to the law is a minor amendment, which has not been regulated in the previous marriage. The Law on the Construction of Objects as lex specialis does not regulate the specificity of the postponement of the inspection measures. While this area is governed by the Administrative Procedure Act as a general law, in these cases the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act are very narrow and are interpreted very restrictively in judicial practice. This amendment specifies the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, but it is recalled that a comprehensive system law will be necessary to regulate the construction of buildings, including any legalisation or demolition of illegal works. The novelty shall legitimize the legal basis for the specific conditions for the enforcement decision in justified reasons. The criteria that may delay the execution of the demolition decision shall take into account the social situation of the debtor; the economic function of the facility; the fact that the debtor has proposed appropriate amendments to the spatial act or the fact that the debtor has submitted a complete request for a building permit. As we say, we will support this amendment by the Social Democrats, but we reiterate the need to approach the issue in an integrated and systematic manner. In 2014, the Ministry or Government is expected to submit a comprehensive system law to address the issue of illegal works or their legalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u184	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 25th regular meeting, held in September, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted starting points for resolving the problem of illegal construction. In the course of the measures adopted, it is also envisaged that a law on the legalisation of illegal works will be adopted which will allow for the legalisation of non-problem facilities. In addition to the legalisation of illegal constructions, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has decided to adopt new spatial and construction legislation, as it is aware that a more comprehensive approach is needed to address this problem, which will not only reduce their number in the future, but also eliminate the reasons for their occurrence. A law that will specify the conditions under which illegal constructions can be legalised will be adopted by the Government at the beginning of next year, and it could therefore happen that owners of facilities already subject to an inspection decision to remove or prohibit the use of facilities would be in an unequal situation with those undertakings where the procedure for illegal construction has not yet started or such a decision has not yet been issued. In order not to do so, the amendment of the Construction Act, in particular Article 156a, introduces into the law the possibility of delaying the implementation of inspection measures when certain conditions are met. At this point, it is necessary to make it clear that the enforcement decision itself does not yet constitute a legalisation of illegal works, non-compliant works and buildings used without a valid authorisation, but merely a temporary suspension of the procedures initiated. The execution will be decided by the construction inspector on a proposal from the party in the procedure, i.e. the owner of the illegal construction, non-conform building or facility without the appropriate use permit. It should be noted that the delay in execution will not be able to apply in cases where dangerous construction is involved, because of course it is fully understandable. As this is a test instrument, which is also known in other European countries, which will serve as a basis for the further decision of the inspection bodies, which will serve both property owners, citizens and citizens as well as the economic sector better in the context of the revised environmental and building legislation, since it is not possible to overlook the social and economic interests of the applicant, we will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u186	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Franci Bogovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u187	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Before us is an amendment to the Construction Act, which deals mainly with the enforcement of inspection measures in the area of illegal construction, non-conform building and facilities used without a prescribed usable permit. This is an emergency exit, which has proved more than obvious to be necessary, given that the already mentioned law on the construction of buildings, which would have provided for the legalization or demolition of illegally built buildings, is not yet on the table. A while ago, we witnessed unloved events in Bohinjsk, where objects collapsed until the state ran out of money to tear down. That is why I think it is good that such a complementary proposal has come to the National Assembly, and above all it is right that a complete amendment of the law will come as soon as possible to resolve this gray zone which is being created in the Slovenian space due to the really impossible spatial legislation. Laws that require years and years to adopt municipal spatial plans and in some way challenge people to illegal construction. In the introduction, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party we will support such a proposal on the amendments to the law. Because we think that it would be really wrong to demolish objects within a few months that could be legalized after six months if they were not harmful to the environment and did not cause any danger. These are facilities where people live, facilities where economic activity is carried out, as well as facilities for which an amendment to the spatial act has already been tabled, or even a building permit. When we examined this law in detail, we decided to table an amendment. We have proposed that article 1a be added, which reads as follows: "The provisions of Article 156a of the Law shall not apply in cases where the construction was initiated after the application of this Act." I think it is right to give a clear signal that we do not invite people to illegally build, by now in some way, to suspend the inspection procedures for those who already have these decisions. For if those who start black construction procedures after the implementation of this decision were to count on no one to visit them as long as they meet one of the conditions set out therein, this could cause a certain confusion on the ground. With this substantive amendment, we want to limit this gray zone, which could be created again. Therefore, I propose that you, your fellow Members and colleagues take a closer look at the amendment and accept it. In the SLS Group, we predict support for both the amendment and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u189	I thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Allow me to begin my position on the DeSUS Group with some figures on the situation in the field of so-called black buildings. On 31 May 2013, the construction inspection was conducted in 8 000 724 cases. Of these, there were a thousand 450 cases with a legal and enforceable decision authorising enforcement. In 2013, a total of 178 facilities were removed by blacksmiths and 373 were granted administrative permission or legalised. The forced execution of the removal of the facility was carried out in fifteen cases. According to some estimates, the actual number of illegal constructions is estimated to be about three times higher than the number of illegal constructions currently found under the inspection procedures. Much more is expected to be non-conformity – according to some estimates, even up to 90% of all existing buildings. The problem of black construction is very difficult according to the figures listed in the Republic of Slovenia. Many constructions come from a time when legislation was much looser or more domestically carried out. Today, however, more emphasis is placed on regulating the space than ever before, so black construction needs to be legalised if there is a possibility, or those that cannot be legalised, to be broken. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that those who want to legalise the object and have already begun to regulate the documentation for legalisation deserve the opportunity to do so. Bureaucratic procedures for obtaining a building permit are still very long and complicated despite many measures already taken to improve the response of official services, so many fail to obtain a construction permit in time despite the fact that the construction inspection has already issued a decision to execute the removal of the facility. At the same time, we must not forget that the construction inspection has no legal basis to allow the legal postponement of the executions of the decisions already taken to remove the black construction facility. Therefore, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group support the proposal for a law supplementing the Construction of Buildings Act, which introduces into our legal order the possibility of a one-year moratorium on the execution of the demolition of unauthorised objects. We agree with the Minister's assessment that the proposal for a law will prevent possible injustices that could arise prior to the re-establishment of the system regime in this area. The aim of the bill is thus to legalise a temporary general moratorium on the enforcement of inspection measures relating to illegal construction, non-compliant construction and facilities used without a prescribed usable permit, thus allowing for the levelling of the conditions for the possibility of legalisation of facilities which will be allowed by a specific law. At the same time, the aim of the law is to systematically regulate specific cases of postponement for justified reasons as a special arrangement, in addition to the possibilities provided for by the General Administrative Procedure Act for the enforcement decision. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that he has protected enough in the bill of incorporation to prevent possible abuses, such as a copy of the property that could save the owner's housing difficulties and move to another person in the event of a breakdown of black construction. Nevertheless, I must point out that those who do nothing to legalise their so-called black construction should not be shown to be a victim of the system when such an object is demolished. Those who live consciously in such a facility, namely, from other citizens who have arranged all the necessary paperwork for the legal construction of their property, paid all the necessary taxes and taxes for it, pay all the contributions honestly each year, are simply making fun of it. And we believe that in this case the demolition of black construction is appropriate. However, consistency must be taken into account and the same treatment of both a simple person and a wealthy or functional person. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u190	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! That the area of black construction in Slovenia is an acute problem, sparrows are already chirping on the roofs. Or, as the group said Responsibilities to space is a symptom of the weaknesses of the space management system and a serious spatial, economic and social problem of Slovenia. In addition to the elaborate black constructions of some influential men discovered by the media, there are also a number of ordinary citizens among black builders who for such or other reasons did not build legally. About a month ago, we were able to monitor the demolition of a brunette that had been standing in the vicinity of Bohinj for a long time. To the unemployed man, who was the only residence for this brunette, the inspectors ordered the demolition before winter, and they did not give in to this decision. All by regulations, it has been said, but in doing so remains a bad taste, because we know that those most influential and capable of tearing down their black castles have been stalling for several years and these facilities are still standing today. All of this suggests that the area of black construction needs to be taken under scrutiny and that clear rules of legalisation and demolition are clearly laid down. Christian Democrats will not oppose the demolition of illegally built buildings. At the same time, we expect the Government and the competent ministry to prepare a harmonised and comprehensive system of legalisation as soon as possible, as also pointed out by the Group Responsible for Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Iva Dimic. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u193	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision at its 25th regular meeting to take action to address the problem of illegal construction, and measures in this area also include the adoption of today's amendment to allow for the legalisation of non-problem construction. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia points out that, despite professional planning and solutions, the regulation of space in Slovenia has always been misused by voluntary blacksmiths, as legalisations have become a systemic solution to the regulation of space over the past years. We don't agree to such solutions. We therefore demand that the competent authorities of the Ministry immediately approach the records of unauthorised interventions to the premises and then prepare appropriate legislation to prevent black construction, including with appropriate controls and high sanctions. The new law regulates the conditions for the enforcement of inspection decisions relating to illegal construction and non-conformity of construction or a facility used without a prescribed usable permit, except for hazardous construction that endangers property, health and life of people, traffic, adjacent buildings or their surroundings. The proposed solution provides that the enforcement decision shall, at the request of the debtor, be addressed to a construction inspection which may be approved no more than once if the legal conditions are met. The criteria for the enforcement decision shall take into account the circumstances relating to the social situation of the debtor, the ability to provide a replacement residence, the economic function of the facility and the circumstances which indicate that the debtor proposes an appropriate amendment to the spatial act which will enable the acquisition of a building permit or that it has already submitted a complete request for a building permit. Since this is a short-term solution and a proposal for a law on the legalisation of non-problem constructions will be prepared in the coming year, which will address the issue of black construction more comprehensively, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will vote in favour of the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate on articles or an amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SLS Group for a new Article 1.a. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. I will only point out once again and appeal to the Members and Members that this amendment we are proposing is very meaningful to support. It is a matter of adding a new Article 1a to Article 1 (1), which reads as follows: "The provisions of Article 156a of the Law shall not apply in cases where the construction was initiated after the application of this Act." Earlier in his position, colleague Franz Bogovic had pointed out that this law would in individual cases allow for a shortcut to legalise construction in cases where construction is not permitted under the applicable rules. On this occasion, I would therefore like to ask for the position of the representative of the applicant of this law, in fact, what the applicants think of this amendment. But I think it makes sense, by some logic, that this amendment is accepted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on in accordance with the timetable of the meeting 30 minutes after the end of agenda item 6 [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? I didn't see a representative or a secretary of state come forward. If you'd like, I'm still offering you a chance to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Together with the legal service, we have examined the proposed amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The Legal Service has expressed the view that this amendment does not bring greater security or solution, as the proposed amendment to the law regulates the matter in a way that, even if construction begins after the implementation of this law, those undertakings that start building after the implementation of this amendment of the law are still subject to inspection supervision. And if the inspector comes in this case, he can act in the same way as in any other case. And if the inspector finds that the start of construction is inconsistent with the applicable legislation or regulations, the decision shall also be issued for him, and this decision shall immediately after the suspension has expired become legal and such an object shall begin to collapse. In the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we do not believe that this amendment is necessary, so the Government does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u198	Would you like to discuss it again? Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u199	I didn't get it right. I have read in detail Article 156.a, which states that if an inspector issues a decision for an object where someone is staying, where an economic activity is carried out, or where someone has tabled a proposal to amend the municipal spatial plan or to issue a building permit, a postponement is possible. Does this now mean that since the adoption of this law we have been opening up the field in the area of construction, everyone will try to get into the situation as soon as possible as allowed in these exceptions? To stimulate black construction or to let everyone know in advance that if they do not get it by the time they move in or start doing this thing, the matter will be free of these harsh sanctions that have been prescribed so far? I think it's the wrong signal. I'm afraid of something else. We have heard you say that these laws will be passed at the beginning of the year, in spring, in the National Assembly. Regrettably, the experience so far suggests that there is a need for debate on the Construction of Buildings Act and that these matters are often very engrossed. I therefore expect that, unfortunately, this arrangement will not only last a few months, as has been said today and as we all hope, but will be valid for a longer period. This means that next year, after accepting these exceptions, everyone will see that there is no problem of moving into the editing house within 14 days, staying there, waiting for the front and the matter is over. I think it's the wrong signal. In such cases, cases shall normally be settled in reverse, on a cut-off date and order shall be established. Isn't that true in this case? So I don't understand why you can't support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u200	Would you like another word, Mr. Babic? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u201	Mr Secretary of State, I cannot be satisfied with your answer. In response, you said that inspectors have the authority they already have under the law to ensure and ensure that these illegal constructions are not. Then I wonder why today we are dealing with a thousand 500 and some illegal or black constructions in the Republic of Slovenia if you think everything works so well. It doesn't work so well. And this proposal would, in a way, deal with the legal work of inspection services and, of course, immediately settle the problem with those possible speculators who could start today with illegal black construction and then treat them the same way, regardless of the adoption of this law. I really don't get it. In your opinion, this is the work of inspectors, but if we have so many and so many illegal black buildings, now we see what the job of inspectors is. So we can say that these solutions were bad in the past. Today, solutions are being proposed to resolve this problem, to improve the situation, but there is no listening to it. I really don't get it. We are now giving some speculators with only legislation the opportunity to start under construction even at the moment of the adoption of this law. This is, in my opinion, a non-systemic approach that opens up a field of disorder.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u203	Sometimes the mayor's experience just comes along, so you know what you're talking about. That's how Comrade Žnidar could speak, so I can speak myself. I can give you an example from the congregation where I was mayor. At some point, a group of speculators — literally, as it was said — were looking for a target — empty walls that could be used slightly to be residential units. Even house numbers have been received on the Geodetic Board and I tell you that most of these facilities are suitable for people to move in within fourteen days. Then you take it slow and it's settled. And given what we're taking, you're on the safe side. I think that so far there has been some spatial planning and control of these matters, despite many anomalies, which are often obvious, but still some spatial order. Now, I fear that from tomorrow or the moment the law enters into force, every citizen will know that he can move into the building, that he can propose to the municipality a change in the municipal spatial plan, which we then change for eight years, not three years – as you have an exception in it – and he will be safe. And so we can have overnight, New Year's Eve, the number of such cases with multiples. Because many people have built such an object from such speculation. In particular, I can say that in wine-growing areas where the walls were built in the 1970s, 80 ’ s, because there was more to drink and because people obviously had more time to walk in the mountains, today a lot of people are empty because people don’t know what to do with it. I can calmly say that I can see for the environment from which I come, a few hundred new problems in a few months. And I don't think it was meant to open up any new problems. But if you open this option now, not only will they build more quickly, but existing objects that are not in this function today will be transformed into living facilities within a few weeks, because people will stay in them. I'd be more careful on this matter. I hope that this old manner will not now apply, that the opposition does not suggest anything clever. Mr Presečnik also consulted our Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly, and it was also stipulated that this would be among the transitional provisions. And I don't know if all the legislation really covers everything and protects everything. What would be the harm of another such supplement that we are now proposing, in which it is explicitly clear that the suspension of executions applies to buildings that have been built so far? Not that sometimes people have done it with fear, but from today on, they will do it on the basis of speculation, so that nothing will happen to them. I believe that inspectors will have at least a few vacations or holidays over the new year, and I would not be too sure that there will be many such black buildings and facilities for which we will have a lot of problems in the future. I would be more careful on this matter, Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u204	Mr. Joža Velikonja has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. My comment on the proposed amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party would be that illegal construction is prohibited by law. However, the proposed amendment and the amendment of the law are concerned that facilities already subject to legal decisions may be suspended when the application is made. Therefore, I do not see any fear of these cases being referred to by my previous discussers. As a matter of fact, black construction is forbidden by law and I see no need for such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u207	Thank you very much again. I really don't understand and I don't understand why the Secretary of State says that this amendment or this provision to this article is unnecessary and where the problem is that this provision is not adopted. This amendment has no financial implications. Last but not least, you said earlier that inspection services would be checked and that those black constructions that would take place after the adoption of this law would be subject to inspection services. It's true, I agree with that. But with this, the inspection services will be further burdened, because I am sure that even though black construction is prohibited, those speculators who are subject to it will still take advantage of it. And the inspection services will be tight and additionally burdened. So I really don't understand. Is the problem because the opposition MPs are proposing this amendment? In any case, this amendment improves the case. It does not bring any changes to this article, does not make any changes to the content itself, but actually makes it impossible for certain speculators to appear who would take advantage of this law and start illegal construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Then we conclude with this agenda item. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the voting time schedule, this is said to be the end of the 6th item of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed energy law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the State Secretary of Mags for further explanation. Bojan Babic. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. I see one representative of the government here. There's no government representative. Then we'll just keep going, unless he steps through the door right now. We'll give him half a minute 'cause they didn't announce any delays. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, as a parent working body, and I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The Committee on Infrastructure and Space, at three meetings, at a total length of around 13 hours, from 29 November to 5 December, considered the proposal for an energy law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. At its 47th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly held a general debate on the draft law and adopted the conclusion that the draft law was suitable for further consideration. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Energy, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the members of the coalition, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the Social Democrats' Group. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag. Bojan Kumer said that the proposed law is a system law that fully introduces European legislation in the field of energy market, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, enhances the transparency of legal regulation in this field and also complies with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It introduces new strategic documents such as the Energy Concept of Slovenia and the National Energy Development Plan into the field of energy policy. He said that the proposed law needed to be adopted, since, otherwise, Slovenia would have to pay around EUR 20 to 22,000 a day for the failure to implement the two European directives. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the written opinion that the starting point for their opinion had been the opinion which had already been submitted to the amendment of the Energy Law in the spring, since the comments made at the time when the draft law was drafted had not been sufficiently taken into account. However, the President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, said that the Commission supported the proposal for a law, since according to the proposaler's assurances, the law was intended to primarily protect and provide household consumers with lower energy prices. In the debate, members of the opposition drew attention to the scope of the proposed law. In their view, it would be better to regulate matter in a number of laws in a single set, as it would be very difficult to apply and interpret a comprehensive law in practice. In addition, the procedures envisaged in the proposed text are very liberal and the provisions of the law are very complex and difficult to understand, which could lead to a number of abuses in practice. Members of the coalition said they supported the proposed law because it had to be adopted in order to implement the two directives which would impose high penalties on Slovenia if the law were not adopted. In addition, they received government assurances that the proposed law protects consumers and small customers. We have, of course, talked about many areas of this law, which has 556 articles. With regard to energy licences, the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space explained that, in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Directive, an energy document demonstrating energy efficiency is an energy-efficiency public document and should be submitted when selling or broadcasting the building or its work. We also spoke extensively on the Committee about the powers of the Public Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to control and sanction violations. The Committee then adopted 92 amendments to the parliamentary groups, with 53 amendments from the parliamentary groups not supported. The Committee also adopted 58 of its amendments. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. As chairman of the committee, I am very grateful to all those who have participated on our committee, which lasted for 13 hours, as well as to the representatives of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u210	Thank you. Since the Assembly held a general debate at its 47th extraordinary meeting on the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The debate will be held in accordance with the review of the amendments, with date 13. 12. 2013 I am putting to the debate article 23 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendments - under point 1 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, under point 2 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, under point 3 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and under point 4 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. The word is Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to point out in the introduction that the debate on the Committee was useful for all participants, so I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee for a well-managed debate. As for our amendment, we propose once again that the word "after the Minister's prior consent" be deleted in the first paragraph. It is about adopting local energy concepts, where we believe that this is an unnecessary bureaucratic obstacle or an unnecessary signature at a stage when the document is being prepared because it speaks of the Minister's prior agreement. We are once again proposing that this indent be corrected and that this part be deleted. It is referred to as "the prior consent of the Minister responsible for Energy" in Article 27, paragraph 1. In the third paragraph, we propose to delete the first sentence, which states that the local energy concept is also linked to action plans and other documents, which, in our view, is unnecessary to re-enter, since the local energy concept also has other preconditions under which it must actually achieve these objectives. And it is irrelevant that the law with a bureaucratic requirement should be reburdened, including by reference to Article 24, where it also speaks of improving air quality and similar things, as this is included in other documents, so we propose that the first forecast sentence be deleted. We also propose to delete paragraph 7 in this Article. It is a condition that the local energy concept is adopted every 10 years or more. Our view is that it should be the same as for national energy development plans, so that it can be renewed every ten years. We therefore propose that this seventh indent, which travels to renew these energy concepts every 10 years, be deleted. We believe that this is still too much of a demand for local communities, especially from the experience we have with the adoption of local or municipal spatial plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u212	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Fox, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u213	Thank you. Good-bye! I hope that I am allowed to talk about the entire Article 27. We're talking about a local energy concept. A few hours ago, there was a lot of talk about congregations and reducing bureaucracy. Personally, I think that, as long as we have municipalities as some sovereign entities in our country, it is absolutely unnecessary and pointless that in local energy concepts, where municipalities themselves decide how they will be active in the coming years or decades, this is accepted by requiring the Minister's prior consent. Why is that unnecessary? The Ministry has only said that this is an idea or a solution such as that already exists in the existing law. If we are already changing the law, it is only right that we put meaningless solutions out of the law, not that we are still pushing them in. In short, as long as we have 211 congregations, we can only imagine what this means for the minister to give his prior consent. I have already said on the committee that we do not have any minister who would be a superman who knows the local energy concepts of all municipalities, and that is also why I find this completely pointless and even impossible in practice. More. Both the Ministry and the municipalities are given a new bureaucracy. As we all know, bureaucracy costs, so we are really proposing a smart solution that the phrase "after the prior consent of the Energy Minister" be deleted. In short, local communities or municipalities should decide for themselves what the local energy concept will be. More. We also propose deleting the requirement that the local energy concept be adopted every 10 years. There is no need for this, given that the proposal also provides that the energy concept of Slovenia is adopted for the next 20 years or for a period of up to 40 years. So there is no need for congregations to burden themselves to do so more often and more. We also propose deleting Article 10. All those local governments or municipalities that have already met with the adoption of the municipal spatial plan know how much effort and how much time it takes to arrange it, and there is really no need for all those municipalities that have already adopted the municipal spatial plan to re-emphasize local energy concepts in the UN novel. By 2015, we hope that all municipalities will have any spatial plans, even though when adopting the Spatial Planning Act, as I have already said, by an official at the competent ministry full of speeches, how in the next three years will we have the opportunity to have all the municipalities' spatial plans. It has been behind us for more than five years, but we do not have it yet, and with local energy concepts, the whole issue of energy planning in the field of local communities is only additionally bureaucratic and we are giving municipalities new financial resources. Therefore, we really urge the coalition Members to accept our well-intentioned amendments to Article 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u214	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Mag. Bojan Kumru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Allow me first to sincerely apologize that we were a few seconds late, even though we were in the next room, those predicted 30 seconds to get here, passed very quickly. I'm very glad the marriage came to second reading. As already stated by the President of the competent body, Mr Bevk, we have further enriched the text of the Energy Law on the Committee, and I am extremely happy to thank all the professional services of the National Assembly for the excellent quality of the work they have done because they have added value to the content of the Energy Law itself. We do not support the amendment to Article 27 because we want the strategic documents introduced by this Energy Act to be developed in a new way, at least in the field of energy. We want a coherent development of energy policy in Slovenia and we find it unacceptable that local energy concepts develop in their own way. Although some claim that Slovenia is small, it is large enough that this could happen a few years later. And it is not true that the Minister himself would examine all local energy concepts manually, as a special expert team at the Ministry has been trained to do so, as has been the case in the past. We don't change anything with this, things run well, it's an escape procedure. We do not take note of any comments or complaints made by local communities in order to delay, prolonged or additional administrative burden. However, it could be very risky to leave anything behind because it could have long - term consequences. As I said, the Energy Act itself newises the strategic documents – the umbrella energy concept, the Energy Concept of Slovenia, the National Development Energy Plan, which will be subordinated – so it is desirable if we want Slovenia's consistent development in the field of energy, that local energy concepts are aligned in the same direction with the state energy concept. Nor does it argue that there is any explicit consistency elsewhere, because this sentence must remain, but I also justify this by justifying that the documents adopted at the country level, locally or in the regions, should be harmonised, somehow synchronized, and in doing so they should be broken. This could lead to a much higher risk in the long term than, say, a populist one, but now it would put a heavy burden on an administrative burden if there was no consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u216	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u217	I'll be brief. All of our proposals in this article are aimed at reducing these bureaucratic obstacles, for which all of you are committed in your programmes, and I believe that it will be illogical for all those who know local self-government to have the LEK act above the local spatial plan. That's all we're warning you about. We do not agree to the re-establishment of a new document which denies all the documents already prepared by local communities. We would like to point out this, and yet I suggest that all those who will vote take a close look at what our amendments are contributing to, because they are actually going in the direction of reducing this bureaucratic pressure on manufacturers and also on local communities. The LEK foresees that local communities will have to produce them and we do not agree that the LEK is an act that is above the local spatial plan. And this would cause another problem and additional costs to the municipalities, without need. It is clear that local energy concepts must be in line with all the legislation in this area, with all the action plans, but you are putting this above the existing regulation that exists in space at this point. I therefore suggest that Members just look at these articles and find that we are again causing additional costs to local communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u218	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State, mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u219	Thank you. I'll be brief too. In fact, we can turn things around in a different direction. If we just assume that the Local Energy Concept is mandatory for local communities, but no one examines it or at least gives consent to an expert service, it is in fact for itself and it is an unnecessary additional bureaucratic burden. If we want coherent regional development, we must certainly ensure this, and I think this will be demonstrated in the short term, if not in the medium term at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u220	Thank you. I note that there are no applications for debate, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 34, and paragraph 1 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, under point 2 of the amendment of the members of the coalition and under point 3 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 40 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 46 and paragraph 1 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and paragraph 2 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I give my word to Sam Bevko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Article 49 speaks of vulnerable customers and emergency care. In the SD Group of Members, we support the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups concerning the fourth paragraph of this Article, which deletes that the costs are borne by the vulnerable customer or his legal heir, but says that the costs of emergency care for vulnerable customers are justified by the costs of the operator. With regard to the criteria, I have to say that we have already, in our own examination of the labour force of the Social Democrats, stated that the determination of the criteria is not only left to the distribution system operators, but we have introduced the solution set out in the third paragraph to be prepared by the system operator in accordance with the rules and criteria prescribed by the RS Public Energy Agency as an independent and professional body, while the distributors view this primarily from a profitable point of view. We believe that this situation for vulnerable customers and for emergency care will be more fairly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u222	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 76 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 78 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u223	This amendment cannot be supported. An amendment has been adopted on the Committee, which has adequately regulated the scope of the economic public service, the distribution operator's activities, by having one operator in the entire country, as we are witnessing today. With this amendment of the coalition, the possibility of having this activity dispersed is restored. There's no telling how many operators there should be. In theory, there can be 20 or 30 or 8. The activity will therefore be dispersed and introduced into a new one, which means that the possibility of privatising this system will also be given, which is bad. In the long run, this means an unstable supply of electricity, and we will come into a situation that some other countries have where their systems are meeting so much. This is not happening in Slovenia because we have a stable system, a single system – the concession is awarded to one and if it is not good, the government has the opportunity at any time to take this concession and grant it to another. But it's unacceptable that this system is being sprayed. We therefore propose not to accept this amendment, because it poses a threat, on the one hand, to the proper supply of electricity in the future and on the other hand, to the lobbyist approach of some who have succeeded in bringing this article back through this amendment into law, which allows for the future privatisation of the work of this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u224	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u225	As a further reinforcement of what Zvona Černač said, I can also say that on the Committee this article and the amendment, which was then adopted and is now incorporated into the draft law, has had a great deal of debate, and in the end the unanimous confirmation and acceptance of this article and the dictatorship which is now in law. And now you're trying to bring the matter back with the amendment. In your explanation, you say: "It is better to leave the arrangement as it is in the law in force, so that it is possible to grant one concessionaire for the whole country as well as several concessionaires," and so on. You're also getting a little carried away with your explanation. It is also now regulated that this is granted to one concessionaire and, as has already been pointed out, this is, in terms of the stability of supply, the right solution, which has proved to be a solid element for all to have quality electricity supply in the longer term. I think that re-inclusion of the possibility of the law to disperse this is a major problem that can arise, because we know that certain areas are more subject to economic interest, while in some areas there is no economic interest, so there can be a lot of problems if that is accepted. The next problem is that this will also allow for some privatisation that will not be controlled. Above all, once again, the current system is talking about one operator, which has proved to be the most stable system and there are no problems in the supply area, while in neighbouring countries where similar attempts have been made, the system has always returned to one operator to make the system stable. I suggest that there remain a dictatorship that is in the current writing and that we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u226	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State, mag Boyan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that the amendment to Article 76 has been adopted by the Committee and it is appropriate that this amendment should now be adopted or left open for a third debate. In particular, let me add, on my behalf, that in this amendment or in these articles, during the summer months, between June and August, a great deal of effort and I am extremely pleased to say today that this article has been professionally coordinated among all the stakeholders affected by the article – among the distribution companies, we have 5 in Slovenia, between the system operator of the distribution network and, of course, between the independent regulator, i.e. the agency responsible for the regulatory period. As an important participant in all of this, the energy union is also very much in favour of this amendment. That is why I cannot imagine the rejection of this amendment, because this means that something that has been adopted as a broader consensus in the professional energy public would then be politically rejected. It is normal that this can happen theoretically, but we believe that we are following the profession and, above all, the consensus reached at this point, that this is the only right thing to do and that this amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u228	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u229	We have not heard any arguments in favour of this regulation. Why is it better that we have more distributors? Why is this system, which we now have with one concession for the whole country, not appropriate? What is the argument that we have ten of them or that we have for individual areas that are highly profitable those that are more dedicated, for others that are less profitable and those that are less devoted? That's what this article's all about. Let's be clear about what this is all about. It is a decommissioning of a stable energy system in this country, because some have certain interests that do not go in the direction of better supply, lower prices or something like that. On the outside, yes, but there are other interests in the background, and I would like to hear arguments about why this system that we have today is bad, does not work, collapses, is ineffective, what is wrong with it and why the new system will be better. Probably, however, we do not accept this Energy Act because of the interest of the labour union working in energy, but because of the full stability of energy, thus also ensuring an adequate standard of people working in energy and on the other hand the interests of consumers. Probably mostly because of the latter. And now I want to hear the arguments why what you're suggesting is better. I am particularly disturbed when you say that we should accept the amendment so that the article remains open. If you are sure this is okay, why should the article remain open for third reading?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u230	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u231	Thank you. I would not spend time, so I can send you many arguments that were born according to this meeting, but certainly not one of them claims that you fear to support some privatisation with this article. In Slovenia we have 100 years of electricity distribution. In 2007, a third artificial body, systemically over this distribution network, was established under the then government for 100 years of tradition. I say that in Slovenia we have a well-functioning system of electricity distribution and we do not change anything, because if we did not accept this amendment, we would in fact restrict any good solution from this area in the energy concept of Slovenia, which we do not want. But there can still be a solution that you are proposing. In any case, we currently have one system operator of the distribution network, for which the Court of Auditors issued a special decision in 2011 and now it is necessary to look at the coming period when we will also have to achieve this part with the energy concept of Slovenia. I am always in favour of always looking for the best possible solution in the broader professional debate, so I do not know why we should close it with law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u232	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? Blackbell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u233	Mr Kumer, these are the arguments that the current regime, as adopted by the Committee, should be maintained. Now you have argued that an arrangement is maintained that allows the implementation of a compulsory public service through one distribution operator, but not through more of them. The arguments were in favour of what we now have adopted, not in favour of the amendment. So I understand that your arguments, unlike your actions, support the current solution and are against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u235	This is a very important amendment concerning a very important area, so I will read again what you wrote in your explanation. "We believe that it is better to leave the regime as it is in the law in force, so that it is possible to grant one concessionaire for the whole country as well as several concessionaires in the fields.".. That's all the explanation you have. This leaves us with more options to find a way to organise the distribution sector. We have already discussed this on the Committee and there was no argument to break the existing regime, which in fact establishes a solid system in electricity. And none of these arguments show what you want to say. You're just letting go of the open hunt and it's already been said, some parts can be subject to it and they're interesting for the commercial story you want, and some parts in this country will never be. And once this system is destroyed, the stability of this system is shattered. And nowhere in Europe has a similar arrangement been established. Wherever they went to privatisation of a certain part of the sector, a single management system was restored after the first accident. So I would also like to hear an argument from you, because this explanation suggests that this argument is not worth supporting and we have also found this on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u236	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u237	Just for a little while. These two articles are linked so that, if the amendment to Article 78 is rejected, the amendment to Article 79 should also be rejected. These two articles are sort of twins, and they were also updated on the committee at the same time. In our opinion, they provide on the one hand security of electricity supply and some stability in the energy system itself through one operator to which the State grants the concession. Once again, I stress that if the concessionaire country is not satisfied, it can also be replaced, but the system should be stable, not more than 10, 15 systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u238	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 157 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 169 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 194 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 238, and paragraph 1 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and paragraph 2 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 331 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u239	Thank you very much. As the Secretary of State said in the introduction, we have tried to improve some things, and in one part we have succeeded all of them, so that together we have managed to remove some of the most in-the-sky weaknesses from the law, but we have not managed to resolve the essential issues that Minister Virant spoke about today at the time of the interpretation. This is the part about simplifications, reducing excessive administration, excessive bureaucracy and so on. He said today that a short list of all those things that are unnecessary and so on will be introduced with the congregations to relieve administrative tasks. Now I'm wondering if you're going to come to the 27th section of this Energy Act in a couple of months, because there's a lot of nonsense about the previous consent of the Minister for the LEK and so on. This is a pure bureaucratic story, which is unnecessary, which needlessly increases administration, prolongs procedures because we know that local energy concepts must be aligned with the energy programme, concepts and so on. Not to mention harmonisation or which act is higher – municipal spatial plan or LEK. You say the LEK is above the municipal spatial plan. That's not true. That's not true. The OPN must be coordinated with the LEK. Otherwise, the municipality should coordinate the entire municipal spatial plan as soon as the energy story changes. That's crazy. It is an excessive bureaucracy, an administration that is intended for itself and has no practical application value. There is something similar about the area of energy cards. On this point, we had a very broad debate on the Committee, and we have all learned something in this debate. After a long ordeal, we were able to find out what the price of this energy card will be. The co-workers of the Secretary of State said that it would be about one euro per square metre, and they would firmly answer the question if it meant one apartment house, which has 150 square metres, 150 euros. That's not true. That's not true. On the website, if we go to the ENSVET, where the link is made from the Ministry's website, it clearly states how much the energy card for such an object costs – a minimum of 600 euros. Why does it cost so much? Because around this document, which is essentially some kind of technical document, some part of the project documentation, if we say simply, is almost as simple as some kind of machine installation plan or something else, is created by the whole science and the whole administrative bureaucrat process. And we have not been able to unify here what the directive requires of us. Does it really require this licensing, registration and so on, which further irritates this process of obtaining an energy card? This is why we propose, however, because we are still reading this directive differently, so that this process is burdened to enable all those who meet the conditions of education and work experience to be notified to the Ministry to enter the list and work. And if they don't meet the conditions, the minister will delete them from this list. And that's all it is. To eliminate this whole administrative bureaucratic story about it, because in our view it is absolutely unnecessary. Therefore, we have also tabled an amendment to this Article 331, in particular with a view to simplifying, which will result in the valuation of the production of this document, which will have to have all buildings by 2018 and 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u241	Thank you. At the first reading, we devoted quite a bit of time to the energy cards, and on the committee we almost doctored it, so that in the end, the coalition representatives had more questions than answers. The ministry has also stated that in certain segments they are more papal than a directive to introduce more stringent solutions than the directive proposes and we have taken several breaks to understand what we want. I hope that we all want to make a simplified document from a simple technical document, as the predecessor has called it, that it will be cheap and that there will be no need to resolve some bureaucratic bowels on the energy card. Our amendments from Articles 331 to 345 are quite similar to those on the Committee. To our users, or to all those who will meet with an energy card, that is, all those who will have one-house or multi-housing houses, we want them not to be burdened. This government said the property tax is the last, I'll say the bomb, or the last tax for our citizens. We have repeatedly asked what the price of the energy card will be. On the board, it was said that about one euro per square metre. So from a core document, such as a basic document, a driving document or something like that, the sums will not only be 150 euros further, but also a few thousand euros in multi-housing buildings. We have therefore completely complicated a matter which should be quite simple and therefore I propose that you support our amendments both to Article 331, where we are talking about who is a qualified expert at all, who can deal with the whole issue of the energy card, and also in the subsequent articles, where we are talking about what energy cards should be and so on. Our wish or purpose is to have energy cards, which we all probably agree must be simple documents, without bureaucratic procedures, which would be difficult for both users and citizens as well as officials. And the whole thing's gonna be pretty cheap. The Ministry still insists on the solutions involved in these simplified and valued matters. Our amendments are therefore part of the debate announced by Minister Virant. And once again, like interpretation, we hope that the words of the coalition are not something other than her actions. And that's what you're going to show by supporting our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u242	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You know what's interesting? It is interesting that we are always talking about this bureaucracy and about reducing the burden in the economy and in the population, and we are doing the exact opposite with every change in the law and with every new law. How is that possible? Do we really not understand? Either we don't want to understand or it's worse. I think this amendment is very appropriate and justified. Of course, this law also has some other shortcomings. The government will increase or reduce its energy contribution by means of a regulation, which means that large energy consumers will be burdened again. Energy-intensive companies are already twice as burdened as they are in Germany. How, then, should we have competitive businesses in the global European or global market? So I'm asking you to start doing something different. Let us not impose unnecessary burdens on the economy and the population and, above all, begin to debirocratise. Let us not prescribe a set of some cards that, for the most part, can only be produced by pre-arranged monopolies and thus create conditions for so-called systemic corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u244	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! It is true, as the opposition colleagues have already said, that we had a broad debate on the committee. We even had interruptions that by the next morning we coordinated things, both in the whole chapter on energy cards and then in the 540th article, which discusses the acquisitions and installation of energy cards. Let me first say that, on 1 January 2015, the limit of the applicable floor area referred to in Article 334(1), which refers to facilities which are in use in the public sector where the building manager will have to place the current energy card in a visible place, 500 square metres and that the multi-household building with at least four separate parts, which was built before 1 January 1980, must obtain an energy card by 31 December 2019 at the latest. The draft law established the year 2017 and now extended this period by two years, while the multi-family building with at least four individual parts, which was built after 1 January 1980, must obtain an energy card by 31 December 2030 at the latest. Article 331 states that a more detailed content, form and methodology for the issue of an energy card and the content of the data, the manner in which the register of energy cards is kept and the manner in which the energy card issued is entered into the register of energy certificates will be regulated by the Minister responsible for energy. I, too, have been in the framework of coalition coordination, and then I have also addressed this area on the committee, because I think there will be a lot of complications here. The Minister will have to be very careful and, to put it this way, he will have to write down with a shivering hand all these instructions he will prescribe for these energy cards. The fact is that, in accordance with European legislation, we have to have energy cards and that in European countries this has also been regulated differently, that we know the energy cards, that we know the measurable energy cards, where one for a particular type of facility is the other for another type of facility. One is more expensive than the other. We'll see what the submarital acts will bring, and it might be good for the government representatives to say more about it. But I see the problem mainly in multi-housing buildings, especially older ones, which were built before 1980. They will find it difficult to reconcile if one of the owners wants to sell his apartment or rent it, while the other ten owners will not be interested in obtaining an energy card for the facility and will have to bear that cost. We have therefore also included arrangements to finance this from management costs, i.e. from the reserve housing fund that each multi-housing facility has. I think it will be necessary to monitor very closely how the energy card and everything related to it will be implemented in practice. And it may also need to be changed over a certain period, as it is also now in practice that there are very large differences between the price of each energy card – we have about 120, 130 licensed experts who are qualified to issue an energy card and these prices vary up to 100% or more. I hope that the market will also arrange for us to get a decent price for these energy cards, so that we do not overburden the owners of multi-housing buildings when they want or rent an apartment, sell it, or just until the time limit prescribed in the law, have an energy card. As we say, we need energy cards if we are to have energy savings facilities in our country and if we are to run for the funds offered by the European funds for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u246	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? There are many of you, so I ask you to report to the debate. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. We cannot support this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It says that "the energy card of the sentence is issued by a qualified expert" and that "a qualified expert is considered a legal or natural person who has a registered design activity or technical advice in the Court Registry or in the Business Register of Slovenia." This means that anyone could issue an energy card, any company that has a registered business register, that also deals with technical advice, which basically means that anyone who wants to issue an energy card could issue an energy card, which is just as effective as we do to abolish an energy card, because under such criteria, everyone can issue, sign, and that the paper sheet actually makes no sense that we are introducing these energy cards at all. Here we have to ask ourselves why we are instituting an energy card. A very important part of this is raising awareness of the energy needs of buildings. To realize how much energy our building needs, for example for heating, which in itself leads to a more rational use of energy resources, and thus a more rational use of all the natural resources that we know to be limited. This is the fundamental purpose of the energy card. With rational use of energy, we can save so much energy in Slovenia that we do not have to build additional energy resources, which we will have to build if we do not. This is probably how we could save for some TER 6 or more energy. As I have already mentioned, it is a more rational use of natural resources, but it is also a reduction in pollution. For if we do not use energy rationally, we can quietly cut forests, airbreathing, and before we leave the European Union, because the energy cards are set out in the European Union Directive. As already said by counterpart Cernač, there has been quite a lot of effort at this point and an appropriate effort, and we have indeed improved the solution, including with the help of the opposition, so that I think we should continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u249	Perhaps Mr Pavlišič will reconsider and support this amendment if I tell him that this condition is a copy of the current Article 337 of the Law. We have not invented anything new, but we have copied the conditions that experts must fulfil in order to obtain the Minister's mandate under Article 337. The only difference is that we say that someone who meets these conditions is notified to the register and is registered, so that he does not need another decision to do so. That's the difference. All those who meet the conditions and want to do so are notified and working. The difference is that we do not need any additional administrative procedure in which many other administrative tasks have been put in place, which, as a result, irritates these procedures. If the selection is wider – and I also somehow understood on the committee that the interest of the ministry, that the selection is as wide as possible – then it should be set up in a way that is as wide as possible and that everyone who knows it is able to perform a task that is relatively simple. And they don't need a special license and seal the minister for it. It's enough that they're registered. The directive also talks about this because it says that these experts can do these things whether they are qualified or not. Article 17 of the Directive states that they shall be notified and made public that the public knows who they are. It does not refer to any particular licensing or specific regulated professions for this activity. What Mr Bevk was talking about is, in fact, support for this amendment to Article 331. The arguments are about support. I therefore propose that you support us in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u250	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u251	Thank you. I will support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think a little red tape is needed in this area. People who are qualified to do this. It surprises me, Mr Pavlišič, that those who swear to liberal values are now suddenly sworn to license with the minister and so on. Let's do as much as we can to get rid of it! Let qualified people do what they're trained to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u252	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. Mr. Jože the Great, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. I believe that the provision in the basic article of this law is quite appropriate. And in the claims that this amendment brings about some kind of debirocratization, I don't believe it. If we look at the fifth indent of this basic Article, it states that the entries are made at the request of the party and the amendment to this Article does not contain this essential element. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u254	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u255	Thank you. It is also right that I address the subject of energy cards, and then I will speak a little less later. I'm going to try and get more stuff. It is true that on the committee we have further enriched this content and brought it closer to both sides. I think it was worth it. At the end of the day, we made a good compromise because we followed the basic concept and at the same time took great steps against your wishes. What Mr. Vogrin said is simply not true. I don't know what some of the contributions of renewable energy sources to energy cards have to do with this point. Nor does it hold that labour-intensive companies will be further burdened and that this law will bring some additional burdens. Rather, what the Government has proven since 1.9.2013, since we have reduced our contribution to renewable energy sources for the labour intensive economy by 47%. As far as energy cards are concerned, I'm going to invest some time in history and explain how we got these energy cards. I'd rather have them today. The EZB Act, adopted by the Government in 2006, introduced energy certificates. It is not clear to me that in the Slovenian law we have already passed the cards, but today we are just before 2014, how eight years have you not been able to establish the energy card in the system. My favorite would be to have an energy card system already in place. But we do not have it, and several directives under this law have already changed, so if we do not want to receive the penalty under this heading, we must establish an energy card system. Indeed, the situation is as it is, and I always say that we can view the card as a cost or as an investment, because the essence of the energy card is that and will be, on the other hand, energy cards annexed to the first page, those measures to reduce the costs of this facility, property, apartment or house. And that's what the energy card is all about. To know the cost of this property. And the whole of Europe has established this system, and Slovenia also needs to establish this system, and I think we have been very united on the committee, but we still have to transpose the directives. In the EGF Act, which the Government once sent to the hearing, you clearly defined the energy card as a public document, which means that you are now denying yourself by this amendment. I understand we're on camera today and we want to be liked by those who listen to us, but I wouldn't scare people. After all, whoever is not selling real estate today does not need to make an energy card. None. In Slovenia, however, we probably sell very much houses and apartments, so that the very next day, when we legalize our energy cards, I don't know how many real estates will be sold. At least in these times. The simple truth is that we need an energy card and we need to pass it on. Article 17 of the Directive relating to this amendment requires that experts be empowered taking into account their competence. On the basis of the above proposal, anyone who has an adequate education and is registered as an undertaking could do so. Since it is quite an interdisciplinary content in itself in the production of an energy card, of course, by the said education under the second indent of this amendment, we do not get adequately qualified people. This has also been acknowledged on the committee by us that we will not properly transpose the directive. Just because an expert has a technical education doesn't mean he can make an energy card. I believe that there will still be a lot of passwords on the subject of energy cards today, but we must not ignore the fact that we are also late here and that after eight years of legalizing energy cards, we must bite this sour apple and establish a system. In the future financial perspective, Europe will have resources in its cohesion funds exclusively for the purposes of the public sector's energy cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u256	Thank you, too. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u257	Thank you. Maybe just an answer to the Secretary of State. I don't think any of us have said that energy cards are necessary. In my opinion, we all agree that they are needed for various reasons, but our wish is that in these energy cards we do not doctorate, that they are technically simple, that in the whole process until the adoption of the energy card there are increasingly less bureaucratic obstacles and that the prices of energy cards for users are the least. You said we were eight years late, Mr. Secretary of State. I don't think that in the printery we have down at the National Assembly, we have any special machine where we can run an energy card, so ask the people at the Ministry that I believe are not guilty of. And it's not your fault, ministers and secretary of state, it's that part of the officials who should have taken care of it and obviously wasn't good enough to solve this problem in the past few years. But we're not just talking about energy cards. In the area of environment and space, we have many problems where we are late. Just look at the municipal spatial plans. Let us look at the existing Article 313 after what we have adopted on the Committee and Article 337 and Article 339 concerning the licences of an independent expert. We want to bring this procedure into line with the European Directive and nothing more. We do not want to be more papal than the pope and enter into the law some segments where we are essentially raising our own price, in this case energy cards, and we are giving ourselves bureaucratic obstacles. As I said before on the committee, I have a feeling that these bureaucratic obstacles are being done so that some who are dealing with these matters have something to do this afternoon. I do not mean the Minister or the Secretary of State, but it is obvious that some want to make extra and good money with this democracy, which is also being introduced here. We are opposed to this in the SDS, and we are proposing such amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u259	I did not want to make any further calls, but since the Secretary of State has once again said one fact that is not recorded in the directive, it is also right for other Members to know this. This energy card under the Directive is not a condition for incentives or for various instruments that promote renewable resources, so do not frighten people that if they do not have an energy card, they will not be able to access or obtain any action under the Directive under this heading. This is not true and this is not what we have already cleared up on the Committee in the directive. So please don't say that, Secretary of State, because it doesn't say that in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u260	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Tinker Bell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u261	Thank you. If the energy card is produced by experts who will be entered in the register, it will be no less public document than if it is produced by experts who will need to be authorised by a decision of the Minister. The same kind of public charter will be this. I don't know what part this has to do with the directive. The Directive refers to experts empowered to take account of their competence. So, education plus work experience. Very simple. Why is it necessary to provide additional criteria for licensing and training? By the way, one such training costs about 500 euros. It is normal that the cost of this training is then embedded in the cost of producing an energy card. Those who produce them advertise: "Hurry! When the amendment of the law is adopted, a contribution to the maintenance of this register will be included in the price." It is said that she will be irritated by the amendment of this law. That's a fact. And all we are talking about is that we are aware that we have a problem because we need to have these energy cards by 2018 or 2020. And since this is a relatively short period in terms of the scope of this business, it is right to allow all those who are qualified to do this work and, on the other hand, to make this process as simple as possible and not to impose some great science. This is all we propose with these amendments to this and the next article, because the situation is similar in licensing those who can review heating and climate systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u262	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u263	Thank you. I guess I was misunderstood. Of course, the established system of energy cards is not included in this Directive, but a functioning system of energy cards must be in place if we are to run for certain funds of the European Investment Funds. This will soon prove to be true in the future. However, this is not recorded in the directive. That's right. Maybe I was misunderstood. This dictatorship was not born in our ministry, but we have ordered many different professional and legal opinions. Now I would read one of them because the Slovenian public deserves to know exactly what that means. "The second point of Article 12 of the Directive states that an energy card means a certificate recognised by a Member State or by a legal person designated by that Member State and indicating the energy efficiency of the building or building unit. Therefore, since it is a document to which a Member State or an authorised institution is required by the State, an energy card cannot have the nature of a private document that could be issued by anyone in any form and content. Moreover, it is only for a public charter in law that is presumed to be true, as it confirms or provides for, and is also referred to in the first paragraph of Article 169 of the Law on Legal Procedure." I don't think I need to read anything else. This went through the government's work of law and through other legal departments when we brought them together. But we also made one big move on the board. I've never denied it, but we can't get past what all the legal and professional opinions we've gained are confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u264	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Blackbell wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u265	Yes, they do, Sir Secretary of State, that's both possible. It may be that this document is issued by someone who is registered in a public register without any other formality, or that it is issued by someone who needs to be given an extra decision. This is based on this opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u266	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 332 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he wants a Black Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u267	This is about expanding the range of those facilities for which there is no need to produce an energy card. It was said on the Committee that this article is in line with our formal regulation and that, as a result, some facilities for which the energy card is not required have been omitted, since certain typologies of buildings produced by the Directive do not know our legal order. However, we propose that it is no harm to write some objects too, because we are otherwise afraid that the production of energy cards will also be required for those facilities for which the Directive does not bring these requirements. We therefore propose to add to this set of facilities for which energy cards do not need to be produced non-residential agricultural buildings with low energy consumption; non-residential agricultural buildings used in the sector covered by the state sector energy efficiency agreement; housing buildings intended for shorter use are said to be 4 months per year – weekends – where energy consumption is expected to be less than 25 % of the total consumption and self-contained buildings less than 50 square metres, which I think is already covered in this article. We only propose that the text of the Directive be copied.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u268	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 335 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 336 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. In the debate I am putting Article 337 and Article 344 and Article 344 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to these articles, which are substantively linked. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 339 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u269	Thank you. You could have checked in with the previous articles. Just look at what we've done with the Energy Act. In a little while, it will have to be all those who will be involved in air-conditioning inspections at any time, doctors of some technical knowledge. I'll read what it says in the existing bill. "The licence of an independent expert in the review of climate systems may be obtained by an individual who fulfils the following conditions: has at least a high level of professional education or education under the study programme of the first stage of the field of study, which falls within the field of technology, in accordance with the rules of higher education; has at least two years of relevant work experience, has received an education from the previous indent in the field of climate systems; has successfully completed training under the programme of training for independent experts in the field of air-conditioning inspection in the last five years since the submission of the licence requirement." In short, I do not list at all what experts need to produce energy cards or to review upgrade systems. Only in the field of air-conditioning inspections, which, at least during the summer, encounters large Slovenian households – I already think that at least outside Ljubljana, at least if I conclude on our territory – we will make experts for everyone, and eventually we will get experts from the theory, which will have little in common with practice, because the theory will fill them so much that they will not even be able to deal with practice. From a normal inspection of the air conditioner we have made some opaque system where at least young people will probably not decide on a fairly profitable business because they will have to have at least a high professional education, two years of work experience and so on. We may wonder who will decide to review the climate systems. Probably fewer people, which means that those who will have this license will charge their services even more expensive than they are charging now. We're against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Let me say that we have made the Committee a softer option also in Article 339, which speaks of the licenses of an independent expert. The government has come to the National Assembly with the proposal that it should have an expert in the production of energy cards, in the review of climate systems or in the review of heating systems for at least five years of work experience. We on the parent board have reduced this to two years of work experience, five years of work experience is needed for example for a management post for the director of a public institution, for the director of a company and so on. And he'd be very tough on energy card manufacturers if they asked for five years of experience, especially a license and so on. By reducing our work experience to two years in these three areas, we have extended the possibility of obtaining licences and opportunities for younger experts to be included in this area, which is also an opportunity for new jobs. So we have made the whole field of energy cards easier on the committee as well. Of course, there are still many open questions, as I said before. Speaking of energy cards, I must also say that if you do not have a licence by a certain year, as stated in Article 540 of the Law, we have reduced by almost 50%. We did not want sanctions to be as rigorous as they were originally set out in a bill drafted by the Government, but we reduced it by almost 50% in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u272	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tinker Bell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u273	I must say, I am surprised that the minister, who is supposed to be one of the liberal parties, at least as he has already announced to the Interpolation its leader in the National Assembly, supports such provisions. It supports the provisions on licenses of independent experts, it refers to licensing, regulation, additional training of those who have gone through a multi-year study process and obtained not only engineering but even doctoral education. Because under these provisions he will have to go through training, which is often managed by people who are less qualified than those who attend these trainings. At least in practice it is less because they are loaded with some theoretical knowledge that has no application value. It is said that these people who are experts and practitioners will have to attend compulsory training both for energy cards and for air-conditioning systems checks and for heating systems checks in order to be able to get a stamp so that they can do so. That's what this article is talking about. And in connection with the previous debate we have had, we want this to be resolved because it is unnecessary. As this procedure does not completely improve the provision of these activities or services, it irritates them, complicates them and restricts competition. If this were to come, do not blame me, my fellow Members, on the part of the Social Democrats or any other political party, we would understand that. But this comes from a party that is declared liberal and whose minister, Mr Virant, we have heard today talk about deregulation, debarcation, simplifications and so on. This is all speaking to the public without any application effects where they need to be accepted. Because in law these things are regulated. In marriage, not in words. And today, one of the laws before us, where those words, which we listened to a few hours ago, should have been applied. They should be used here. In this marriage. Why? In order to respect the directives that we have to respect on the one hand and to provide users and people with as friendly and as affordable services as possible. And we don't do this with the regulation you're coming in with. Part of the effort was successful, but unfortunately a small part. For this second part, which would significantly relieve these procedures, it has allowed for greater competition and has also enabled a greater possibility of fully implementing the provisions of this Directive by 2018 and 2020, and there is no such hearing. You say in this article that we have licences for the production of energy cards, people who are highly skilled, who have adequate work experience and who are still training or simplified – an additional course. Then we have licenses for air-conditioning system inspections, where there is something similar, as well as for the licenses of experts for the inspection of heating systems. And to all these, the Ministry which is responsible for energy based on these courses shall issue a licence. Registers are kept, and each one of them has to take a repeat course. I said earlier that it costs one such exchange of EUR 500 for energy cards, which is then incorporated into the price of these services. And that's not what the directive's talking about. The Directive refers to the need for these systems to be effectively reviewed. However, those who review and control them must be adequately monitored. There's got to be some kind of control over this. The same applies to the production of these energy cards. Even more so is the directive on where automated processes are concerned, since the frequency of these checks is as low as necessary. Instead of following and actually doing what's necessary, there's an upgrade. We propose that this method be changed so that all those who meet these conditions, who have the right education and who have the right experience, are notified to the Ministry, the Minister issues a list of those persons who can do so, and that is all. We don't need anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u274	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u275	Thank you. The Directive speaks mainly of those systems and air-conditioning installations which have a power of more than 12 kilowatts. I can't imagine a housing facility that would have that much connecting power to the climate system. So we're talking about systems like this. I'm pretty sure we can't reduce the criteria. This has been done in many areas in Slovenia. This will certainly bring worse results in the long term, and this article is in fact fully transposed and is in line with a directive that states that everyone with basic education does not yet have all the skills to review one such air-conditioning system or a system over 12 kilowatts of connecting power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u276	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The debate on Article 344 has already been held, so I am putting Article 345 into discussion and the SDS Group's amendment. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. In the debate, I am putting forward Article 391 and the SDS Group's amendment under point 1 and under point 2 as well as the SDS Group's amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the sixth indent, we propose an extension of the time limit within which the National Assembly must decide. The law says he has to make a decision within 30 days. We propose that this deadline be extended to three months. Thus, we can avoid some extraordinary sessions that may take place if the National Assembly is not convened during this interim period, we may also come in between state-level holiday or similar matters, so we propose that this period be extended from 30 days to three months and that this matter is regulated at that time, because we think that there is no need for a 30-day period. We also propose that in paragraph 8, the word "six" should be changed to the word "five". This is a law on public institutions and agencies and we do not see any need to make any special arrangements for a public agency in this case if all other similar institutions in Slovenia are subject to a five-year appointment period. I propose that these two amendments, which are about to improve this law, be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u278	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 395 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 428 and 429 and the SDS Group's amendment to these articles, which are substantively linked. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u279	Thank you very much. This article was partially amended by the committee, but we expected a substantial amendment of the coalition to be tabled here, but it is not. All other articles referring to the regulatory agency, which are important, are closed and cannot be amended. With these provisions, which are most problematic, the applicant shall exempt the Agency from the system of public agencies. Thus, it excludes the provisions applicable to all public agencies in that country, since those provisions will not apply to that agency. This law introduces completely independent provisions on the functioning of this regulator of a public agency, in a way exempting him from the legal order, and so it will be a sui generis entity which will have extremely high powers and political control because control is transferred to the level of the National Assembly. I don't think we know this case anywhere in Europe. He's not here. Other than that, it's a government or a competent ministry. What's proposed is bad. That's bad. With the formula to distance this agency from politics, it is placed directly under the political body, which the National Assembly is. This Article refers to the fact that, in some cases, if the Agency raises doubts about the operation of an energy company in accordance with the law, it does not need to be specifically justified. As stated in this article, there are sufficient arguments in a few indents on one sheet of paper, and on the basis of a decision of a court to issue within 24 hours – earlier it was said that within 12 hours, if the agency remembers at six o'clock in the evening, the second day at six the court must already issue a decision – allowing entry into the premises. The entry and inspection of these premises is possible in exceptional cases even without the presence of witnesses, and anything can be examined. From premises, telephones, electronic documentation, to committees databases or business relations. Everything can be examined. Everything. You can get into the intestines. In our view, this article is inadequate. In the second reading, when we have considered this law on the Committee, we have proposed that it should be deleted, but now we propose that these provisions, which in our view are also unconstitutional, be replaced by appropriate provisions that still allow adequate control for the Agency, but which do not adversely affect the rights of those who are supervised.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u280	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u281	Thank you. You've challenged me a little, and I have to take this subject as well. It is true that this law exempts the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia from the General Law on Public Agencies. As an independent regulatory body, the Agency must become independent and sovereign, assess and regulate the market of all energy, i.e. electricity, natural gas and other energy, heat and cold, etc. European directives have continuously imposed additional and additional tasks – directly, through regulations or through directives – on national regulators over the past few years, and if we want a good and efficient energy market, consumer protection and competitiveness to avoid different oligopols or monopolies, this is the only recipe. There are many practices in Europe where the agency is subordinated to the National Assembly. We believe that this is more independent than it does, but God forbid that governments change every year, and the agency then falls under another government every time, which places a new director and then has a footnote over the agency. We have chosen a 6-year term as a medium and the same applies to the other agencies we have in Slovenia – the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Telecommunications Agency – and this is not a unique one. We already have quite a few agencies that are excluded from nature that are regulatory. The European Directive ranges from five to seven years. It could be five, it could be seven, if there were five, it would be a question of why there are six, if there were seven, why there are no six, and so on. We followed the most common practice and decided on a medium, i.e. a six-year term. We believe that this is entirely justified. However, as far as this article is concerned, it is a complete copy of the Criminal Procedure Act. So if you think this is unconstitutional, this will be decided by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. I am to some extent pleased that the article has been corrected, but I propose that you also support our amendment, which further improves and avoids problems with this matter in some sense, because the agency is not empowered to prosecute to the extent that all other institutions in this country have, therefore it is difficult to accept the fact that in this law it essentially takes the same powers as the Penal Code gives to the police or to any other authorities. However, I propose that we may improve this article until the third reading and that you accept our amendment, which improves this matter, even in the light of all the opinions expressed on the Committee by the Legislative and Legal Service. It is true that you have deleted an unconstitutional provision where even against the will and without witnesses was allowed for the Agency to review individual premises and individual elements. As this is deleted, I think the law is so much improved, but there are still a lot of things that allow much too much chance of complications in this process. I therefore propose that you accept this amendment, which has been tabled by our side, which does not leave such an open space for the Agency. In the event of complications and counter-claims, there could be large claims for compensation from the opposite party. I therefore propose to the coalition and to all who will vote in favour of the amendment, leaving the matter open until the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u284	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Blackbell has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u285	What does this article and the law have to do with the CAP or with criminal proceedings? This is not about criminal proceedings, but about the regulator's procedures and you cannot draw from criminal proceedings certain provisions that have nothing to do with it. In these cases, the agency is suspected of not doing something in accordance with the laws. The paragraph says: 'The Court shall issue a decision', it shall be said of this review of everything – electronic carriers, telephones, communications, devices and everything else, 'at the request of the Agency, if there is a reasonable suspicion that the controlling party has violated or violated the rules and is likely to find evidence relevant to the control procedure or criminal proceedings in the examination of premises or things in it.' No criminal or pre-trial proceedings, no crime, no suspicion of illegality. There's an official at the agency's conclusion that something's wrong. Under the assumption of this political collapse, which takes place not only in the banking area but also in the energy field, the person who will have control of the agency will have an insight into the entire energy scheme. And that's past the National Assembly, because it's just formal surveillance. If this will have competition, which has written some of the articles of this law, of course she will have everything she wants on her palm. On behalf of any supervision by this law and such provisions, you allow distortion of competition in the energy market.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u286	Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 474 and paragraph 1 of the SDS Group's amendment and paragraph 2 of the amendment of the coalition's sent groups. Anybody want to talk? There are many of you, so I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u287	Article 474 provides for free service on land, state and municipal sites where energy facilities will be held. The amendment proposed by the colleagues refers to the deletion of this free service. Why is this important? Most likely, an extremely well-known Southern Stream project is widely known to the general public, in which there has been a lot of talk in the last period. The director of Gazprom is coming to Slovenia and is meeting with the Prime Minister. This project is probably well known in Slovenia. The South Stream is expected to be more than 2,000 kilometres long and in Slovenia alone the pipeline is expected to be 266 kilometres long, and two compressor stations are expected to be built. In Slovenia, this project is estimated at around EUR billion, and according to some data Gazprom for gas transit through the South Stream is expected to earn about EUR 100 million per year. Why am I telling you these things? Because it seems unacceptable to me that the law contains a free service for, say, South Stream, where the land, municipal and state land that this South Stream is supposed to be going through would not receive a fully paid service. And this is even more unacceptable given the amounts that will revolve around the transit of this gas across Slovenia. Perhaps we are even more sensitive to these things because, according to some plans, an important part of the South Stream is also going through my local congregation, and I find it truly incredible that from this great project, which will turn billions and millions, some local community such as the congregation would have nothing, not even a small amount for the service of the land under which this South Stream will flow. Therefore, I find the amendment of my colleagues to be quite meaningful, as it only speaks of this freeness of speech being deleted from Article 474. I believe that this amendment should be supported. If ever, in these difficult times it may be wise to get some euro more than the wealthy and well - standing Russian companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u289	In these crisis economic situations, we have heard about the lack of resources for different needs and savings in different areas. Here, where substantial resources could be obtained in the state budget, this is not the case. I am particularly surprised that this proposal comes from the Ministry, which is also responsible for roads, where it is necessary to pay for the service of the motorway network. It is true that this was not legal until 2012, but it is legal. And this is a significant revenue from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and it is true that this is the case. DARS must pay a service for the entire network of Slovenian motorways, which runs through land owned by the Republic of Slovenia. And so it should be in the field of energy. There is no reason for these two areas of infrastructure to be regulated and enacted in two completely different ways. We therefore propose that the service and payment for it be arranged in the exact same way as the second part of the infrastructure, i.e. for Slovenian roads or motorways.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u290	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u291	It is also important to me that this difference, which is now described by counterpart Cernač, is that we demand these payments from domestic companies, while we would have forgiven or overlooked the payment to foreigners. In particular, I can say that we will need more than €60 million over the next ten or fifteen years for my home congregation, so any euro in this title would be fine. I hope that the coalition Members will also overlook this. I'm sure at this point we don't lose anything if the word "free" is deleted. The contractor will still be able to negotiate for the price and keep it to a minimum. However, if we write in the law that this service must be free of charge on state and municipal land, then we have really put a bullet in our knees.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u292	Thank you. He wants to discuss you more, so I invite you to apply for a debate. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u293	I'm joining the preliminary debate. It is also unreasonable from the context of the real estate tax law to distinguish between local communities, state land, coastal land and private land. At the property tax, everyone's taxed. In this Energy Law, we make some exceptions that go primarily to the detriment of local communities and, last but not least, to the state. There is no clear explanation as to why there is an exception in this work, but we do not make exceptions to coastal lands, which are water lands and are also state land. I would have understood that in some way he would have forgiven all state land. Here, however, a mix is made between individual real estates and we do not know what the reason is, except that colleagues have already mentioned that they are trying to give someone an easy way to carry out a project, in which case to the detriment of local communities and the state. I don't know how Members can support such a dictatorship. I think the law is meant to regulate some things for the same purpose. I think that we are all in the same position in this country after the end, and you have been following this regulation all the time in the real estate tax law. In the Energy Law, we make an exception that no one can explain and explain. Therefore, I propose that you support our amendment, which equates all lands, so that the law will be more consistent and even more adjusted to all users.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u295	Your Honor! I also felt that the service must be paid off. If we put ourselves on the side of landowners, this article is discriminatory and is actually unfair when we compare landowners. If a country builds a type of public infrastructure, the service will be paid off if it builds another type of state infrastructure, but it will be unpaid. We are therefore making a distinction here between types of state infrastructure. This is unfair and unfair to landowners. In fact, all landowners should be in the same position, not separated by the payment of services according to the type of State infrastructure. For me, all state infrastructure has the same status and the same meaning, so landowners should also be treated equally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u296	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u297	Today we also discussed municipalities and the funding system of municipalities in the interpretation of the hour and hour. You know that municipalities have very limited resources or their own ways of collecting revenue. The property tax will be one of the resources that the congregation will be able to use. Land - management is also one way, since the congregation can obtain certain funds by purchasing land, changing its destination, and then selling it. Some people are very good at this. Last but not least, some municipalities also have such and different companies that also generate revenue for the congregations. Today, when we talk about this Article 474, we are also talking in some way about additional options for municipal revenue. We are not threatening anything by deleting the dictatorship that this service must be free of charge, but we are simply giving the municipalities the basis and the opportunity to generate any income from this title. If these services are slightly less settled, the income will be lower if they are slightly better and so much higher. However, as parliamentarians, we should not allow opportunities such as the South Stream to pass through Slovenian municipalities without at least earning the euro.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u298	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u299	Thank you. A brief explanation regarding free service. It's like this already. In 2010, EZ-D introduced this, and the EZ-E retained it. We've given a remuneration service to all the water and coastal lands, and that's enough, because it's just going to be an extra burden. If you want us to have a payout here, that means a direct hit on the population, on the stand. This is not what we want because the price of using the pipeline, and especially the electricity network, will increase. We can't afford it in these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u300	Thank you. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u301	Even if it is now, it's nothing. That is why we are now changing this Energy Act so that certain things can also be changed and we have a unique opportunity to change this thing. You said this would mean an extra burden on citizens through checkpoints and so on. But if we don't, that same story could be from the other side. Some municipalities, which will lack funds for various investments, will now be able to take advantage of the possibility of increasing the property tax by 2.5 times, which will also strike citizens or citizens in one way or another. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't let the diction "free" out here, because we're going to do a lot of good for the congregations. Nevertheless, the investor could still agree with the congregations at a relatively low price. But we can't take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u302	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Time's up. Excuse me? Is there another second? [[adverts from benches]] It's no big deal if it's another second. 0.00 you have at your disposal, so it is not possible because you are in the red field. Anybody else want to discuss this? Procedurally, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u303	Thank you very much. President, I must remind you that after an unnecessary Member you have taken the opportunity to discuss. He had some more time. After all, it is a very limited time — fifteen seconds — available to him to complete the thought. He just wanted to close his mind on what the Secretary of State said. The statement that companies will pay with service and that prices will increase for citizens is unacceptable and demagogic. The whole discussion was about how competitiveness is being introduced, ensuring that companies are competitive and prices are lower. Businesses must also be forced to operate better and these profits that flow into wrong accounts are not exaggerated. So there is no argument that this amendment would not be approved. However, it would be right for the President to give a Member who had time to say so, but you did not do so, so I expect you not to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u304	Thank you. Mr Černač, let me explain to you that if there is no time available, it is impossible to give a word. When a Member has a word and time runs out, the computer does not turn it off immediately, but allows it to complete the thought. However, if it does not discuss and the time is spent, it is not possible to allocate the possibility of discussion. So I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else want to talk? Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u305	Mr President, I have a procedural proposal. This law has three hundred and forty pages, five hundred and fifty articles and regulates a very important field of energy. I am sure, but I do not wish to be offended that not even ten Members have read this law, because it has been impossible to read it since its creation until today, after the marathon session we had. If we look at the end of the law, we are, in fact, revoking about five or ten regulations and regulations that are related to the rules in force so far. Mr President, we are a severely insurmountable Parliament. Members are tired, do not know what we are talking about at all, and it is right to move this topic to a normal time in the second reading and to deal seriously with it, as this is a significant change in the energy market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u306	Thanks, mag. Vogrin for your procedural proposal, which I'm afraid I can't follow. By the end of the second reading, we have three more articles, and the debate is under way, so I cannot take this proposal into account. I think it's a process someone else wanted a word. [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u307	There is nothing wrong with adding arguments in pieces, but I have already said in the introduction that around EUR 100 million will be converted in the transit of this gas. That's a huge number. In doing so, it is necessary to know that the municipalities today have to pay the country very different taxes and obligations and that no one excuses them for not having to do so. Once again, I really do not see any argument at all to do this in this law, and I very much want the amendment to this 474th article to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u308	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Happy Meh, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u309	I would like to tell you that there have been a lot of debates and a lot of energy on this Energy Act. The chairman of the committee, Sam Bevk, has already said that we sat for hours and hours and talked. There were extremely many meetings with experts and with the Secretary of State. We could have had a very big discussion. That's why I find it inappropriate that those of you who haven't cooperated today say we're not familiar. Those of us who were interested, we cooperated from beginning to end and we received answers all the time, we debated things among ourselves, and we are here today to try to adopt this law. Among other things, because the European Directive requires us to adopt it or to adopt European legislation into our legal order. We should have done this before, and they've done a lot of work to make a big enough order here. Let me remind you that we had a public hearing and a public debate in the National Assembly. Much work has been done, and I think it is right to say that we have talked as much as we actually wanted and were able to talk about it. And there's something else that I think is important. Energy is an area that is extremely interesting and can also be extremely responsible. From all sides came individual proposals, and among all these proposals it was then necessary to adopt what today represents in the second reading the Energy Act with all amendments. I am sure that, at this moment, this is an optimal proposal, which could be further improved throughout the debate, but we do not have so much time to discuss any matter, because it is still necessary to discuss it with those responsible for the energy supply of Slovenia, whatever this energy supply means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I am opening an application for discussion with the amendments tabled in Article 474. The first one has the word, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. I joined this debate because, despite knowing what investments will be made in the project that will take place across our territory, we will give it to someone for free, even though our country is in such a bad state. We're giving it away to someone for free to serve on it. I'm afraid it's all kind of pre-arranged to support it for someone else because we got something else from someone else. If that's true, tell us what we got to give someone something for free. Maybe Ivan Ogrin's right. Maybe we're really tired now that we're sharing. On the one hand, we hear how hard we're going, and now we'd be just as generous. I don't know if you can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u313	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would just like to stress once again that we have really had a lot of discussions on this law at first reading. Today's the second time. As Mr Srečko Meh has already said, we have also had a public presentation of opinions in this National Assembly. There was a real possibility that we would become acquainted with the law. I don't think there are any more problems from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u315	Many times I agree with my colleague, Vogrin, but this time I do not agree, because I think that the debate around Article 474 is quite concrete. Nobody wanders into epic breadths, but we all stick to the content. I think we know this content quite well. I'd like to go back to the amendment again. Gazprom, the company which is basically responsible for this South Stream investment, which will also go through Slovenia, is a huge company. So big a company that their CEO has a very special status. When he visits Slovenia, the Slovenian President accepts him with the same honors as all other government presidents. But even though this company is so strong and so large, we must not allow any special relief circumstances or exemption from any payment in Slovenian legislation. That is why I will once again, and today indeed for the last time, say that I would like the amendment to Article 474 to be adopted and would delete the word 'compulsory free'.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendments tabled under Article 474? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 490 and to the debate on the proposed amendment of the coalition to this Article. Anybody want to talk? If not, we move on to the next amendment. I am putting the proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 521 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u317	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Since this amendment is linked to Article 249, they are also talking about investments, and since this is the last amendment that we are discussing today, I would like to say that Slovenia has an exemplary concept of energy use and electricity production. We produce about one third of our energy from renewable energy sources, i.e. hydropower plants, a third from thermal power plants and a third from the Krško nuclear power plant. However, we have another power plant, which one of the energy experts said was our largest power plant, the "power efficient power plant", where we still have many opportunities, including to draw on European funds to build energy efficient buildings. I would like to say that energy is one of the few areas that can enable the further economic development of our country. At present, our only major potential investment resources are the resources that we will be able to obtain from the European funds for energy and other infrastructure projects. Here are the European Investment Bank loans and, of course, the investment potential that the Slovenian energy economy still has. That is why I see the start of the Slovenian economy in the field of investment in energy infrastructure facilities and other infrastructure projects such as railway infrastructure projects, road infrastructure and so on. This could be the turning point for the recovery of the Slovenian economy, for the growth of gross domestic product and finally for the exit from the financial, economic and social crisis, as well as for the resolution of the banking system that we have been dealing with in recent days. As I said at first reading, we will be able to do so on our own land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment tabled under Article 521? If not, I shall conclude the debate on the amendment tabled by Article 521. We are moving on to Article 540, which has two amendments – the first amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups and the second amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? If no one else wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on the amendments tabled. The amendments will be decided 30 minutes after the end of the sixth item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor here to the representative of the government present, Master Bojan Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u319	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The main objective of this proposal is to transpose Directive 2009/5/EC into the Slovenian legal order. This Directive contains guidelines for the categorisation of solutions to driving times, breaks and rests of professional drivers and tachographs — Regulations 561/2006EC and 3821/85/EEC — in view of the gravity of the infringement for the purpose of uniting infringement systems within the European Union, which will contribute to greater road safety and fairer competition between companies. Infringements must also be formulated on the basis of the categorisation provided for in the Directive in order to enable their notification of the national electronic register of road hauliers established under Regulation EC No. 1071/2009 laying down common rules on the conditions for carrying out the activities of a road operator linked to the common European register. In addition, the proposal for a law also more precisely regulates the keeping of driver's working hours, complements the way in which approvals are withdrawn for tachograph workshops, complements the system of sanctions for tachograph workshops and confers jurisdiction on the customs service of the Republic of Slovenia to exercise control under this law. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, amendments were tabled which regulate their comments in the field of tachograph workshops and transitional provisions and take part in taking into account comments on the area of infringement. In addition to the reference to the EU Regulation, a description of the infringement is also included, but there are no considerations as to how the fines are signed, since the categorisation of the infringements according to their weight is necessary in order to transpose Directive 2009/5/EC into the Slovenian legal order and that their communication in the register of road hauliers is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u320	Thank you very much, mag. Grandmother. We are moving on to a presentation of the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, which considered the draft law as a working body of the mother. I give my word to the president, Mr. Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u321	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 12th meeting, on 4 December, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Pensioners to Articles 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23 and 24; for the new Articles 24a, 24.b, 24.c and 24.c. and to the heading "Final provision". In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, Mag. Bojan Babič pointed out that the main objective of the proposal was to amend the system of fines which could otherwise have been made within a range, but on the basis of the practical experience of the supervisory authorities, it was concluded that the system of criminal sanctions should be improved in accordance with the guidelines set out in Directive 2009/5/EC. These guidelines, however, provide a basis for fines for a particular type of offence in the field of compulsory rest and rest of professional drivers, thereby effectively sanctioning the offences according to their weight. The Secretary of State has further pointed out that, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the power to exercise control under this Act is also conferred on the customs service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhartinger, stressed that they had given warnings of a legal and legal and technical nature in their written opinion in accordance with their competence, as well as some comments, and pointed out that a large part of their comments were taken into account in the amendments to the coalition. The Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supports the proposal of the law, with the Commission pointing out that employers often force professional drivers to violate the rules on working time and compulsory rest, often forcing drivers to pay fines themselves for offences and infringements that ultimately lead to less road safety. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u322	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u323	Good-bye! The position of the Social Democrats Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport is that we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Equipment of Mobile Workers and everything else in the proposal. In the proposed law, the main objective is to transpose the Directive of the European Community into the Slovenian legal order. This Directive contains guidelines for the categorisation of infringements of the rules on driving times, breaks and rests of professional drivers and tachographs, which are regulated by the European Community regulation in view of the seriousness and weight of the purpose of greater road safety and fairer competition between undertakings. Infringements must also be formulated on the basis of the categorisation provided for in the Directive in order to enable their communication in the national electronic register of road hauliers established under the Regulation of the European Community. In addition, the law further regulates the keeping of the driver's working hours, complements the withdrawal of approvals for tachograph workshops, complements the system of sanctions for tachograph workshops and confers jurisdiction on the customs service of the Republic of Slovenia to exercise control under this law. Since the Directive of the European Community is primarily being transposed into Slovenian legislation and thus minor substantive corrections, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u324	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u325	Have a nice hello again! The Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport provides a new system of criminal sanctions for offences in the field of compulsory rest and rest of professional drivers. On the basis of the practical experience of the supervisory authorities, the Government has decided to transpose into its legal order the guidelines of the European Directive which provide that infringements must be categorised according to the seriousness of the infringement and the possible consequences for road safety. Thus, the novel in a more transparent and fair manner regulates the system of fines for these offences and introduces a new supervisory authority. The Customs Service of the Republic of Slovenia has a new mandate to exercise control in this area, thus giving it full control of the territory. It is coordinated with key entities – the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce. The new law is also supported by the Commission of the State Council. The Novela therefore regulates in a fairer way the system of sanctioning offences in the field of compulsory rest and rest of professional drivers in order to increase road safety, so Members and Members of the National Gazette will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u326	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u327	Thank you for your word, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished present! We have before us a novel of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport, whose main objective is to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European legislation in the field of infringements, driving times, breaks and rest of professional drivers and tachographs. The proposed novel is substantively quite extensive. It contains as many as 40 articles, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, would make it more appropriate for us to adopt a new text of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The changes include almost every article of the basic law. The content of the law therefore relates mainly to changes in the system of fines for infringements resulting from non-compliance with the provisions on compulsory rest of professional drivers or with provisions relating to the adaptation of data in tachographs. These are defined in EU Regulation No. 561/2006 and in the European Agreement on the work of crews of vehicles carrying out international transport, with the short title AETR. The current regime did not contain precise sanctions for the illegal behaviour of workshops that install, activate, check, harmonise and service tachographs. Therefore, the proposed amendments in this regard give rise to certain new developments, such as the suspension of the approval of such a workshop. The amended way in which infringements are committed, provided for in the proposed law, constitutes a significant change, as the new fines for infringements set out in the European Regulation, which is applied directly, will be pronounced in relation to the gravity of the offence and no longer in the range as currently applicable. Such a way of imposing criminal sanctions should be in accordance with the guidelines of the European Directive, which provides for the categorisation of infringements according to the seriousness of the infringement and the possible consequences on road safety. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not oppose the proposed solutions, as we are aware that, with such a large increase in freight traffic as we have seen in recent years, safety must be paramount. The recent tragic accident on the Austrian side of the Karavanka tunnel still reminds us how important it is for road safety to have clear respect for the provisions on compulsory rest of truck drivers. We note, however, that the proposed method of determining fines is highly unlikely to comply with the provisions of the Law on Offences, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. For the bill binds punishment to each period of time that begins, expressed in hours or weeks. This allows for the gradual increase in the amount of fines imposed in relation to the duration of the offence, for which there is no direct legal basis in the Offences Act. In addition, this deviates from the established way of prescribing and imposing fines for offences, as the Act on Offences of the Institute of Continued Offences does not know. Despite some of the concerns I have mentioned, the proposed amendments to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport will not be contested in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u328	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u329	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! The main solutions to the draft law before us take into account the guidelines set out in Directive No. 2009/5/EC relating to the categorisation of infringements of rules in the field of driving time, rest and rest of professional drivers and the use of tachographs. The key objective of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law is to change the concept of fines, following the guidelines for categorisation of infringements of the rules in the field of driving time, rest and rest of professional drivers and tachographs set out in the Directive already mentioned. While current fines are expressed in range, according to the European Union’s transport policy, it is proposed that offences are punishable in relation to serious offences, taking into account the rules laid down in that Directive, that infringements must be categorised according to the seriousness of the infringement and the possible consequences for road safety. This regulation will also have an impact on fairer competition between companies, in our view. In addition to that amendment, the rules governing the keeping of the driver’s working time records are more detailed. A system of criminal sanctions relating to tachograph workshops will also be complemented. In addition to the full withdrawal of the approval for certain cases, it will be possible to withdraw the authorisation temporarily. In addition, criminal sanctions have been added in the form of amounts not contained in the present law for tachograph workshops. An important novelty is the proposal that the customs service of the Republic of Slovenia be given the power to exercise control in this area, thereby gaining full control in the field. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that the proposed amendment of the law has been aligned with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce, which means that the government has listened to these interest groups again. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the growing problem of professional drivers. Many employers force professional drivers to violate the rules on working time and mandatory readings. When caught in this by the police and for a violation, such fines are usually carried by professional drivers themselves. In doing so, we must not ignore the fact that such driving can also lead to less road safety and is often the cause of serious traffic accidents. Since we believe that the bill brings good solutions, we will support it in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u330	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u331	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! The new law before us is intended primarily for changes in the system of fines and the aim is to ensure that fines for offences are made within a range from now on. So as a rule - it's a worse offense, it's a higher fine and vice versa. This type of punishment is also recommended by the guidelines of the European Union, which will be transposed into Slovenian legislation in this way. The changes in the law will also give the possibility for the supervisory authorities to have more room for manoeuvre in controlling tachograph workshops. In addition to the permanent withdrawal of the licence, it will be possible to withdraw the licence for a period of one, two and four months from now until possible irregularities are eliminated. A large number of foreign trucks and combined vehicles drive every day along Slovenian roads and motorways. As many of these vehicles coming from Eastern Europe have already been exposed to the media, they do not, at first glance, meet technical integrity. A similar situation has already proved too often in the case of drivers of these vehicles who do not comply with the rules of safe driving, do not make mandatory stops on the road and thereby endanger themselves and others. In New Slovenia they therefore expect the police and other competent authorities to do their work even more intensively, and on the basis of the amendments to this law, let us hope that it will also be more effective. Christian Democrats will support the proposed changes, because we believe that legislation will complement them more fairly and more effectively. At the same time, Christian Democrats hope that the road will slowly become dominated by the knowledge that we can make drivers of transport safety the most by acting responsibly and driving according to the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The main solutions to this Act take into account the guidelines laid down in Directive No. 2009/5/EC relating to the categorisation of infringements of rules in the field of driving time, rest and rest of professional drivers and tachographs. Slovenia has decided to transpose these guidelines into its legal order and will therefore be the basis for fines for a particular type of offence in the field of compulsory rest and rest of professional drivers. Infringements will be sanctioned according to the severity of the offence. This takes into account the rule set out in the Directive that infringements must be categorised according to the seriousness of the infringement and the possible consequences for road safety. This should also affect fairer competition between companies. In Positive Slovenia, we point out that in practice employers force professional drivers to violate the rules on working time and compulsory rest, and then drivers are often forced to pay their own fines for offences committed. Therefore, greater security is all the more dependent on the decision of professional drivers to choose between safety and fine, all with the aim of making more money for car companies. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will support the bill, even though we are convinced that the change in the level of sanctions does not have a positive impact on the fairer competition of automotive companies on the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u334	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u335	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! We have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The tachographs were originally designed with the idea that the driver was ready to control himself and were therefore not protected from falsified data. There were frauds which made the situation of carriers that respected the rules worse. As a result, a new generation of digital tachographs was introduced on 1 May 2006 to enable a higher level of safety and address these deficiencies. With regard to the introduction of digital tachographs in the Republic of Slovenia, a special Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recorded Equipment in Road Transport was adopted. The main solution presented by the proposed amendment is that the amendment of the law will allow for the transposition of the guidelines laid down in Directive 2009/5/EC to categorise infringements of the rules on driving times, breaks and rest of professional drivers and tachographs. These guidelines provide a basis for fines for each type of offence in the field of compulsory rest and rest of professional drivers. Thus, the offences will in fact be sanctioned according to the gravity of the offence. This also respects the rule laid down in the Directive that infringements must be categorised according to the seriousness of the infringement and the possible consequences for road safety. This will also affect fairer competition between companies. The bill also contains other amendments. Strictly regulates the keeping of the driver's working hours, and criminal sanctions for tachograph workshops are complemented. The current system will be supplemented by the possibility of temporary withdrawal of the approval in addition to the full withdrawal of the approval for certain cases. In addition, criminal sanctions have been added in the form of amounts not contained in the present law for tachograph workshops. On a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, it shall be conferred on the customs service of the Republic of Slovenia to manage the supervision under this Act. As this is about improving the existing legislation on the basis of European comparable arrangements, we will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u336	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place 30 minutes after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on electronic communications by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, here present Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u337	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for allowing me to give you this further explanation today. The proposal for the legal novel under consideration improves the flexibility of the Law on Electronic Communications of 2012 relating to the execution of electronic auctions. The competent Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia makes it possible to choose between different formats of electronic auctions. Which format the agency will choose is a matter of its professional judgment. The current Law on Electronic Communications, which manages the radio spectrum of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of public authority, allows the award of radio frequencies in the framework of a public tender to be used by the public auction institute where the only criterion for selecting the most favourable offer is the price. As part of the preparation of the agency for a single invitation to tender for the award of radio frequencies in bands 800 megahertz, 900 megahertz, 1800 megahertz, 2100 megahertz and 2600 megahertz, it has been shown that the provisions of the current law do not take due account of the specificities of electronic auctions and do not allow the Agency to choose between different formats of electronic auctions. In doing so, I can inform you that the Republic of Slovenia has just received, through the EU pilot system, a so-called pilot letter in which the European Commission asks us why, despite the October 2012 promises, we have yet to present 800 megahertz radio spectrum. In the letter we sent to Brussels, I believe that on 26 October 2012, we promised to complete all the procedures in this regard by June 2014. With regard to this bill's proposal, we have received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which had no comments on this bill. On 10 December, the draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, where, at least in our opinion, it was significantly improved by the addition of a provision, or an additional safeguard, by which the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia supervises the implementation of electronic auctions. We believe that the proposed amendment needs to be accepted so that the Agency can immediately launch a public call for radio frequencies for mobile communications and use the optimal irritation process. The effective allocation of frequencies in line with the actual needs of industry will also meet the conditions for the introduction of modern fourth-generation mobile communications and the launch of a new investment cycle, which is particularly important in these current economic conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u338	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mrs Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u339	Nicely greeted! At its 34th emergency meeting on 10 December this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. At its 74th regular meeting, on 6 December 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications should be considered in accordance with the necessary procedure. The legislative and legal service examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of its technical and legislative aspects and had no comments to it. Within the deadline of business, the amendment was tabled by the SDS Group to Article 1, and a proposal for an amendment to the Committee was also proposed and adopted. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Aluš Pertinac, said that a proposal for a law should be adopted in accordance with the necessary procedure in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. The Roadmap of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia provides for a decision to introduce a single public invitation to tender for the allocation of radio frequencies in bands 800, 900, 1800, 2100 and 2600 megahertz using the public auction institute 13. 12. 2012, which calls for the early implementation of the proposed legislative changes. It explains that the Republic of Slovenia, due to delays in the broadcasting of radio frequencies in the 800 megahertz band, should comply with the requirements of Decision No. 243/2012/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme not later than the end of 2012. We are at risk of European Union procedures, which could also end with a financial penalty for Slovenia. The immediate allocation of radio frequencies is also necessary due to the necessary construction of the 4G network, which will enable the start of a new investment cycle. They also consider that, in preparation for a single invitation to tender for the award of the radio frequencies mentioned above to the Agency, it has been shown that the provisions of the current Law on Electronic Communications do not take due account of the specificity of electronic auctions compared to oral and written auctions. The proposed law therefore eliminates the shortcomings in the work relating to the execution of an electronic auction and allows the Agency to choose between different formats of electronic auctions, including an auction of the CCA type. The debate focused on Article 1 of the proposal for a law defining the way in which the public auction was carried out. It proposed an amendment to Article 45, paragraph 6, of the current law by the SDS Group, under which the auctioneer or the auctioneer with the highest bid or the highest combination of tenders which were successful in accordance with the rules for the execution of the public auction on it, to issue a descriptive decision. It would set out the amount of payment for the efficient use of limited natural goods to be paid in accordance with the rules for the execution of a public auction and the period within which they must pay it. The auctioneer would thus pay the amount to be determined in accordance with the law and would lay down the rule of the first price. The representative of the Ministry explained that the sixth paragraph of the current law, which provided that the auctioneer had succeeded as a compensation for the efficient use of limited natural goods, would in any event pay the amount of the highest bid, made it impossible to carry out the auction of CCA for which it had proved most appropriate in the preparation of the one-year invitation to tender with the Agency. At the same time, the CCA auction uses the second price rule for radio spectrum to achieve the nearest real market price or to fully reflect it. There is a significant reduction in the possibility of tactical and illicit strategic participation of auctioneers, and it is also impossible to preface weaker auctioneers, thus making it easier to pursue the objectives of ensuring competition in the mobile communications market. I've got to let something go. Some of the debate was also held in the second article, which, with the amendment adopted by the Committee, provided for a new protector over the execution of electronic auctions by the competent APEK agency, by establishing the supervisory authority for the execution of auctions by the Court of Auditors. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u340	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. I see two wishes for a debate. I'm opening an application for debate. The first one has the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u341	Thank you for your word. The purpose of this amendment is to re-examine the possibility of deciding on the highest bid, with the following arguments. In particular, we were convinced of this by the very unusual advocacy of the solution when the committee's proposer referred to our neighbour, where they actually used this model, arguing that this model makes it impossible to negotiate and that this is the key reason for its introduction. But in Austria this has obviously happened, and the matter ends at this point in court. It is said that this argument is not sustainable and that in the Slovenian situation, where, as you know, cartel negotiation is taking place everywhere, from the builders forward, probably the model of the first offer, is said to be the highest bid, only more transparent and therefore better. The second point is that the model t.i. Other offers – so the second highest paid by the highest, regardless of the difference between these two offers – still pay lower – mean some kind of gambling that pays off in some countries, but not in all. And if there is any negotiation, then the question is what does that mean in practice? It could also mean the end of the day that the state would thus give up something that is the income of the budget. In a situation where taxation is extremely high, one such revenue would be in the budget, which is relatively large – it is about the allocation of frequencies for something that the future of GSM systems – certainly is very welcome in as much as possible. All these are the reasons why we should once again offer this amendment in consideration and propose that it should also be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u343	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Whenever the word is applied to frequencies where the business interest is on the one hand and the interest of the one that protects frequencies as a well-defined scale, the debate is very lively and very boisterous. However, I must return your attention one year ago when we adopted the basic, completely renewed Law on Electronic Communications, which had 258 articles in the National Assembly. At that time, we spent a total of 69 minutes on our home work body to deal with the new law, namely, 258 articles, and a little less than 80 amendments. Now we've spent more time on four articles. Why am I talking about this? I am speaking because there has been doubts that the chosen model of irritation, which is only one of the possible models, allows for cartel negotiation, as my colleague Grims said. But I don't know a situation or a model that might not be abused under some circumstances. As a result, in the Group of Social Democrats, together with the drafters of the law, we have drafted an amendment imposing on the Court of Auditors the supervision of an agency which is the custodian of frequency auctions. I'm aware that this is a large-scale auction for auctions of five frequency bands. And it must be said that in order to auction this first, 800 megahertz, appropriate regulation and adaptation to European legislation should be adopted by the middle of last year. At the time of the consideration of the law a year ago, then Minister Žiga Turk said that Slovenia is threatening a daily sentence of €13 000 63 if we do not adjust in time. Now it has been said that we have not yet done so, so we have not yet made an auction for this frequency band. What I would like to stress is that by amending the law, we will only adopt a change that allows for different patterns of irritation. In the law of last year, both oral and electronic auctions are defined in Article 45 by not allowing the execution of the combined auction to enable this closed auction system to be awarded to the successful bidder or buyer at the auction, but by payment at the second highest price. And this raised concerns in the opposition and they tabled an amendment of the same type as it had already been at the committee meeting, only that it was brought to Article 2 which was open and they want the electronic auction to be carried out only with the highest offer. This is an additive that reduces the possibility of using different patterns of irritation. The non-admissibility of this amendment also applies to the third paragraph where the draft amendments to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia added a delivery that the Court of Auditors must report its findings to the National Assembly at least once a year. It has provided for the Court of Auditors to keep an eye on the auction, a general provision. The question is whether the auction will be, how many times a year, and whether it will even be that year. I would particularly like to point out that, however, it has also been decided that the frequency space will not be put into use for a longer period of time from now on. Now this period has been set to 15 years, and it will remain so, even though there is a tendency in Europe to extend time, even for more than 20 years. In the European Parliament, they say they are even thinking about extending this period to thirty years. However, I think it is better to stay on the already tested model for 15 years, and at that time it will also prove to be a robust way of auctioning, as called by acquaintances, which is relatively well protected from the dangers of negotiation, because auctioneers do not know each other's offer, proved to be a good one. In the end, however, it must be said that responsibility lies with the Agency. The Agency, which is an independent regulatory authority. I would only warn that last year the Agency received a new name and no longer uses the APEK shortcut as we knew it, but is the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. We will therefore not support the proposed amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u345	Thank you. There'll be no misunderstanding. None of us object to a public tender being made through the CCA system. We're actually here at the same starting points. He's only asking how to determine the outcome. Either follow the first, highest offer or the second. In our judgment, it would be more transparent and probably better in Slovenian situations and in public interest to go first. However, as far as supervision is concerned, the Court of Auditors is obliged to report to the National Assembly in any case, and this is in no way contrary to existing legislation. Why would I be intruding on this sentence, frankly, I find it difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u346	Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u347	The frequency space is a valuable space and indeed the inflow to the budget of this space is an important gain for public finances and should therefore be treated with care. I agree with that. But finding the winner at the auction, so to speak, is connected to the highest bid. The one at the auction wins. And the foundation is the second highest. What he pays is the second highest price. This is, as a rule, determined according to the actual reference value determined by the experts and determined in advance and below this price. So there's no danger in negotiating what you're talking about. On the other hand, we also know those auctions where auctioneers speculate and offer a lower price or even win with a lower market value if I put it that way. It cannot be denied, overlooked or overlooked that in Europe, after 2010, such a closed-type auction marked in this CCA material has been used in favour or on more than one occasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in 30 minutes in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 50th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 21st and 30th minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u349	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Madam President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted first item on the agenda, this is the Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, express its non-trust to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. sixty-six or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted out, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed." Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus before we go to the vote. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? He does. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. An application shall be made on behalf of the groups of Members. The first one has the word mag. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u350	Your Honor! On behalf of the SDS Group, let me stress that we will certainly vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister, as the debate has shown that all points of interpretation are justified and no one has even tried to challenge them too much. I'll take my turn. When we talked about the issue of the deleted Law, it turned out that some financial items were not presented at all and were not covered by the law and many of them were underestimated. The case of those who are not covered by the law is still a real cost, the costs of judicial proceedings, including the payment of court fees, since this law exempts all those who are covered by the law. They will pass all these costs on the shoulders of taxpayers and, given the expected number of lawsuits, it is about 10,000 lawsuits, and according to the price normally paid by citizens and citizens for actions of similar value, it is possible to speak here from 20m to 30m euros. All other items are, of course, underestimated, which was clearly stated in the debate itself. When it comes to the payment of airline tickets, it is clear to everyone that the line of Adrie Airways, which is paid in the economic class, is about 600 euros, and the minister paid 150 euros, something that is the question of another commission, to which you like to refer. No one could deny it either. When it comes to the issue of signed harmful trade union contracts, no one has disputed that the minister has chosen the most expensive possible debt, this is the debt of those concerned, since he has signed a contract with which he has also committed himself to the payment of late interest at this time of about 8.5 %, and that it would be significantly more favourable for taxpayers if the donkeys had rented a loan or simply sold some government bonds – three years now say 3.5 of the required return – and this would still be cheaper for the Slovenian taxpayers than what they have done in the government and what the minister is responsible for. After all, there is a matter of local self-government. A quick proposal to abolish municipalities, which has caused a lot of costs, a lot of excitement to the public and reduced the confidence of the system's institution, you have clearly defined yourself when you have made it very clear that you are still aware that interpretation is justified here. Let me quote two lines from the SD and the Group of Ambassadors Positive Slovenia: "Mr Virant first stumbles, then think about it." and "Mr. Virant opens his mouth too quickly, then think about what he said." Where real costs and negative consequences are involved [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u351	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, he has the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u352	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In an interview with the Minister of Home Affairs, we have seen three main things that may cause more millions of damage to the country, namely that the Minister threatens coherent regional development with his policies; that he newly employs public administration and discriminates against public servants according to their membership in the unions; and that he unfairly regulates the issue of deleted persons. In this extremely long debate, the Minister did not give up his policy at any point, but he insisted stubbornly on his vision throughout the discussion on his policy. Let me touch the first point first. Although he said that the matter was still open with regard to the abolition of municipalities, he made it crystal clear that he did not intend to cancel the project and that he would insist in the future that at least 100 Slovene municipalities should be abolished. In the debate, we have always demonstrated to the Minister that the same financial effects as he proposes by abolishing municipalities can be achieved through joint municipal administrations and that the municipalities remain independent, that we will keep the mayors and the municipal councils and thus retain the current level of local democracy. It is essential that we do not abolish the last institution that is still in charge of coherent regional development in Slovenia today and that the differences in Slovenia are actually diminishing. Nor did he agree with the public administration in a new way to solve problems. It still insists that the public administration can be reduced by about one percent, perhaps a percent and a half a year, although it could be reduced by at least three percent. Nor did he give up the final points when we challenged him to deal unjustly with the issue of the deleted. We also gave him our proposal. The current proposal, presented by the Minister, suggests that those who have deferred longer by regulating the status will also be entitled to greater compensation. None of us said we weren't up for a misdemeanor. None of us said that they objected to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. But we said that these things needed to be arranged in a different way. And the solution that we have offered is for everyone to receive the same compensation, no matter how long they have delayed by regulating the status and not to privilege those who have postponed it until 2010. We will therefore, of course, propose that the Minister of the Interior be dismissed from his city and thus prevent these harmful policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u353	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u354	We will not support this in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Interpellation List. I don't think we've ever had such a good defense against the obvious interpretation of this National Assembly. On the other hand, of course, we have not yet seen such poorly prepared interpretations. During the debate, so many arguments were put on the table against all the concerns expressed that there can be no longer any doubt that this interpretation is unfounded. Above all, there can be no reason to interpret compliance with judicial decisions. There can be no reason to interpret compliance with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. There can be no reason to interpret compliance with the Supreme Court decision. And there can be no reason for interpolation of the mental delinquency when the minister, who is responsible for his department, thinks and wants to make certain improvements in the field of local self-government. We will not support this interpretation in the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u355	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u356	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President, Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party we will support interpolation, which we are also co-proposers. For us, there were key reasons for local self-government and, as has already been said, a lot of thoughtless words and prepared documents have been said in this debate, which have greatly disturbed Slovenia's space. Among other things, the professional public, as the largest experts in the field of local self-government have been very actively involved in the opposition to these proposals that have been presented. In addition to being upset, the associations of the municipalities were often disappointed by the lack of cooperation between the minister and government colleagues on issues that are a fundamental problem for the development of local self-government. The State Council and the non-governmental sector had many discussions on this issue. Therefore, it is not enough to say that these were just thoughts. In view of the way in which the Minister and the Government is working, which is mainly used in key issues, I think it was very right that, first of all, opposition has been raised here and that, at the time of the interpretation, a debate has also developed, which can be a good basis for work in advance. Also in the area of financing local self-government this year, a number of steps have been taken back, where the resort minister should certainly act more intensively, rather than first preparing a proposal that went to public debate in order to give local communities, some with the largest surface area and also the most demographically threatened, a figure of 30%, as was the proposal for a Community Financing Act. Since this procedure has been halted, a significant approximation has been made of this through the Budget Implementation Act, which takes approximately 20% of the funding at the annual level to these municipalities when the amending Law on the implementation of the budget for 2014 and 2015 is implemented. On the one hand, the additional burden of local communities is the real estate tax, and on the other hand such an arrangement, which is now at the property tax, is discriminatory taking away basic powers, through which municipalities also exercise their development function through real estate taxation and policies that can be flexible at this level. Also in the Slovenian People's Party, we object to such arrangements as was the case with the last payments, where legal late interest is paid. Today was misunderstood, and because I did not have time, I take this opportunity to explain that I did not say that the Minister should be imprisoned, but I said that those who spend millions will be closed, but if they are needlessly spending public money in millions of dollars, they should be removed from the spending of this money. That this ambiguity will not remain in the air. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party we will support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u357	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dear Mr Virant, Vice President, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! True, interpellation is a legitimate act of the opposition and we do not have a problem with it. However, we believe that this interpellation was unfounded and did not have the right basis for the Social Democrats to decide to support the interpellation. Mr Virant convinced us with his answers because he had resolved important matters, such as deleted and the matter with the social partners. Secondly, in thinking about local self-government, he reassured us with the answer that he would undertake the reorganisation of local self-government gradually and in cooperation with the expert. Social Democrats are aware that political stability is important, but today we will not vote for Mr Virant because of the political stability of the country, but because of his answers and actions. We therefore support Mr Virant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their own name before the vote? He wants to, so I'm opening an application to explain my own name. Five Members and Members of Parliament have been notified. The first word is Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u360	Your Honor! I will, of course, support the interpolation, as the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats were also among the interpelling proponents. First of all, I will comment briefly on what Mr Ficko said to us about what we said at the New Slovenia Congress on Christian Democracy. I'm glad you're watching our congress. I'm sorry yours wasn't here, so it's only right that you've studied ours a little bit more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u361	Mrs Novak, speak on your own behalf, do not argue with any parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u362	I didn't argue, it was just a comment. I certainly think the interpolation was in place. We have not offended anyone, but we have told the Minister in a dignified manner that we disagree with some of his actions. I think that this extensive debate on municipalities has also been on the table, and I am sure that the Minister will take a lot of this into account in the future. However, our interpretation was justified, and it also proves that some coalition Members were critical of the actions of Minister Virant. We understand, however, that as president of the coalition party, you cannot interpret it and cannot vote for it. We totally understand. So I'm going to support the interpolation. I am sure that the intervention was justified and that it will also produce certain fruits, although we will probably not like the result, because of course we expected you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u364	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues, distinguished ministerial council, esteemed Prime Minister of the Government! Of course I will support the discharge of Minister Gregor Virant. For about an hour, I explained and cited the arguments and reasoned on why the minister had to leave. And there are at least two other reasons why I will vote in favour of interpolation. The Minister has not explained on what legal basis he advocates discrimination against public servants, I am referring mainly to non-member unions. Yesterday, the Prime Minister explained that the state has enough money and that everything is in order. Therefore, there has never actually been a reason to give up the Swiss trade union. We are surprised that the Faculty of Law has not yet responded to the fact that the first doctorate of the Slovenian Faculty of Law is Minister Gregor Virant, who has allowed himself to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The discrimination against non-members of the trade union constitutes a serious violation of the Constitution and thus the depriving of the dignity of public servants who also work in the public interest, in the public sector, for example, in education, but do not feel the need for trade union movement. He violated Article 14 of the Constitution, which states that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material condition, birth, education, social situation or any other personal situation. I vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u366	Good evening, everyone! I will vote against this because it is an attempt to punish the minister, and now listen well because he has reached an agreement with the unions; because he corrects, if he can be said, the injustices that have been erased at the request of the European Court and has found that we have many small municipalities that are not in accordance with the applicable law. Interpellation is, of course, an attempt to alleviate pain because the government is successful. Interpellation is an attempt to break down a coalition that is solid. So from defeat to defeat, good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u368	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will vote in favour of resolution. The perceptions from the interpolation are serious, although some of you wanted to make this something funny and time will show that this interpolation, as well as many of the interpolations that we have proposed in our party, is justified. Interestingly, today ministers are praised by those who have been criticized a while ago, but times are of course changing. In the debate, the Minister answered what we did not ask him, but he did not answer the questions we asked him. For example, we talked about airline tickets. If all is clear and clear, why did he not attach them to his answer and make any other comparisons to illustrate what he was saying here? He also talked about reducing employees. We know that you are committed to a stability programme. The minister speaks, when he responds, about a wider one, about a narrower one, of course, when he can boast that the number of employees in the police has decreased significantly, otherwise he uses other numbers than he ever does. Today, he even fantasised that we would cut employment in the public sector by four to five percent. I have a union record from August, which states that the Minister undertakes that the reorganisation will not result in surpluses of public servants employed in administrative units, for which he is also willing to sign a special agreement with the unions. So wherever he comes, make a promise. Once to the teachers, once to the others, we can expect some more harmful agreement from Minister Virant. That's why I'm going to support interpolation, as I say.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u370	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Before I explain how I will vote today, I would like to resolve another matter. Mr Minister, yesterday, when there were some suspicions that this interpolation could even be successful, because some members of the coalition were also supposed to vote for it, you mentioned in particular Members and Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, you made one statement, which was published practically in all Slovenian media. You said something like this: "If I fall for..."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u371	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u372	In my own name. I speak my own language. That's mine. [[...]] [[Laugh]] You said something like this: "If I fall because of the corruption coalition Jankovic-Janša, then I'll be glad it happened." This, Mr Virant, whether you remain Minister or not, is not up to Jankovic and not Janša. This is decided by the Members of the National Assembly, as this is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the first things I came to this Parliament was that it was the fundamental right of a Member to vote at any moment on his conscience, his conviction and, as at a certain point, he felt that he was right. And no one has the right to influence or even command a Member how he will use his coalition. Now, I wonder if this statement of yours – which is also a type of pressure – means that you believe that a Member of his/her constitutionally guaranteed autonomy in voting can be considered corrupt as well? I sincerely hope that this is not the case and that it was only a mistake or slip in this difficult two-day and turbulent interpretation event. I will not support you today, Mr. Secretary, with my vote. It is true, however, that I will not support the interpretation, especially because of the President of the Government, who in these eight months has done what no one in this Parliament, Slovenia and Europe has done, and in particular I want her never again to be a prisoner of any individual in the future if she considers herself to be such an ethical and moral person.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u373	Thank you very much, Mr Wilphan, for having also given an answer on your own behalf when asked. We're moving to the vote. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I see an interest in explanations of vote, so I'm opening up an application for explanations of vote. If possible, I'd like to ask you to sign up now and we could close the circle as soon as possible. The first one has the words of Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Yesterday, when we wanted the government and the Prime Minister to explain the bank hole, they couldn't be reached. Today, when we deal with this interpolation and now that the explanations of their votes are in particular, the whole government is here. Here you can actually see how the centre of gravity is placed in this coalition. I must say that I will vote in favour of the interpolation and this because Mr Virant, for ethical reasons, has mirrored Mr Stepišnik and, for the same reasons, has protected Mr Omerzel, which means that Mr Virant has put himself on his head twice in a very short period of time, within a few days. I will also support the interpolation because I do not feel constitutionally that we have two types of public servants — one who are members of trade unions and who receive 20% of the higher remuneration or retirement from public funds, and those who are not members of a trade union association. What Minister Virant wrote down in this agreement with the unions is the introduction of a banking union system. Whether Minister Virant is relieved or not, his burdens will remain with him, with this coalition and, of course, with this country. And those who stay in the country will be financially extremely high.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u376	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, as you know, I will support the interpolation. Firstly, yesterday I proved to you that in 2010 on the line from Frankfurt to Ljubljana, which is comparable and costs at least a thousand euros when you flew in the business class, you acted corruptly because you gained greater wealth for yourself and your family. Because of such a thing, people with standards in democracy must step down immediately. That's the first thing. Second point. Mr Minister, you also lied in the National Assembly at the time of the interpretation when you said that we were taking the drafts for interpretation, where you were talking about local self-government. No, you're September of the same year [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u377	In his own name, the minister can't answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u378	You come before the public, you say you will abolish 100 Slovenian municipalities and you will save 100 million euros. [[...]] You have further discriminated against the part of citizens living in rural areas. Third time. Indemnifications are compensations that are across all borders and across all standards of compensation that have ever been applied to all others who have suffered injustice in the field of Slovenia and the former Yugoslavia. You have also acted in a discriminatory manner and caused greater harm to the country of Slovenia. That's why you have to step down immediately. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u379	How will you vote? [[adverts from benches]] Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. You listed so much that I was no longer sure how you would vote. We're moving to the vote. Is there still an interest in explanation of vote? I'm opening an application to explain my voice. The application shall be made. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u380	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll back this interpellation. At the same time, I must express an extraordinary disappointment and explain why. I am disappointed that Mr Virant remains Minister only because he is the party's president. This is extremely harmful for our country. And in this National Assembly, there are parliamentary groups that vote for Virant solely and solely because the President of the Party and that coalition would stand. This is extremely harmful for our citizens and citizens, and I am sure that this is a situation or situation that the National Assembly should not afford. And this is another reason why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are right to have submitted this interpretation together with New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u381	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, was not voted untrustworthy. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda, and I wish the Government a successful work in the future. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're moving to the vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? He won't, so we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Construction of Buildings Act, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 1a of the SLS Group. Does anyone want to explain his voice on behalf of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Jakob the Presect has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u382	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I must say that I regret that the majority of the government, with the exception of Minister Pikal, does not seem necessary to cooperate with others, according to my assessment of the important points. For example, we have the Energy Act, and in this case the Buildings Act, where it is the Government's proposal to postpone the implementation of inspection measures in the event of illegal interventions to space, achieve that, at some point in time, in those facilities where there are envisaged inspection measures, with legislation that will be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u383	I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u384	With the legislation to be submitted to the National Assembly in the spring work, let us resolve and reduce some of the acute problems of the problem in some who have also gone to space for various reasons. [[…]] [[..]] With the amendment to amend the transitional and final provisions of this bill, we want to achieve that the moratorium on the enforcement of inspection measures will apply only to those interventions to the premises already carried out before the law is implemented, not to those operations to the premises which will begin after the law has been implemented. I must say that I spoke yesterday and coordinated the matter with the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, and we have also aligned ourselves with the Ministry in this solution. I claim that this is a positive amendment that will make it impossible for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u385	I'm asking for order in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u386	I can finish, too. I'm sure you've read this amendment. I hope that we will support the amendment because it will achieve that there will be no speculative, rapid interventions in a variety of ways once this law is implemented. Let us adopt a law that will enforce a moratorium on the implementation of those interventions to the premises that have already been carried out, but not to those that would eventually appear in the spring work, for example, before we finally resolve this issue through another legislation. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? I'm opening the application because I can see that there are more wishes to explain the voice. The first is Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm going to be brief so I don't steal the time because it's already late. The Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will support the amendment tabled by the SLS on the basis of the explanation and the debate itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u389	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Ljubica Jelusič has the floor. You don't want to? [[No, no, ……]] On behalf of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u390	In fact, it is a good amendment and we will support this amendment in the Civil Gazette. The moratorium that is being introduced should only apply to the existing situation and cannot apply to the black construction that will continue to take place at this time. Every act of blacksmiths after the entry into force of this law cannot bring about a credit rating and must, in fact, allow an inspection to be carried out. This amendment is a good one, and we will support it in the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We are voting on the amendment tabled for a new 1.a member of the Slovenian People's Party's Party. Voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to the new article 1a of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? I'm guessing there's no wish. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Before making a decision, does anyone want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft energy law under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13 December 2013, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to Article 23. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the 27th Article, where the four amendments are tabled. We first decide on the first amendment to the 27th member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment tabled to Article 27 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the second amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to the third amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 34, which is accompanied by three amendments. We first vote on the first amendment of the SDS Group. Let me remind you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to the 34th Article of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to the third amendment tabled to Article 34, tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 39. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group to Article 40. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to Article 46. Two amendments have been tabled. First, we decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 46 tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 49. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the 50th member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the 76th Member Groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 24. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 78. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 26. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 79 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 25. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 157. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 169. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 194. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to Article 238, to which the two amendments of the SDS Group are tabled. First, we decide on the first amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 238. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 331. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 332. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 335 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 336 and the proposed amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 337. Let me remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 344 of the same proposal. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 344 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the amendment is not adopted and therefore the amendment to Article 344 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to Article 339 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 345 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments tabled to Article 391 of the SDS Group. First, we decide on the first amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 391 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 395 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 428. Let me remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 429 of the same proposal. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 429 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments tabled to Article 474. First, we decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 490. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 521. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 540. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 540. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments tabled. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at one of the following meetings. On the basis of Rule 137(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, all 80 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Holidays of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the following decision shall be taken: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. Anybody want to explain their voice before the vote? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against one. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th paragraph of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications by urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the SDS Group to the second article. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their vote before they decide? He does. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u392	Thank you for your word. We will not support this law in New Slovenia. First, we're protesting an emergency procedure. The proponents explained to us that the subject was so difficult that they had to visit I think that even six countries had to study this system for a long time, so that they could eventually prepare this law, which we now have to adopt in an emergency procedure. I think we are "very respected", because we can study this in a few days, and the next day the law will come into force. We can't agree with this. The law would have been very supportive if the previously unvoted amendment had been adopted, because the proposaler did not convince us that the best price was the second voted price and not the first. This could be the 100 millionth difference in auctions, so if not the best price, but the second best price. The proposal did not convince us that this is really good for the state budget. New Slovenia will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-13-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u393	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear fellow Members and Members, I conclude my 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and welcome you. Good night.
