ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Marija Plevčak, Mr Dragutin Mate, Mr Jožef Kunič and Mrs Janja Klasinc. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the laws on economic societies, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mrs Andrea Kert, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, distinguished President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We joined in the preparation of the novel following a decision of the Constitutional Court, which was issued in May this year, by which only this decided on the compatibility of Articles 10 and 10.b of the Law on companies with the Slovenian Constitution. Following a decision of the Constitutional Court, the registrant authorities and other stakeholders soon pointed out the difficulties in implementing the said Articles, in particular the lack of data records, the need to establish access to existing records, the reliability of the data in the records and so on. They also pointed out ambiguities regarding the conduct of the procedure, the withdrawal of powers or entitlements for the management of business and the withdrawals from the place in the supervisory authorities, the validity of the provisions and others. The novel is intended to overcome these uncertainties and difficulties and to facilitate the registration procedures of companies and entrepreneurs through the appropriate link between registries and record managers and the clarity of the procedures on the one hand. On the other hand, in a more efficient way, limit the establishment of companies and entrepreneurs and the acquisition of a business share by businesses of unfair natural and legal persons. The proposal for a law should therefore re-energize the set of circumstances under which the establishment of a company or an entrepreneur and the acquisition of the status of a member may be limited. In addition to a certain limitation in the case of a criminal conviction, a restriction is also imposed on a person who is on the list of non-proposers of accounts or the list of non-payments or who is more than 25% involved in capital of capital companies which are publicly published on the list of non-proposers of accounts or the list of non-payments. The restriction on the establishment and acquisition of the status of a member in the first case after the new regime lasts for five years from the legal judgment or until the date of deletion from the criminal record if the conviction in the criminal record is deleted before the expiry of five years. Registration authorities and notaries shall be given the opportunity to obtain such information on an official basis. The new arrangements provide for the VEM points to determine automatically the facts related to the outstanding tax liabilities and unscheduled accounts. These restrictions apply to the settlement of obligations, as confirmed by the tax authority. The proposed solutions are linked to the direct electronic data exchange of the Business Register of Slovenia, the Tax Administration and the e-VEM information system, and are also regulated by the exchange of data between the Business Register of Slovenia and the Central Register of intangibleised securities. In order to prevent the abuse of the registration of a business address of one or more companies or undertakings on the title without the authorisation or knowledge of the owner of the facility, the entity shall be required to attach a certified declaration of the owner of the facility allowing the business of the undertaking or of the company at that address to the entity upon registration. The certified declaration will only have to be made if the registration entity does not own the facility itself. Infringement of this provision is also defined as an offence. With the solutions proposed, we would also encourage companies and their responsible persons to provide up-to-date, accurate and true data for the entry into the register, which will truly reflect the last actual situation. After consultation with key stakeholders, Article 10(b) shall be deleted, which shall impose upon the courts the withdrawal of powers or entitlements for the conduct of business or cancellations from the supervisory authorities of companies. We are also in the process of interfering with the Law on the Register of Justice, which is that changes in the law are essential for the content of both laws, both as regards the treatment of matter and the achievement of equal treatment of all economic operators in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. independent entrepreneurs and companies. However, in order to ensure an appropriate transition to the implementation of the proposed amendments, transitional provisions provide for a transitional period which will allow for the establishment of all relevant links between the holders of official records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Pavlič, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Good morning, welcome visitors on the balcony as well. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies – this Act was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs at its 36th emergency meeting, 18. 9. 2013, as the working body of the mother, namely the College of the President of the National Assembly, is at its 63rd meeting, 13. 9. In 2013, it decided that this proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the PS, DL and DeSUS parliamentary groups, namely Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 13 of the bill. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service highlighted the principled observations of a legal system nature and gave some warnings on the approach to the preparation of the law under consideration, which amends and complements certain other laws. In the debate, some discussers supported the proposed solutions, while others expressed concern about the extensive comments made by the Legal and Legal Service and asked the Government's representatives when amendments to the related laws would be submitted, in which case the proposal for a law would interfere. As regards the latter, the State Secretary explained that the package of related laws will be forwarded to the National Assembly in early 2014. In addition, the SLS Group submitted a proposal for an amendment to Article 2 of the Committee, the adoption of which would constitute the maintenance of Article 10b of the Company Act, which regulates the withdrawal of the power or entitlement to manage the business and recall from the seat of a member of the supervisory authority. The amendment's proposer and some members of the committee supported the proposed preservation of Article 10.b as they felt that the provisions of this Article would help to prevent further damage to businesses by those leaders who had already done so in the past. However, the Secretary of State explained that the Government opposes the proposed amendment, as the Constitutional Court's intervention resulted in major difficulties in implementing certain provisions of this law, including the provisions of Article 10.b. The Committee identified and did not adopt the amendment before the proposed amendment was discussed. At the end of the discussion, the Committee identified the amendments tabled by the PS, DL and DeSUS groups, namely Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 13 of the draft law and adopted them. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you for presenting the committee report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to reduce the time needed to register business entities. Recent changes have clearly confirmed the well-known river that the path to hell has been pressed for the best of purposes. With the best of intentions, we have extended the time needed to register a business entity by two to three times, and we must now correct that. Following the decision of the Constitutional Court of May 2013 on the compliance of 10a, 10b and certain other articles of this Act, the registrant authorities, namely the Court of Justice and the IJPES, and other stakeholders, have pointed out difficulties in implementing the provisions in force, namely the lack of data records, incomplete data records and the impracticability of data in the records and certain other uncertainties. This has led to the already mentioned extension of the necessary time for the registration of business entities. The proposal for a law gives rise to a set of circumstances on the basis of which the registration authority may restrict the establishment of a company or an independent entrepreneur and the acquisition of the status of a member. At the same time, registration authorities, notaries and VEM-touchers are allowed by law to obtain data from official records. The amendment of the law is also supported by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, because it is a matter of solutions that go in the direction of promoting registration procedures and, on the other hand, preventing abuses that take place, especially in the form of straw companies, chains and other bad practices that cast a bad light on the economy as a whole. I should also like to mention that the applicant, in explaining the amendment of the law, has also highlighted the principle of the relationship between the implementation of a free economic initiative and the setting up of conditions for the establishment of companies and independent entrepreneurs. For reasons of ensuring higher standards in the economy, which are reflected in the fact that legally convicted persons with tax-related offences cannot, or cannot, establish societies or act as shareholders within a given period of time, it is reasonable and reasonable to maintain such a restriction on the free economic initiative. We will support these changes in the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. What a lovely greeting to all present! Today's amendment to the Company Act, which we are dealing with under urgent procedure, is about certain amendments to that proposal of the Company Act, which was adopted by a large majority in the previous term, and has been tabled by our Group of Members with the first-signed Radovan Žerjav. Let me refresh my memory for a moment. At that time, we proposed a restriction or ban on the possibility of setting up, managing and supervising those persons who, as directors of the company, have made bankruptcy or forcible settlement or prohibition of the chain establishment of undertakings, forcible settlement, unless, of course, they prove in the process that they did not contribute to bankruptcy or other exceptional events, and also the withdrawal of the right to conduct business and to recall from the seat of a member of the supervisory authority to those same persons in all undertakings where they still perform any function of management or supervision. However, such a response was needed in the light of the developments in the Slovenian space, when many individuals in public's eyes deliberately destroyed businesses when new ones were established, by chain transactions they drained their capital from the company to the company and left behind only unpaid claims and also impoverished creditors. In many cases, people with this practice of managing businesses were also supervisors in other companies, without any sense of responsibility, but of course with well-paid meetings and awards. And although perhaps a law in which one of the points was not perfect, as a whole it was a great progress in demanding the moral and criminal responsibility of the management and control staff of these Slovenian companies. The Constitutional Court has indeed repealed some provisions in April this year, but has left this article in law; 10.b an article which allows the court to withdraw the power or entitlement to manage the business — the director’s status, as stated in its own household — and to recall from the seat of a member of the supervisory authority those persons who were directors or supervisors of undertakings who went to bankruptcy or for forced settlement. It clearly states that, in the Constitutional Court’s view, this provision is not excessive, since it is possible for an individual to demonstrate, in a judicial procedure in which all constitutional guarantees of fair procedure and remedies are provided to him, that his conduct did not contribute to or cause insolvency proceedings. Your Honor! All these provisions have been deleted in your novel. You simply deleted the entire 10.b article because no one wanted to try and find a solution to the problems that arise with the records. What remains in this novel is just a bad shell. There is only a ban on the establishment of a company for the lawfully convicted person and those with unlawful obligations towards the State. That's the logical thing to do. But I ask you, a respected coalition, where the added value of this law is. There will still be potential abuses, there will still be chaining companies, prescriptions, bankruptcys, with a view to playing creditors, banks and the like. The fact that there are certain problems with records and data acquisitions and that these provisions are already recorded in other laws is indeed a cheap excuse, which only makes it possible for the Government of this problem to resort to the lowest resistance line. For all these reasons, only a little effort should be made to correct the existing articles. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, despite the fact that the novel contains some other minor corrections, we simply cannot support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected secretary of state with co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed novel has several objectives. First of all, the amendments to the Company Act are related to the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning restrictions on the establishment, management and supervision of companies in cases of insolvency or forced termination. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has decided to narrow down the set of circumstances under which the registration authority may restrict the establishment of a company or independent entrepreneur and the acquisition of the status of a member. Nevertheless, Members and Members of the Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia believe that these restrictions remain within such a framework, so that they can effectively prevent the business of unreality and dishonest and malicious individuals or legal persons. The important news that we welcome in our group is the punishment of an entrepreneur who does not have the permission to use his business address if he is not the owner of the facility. Furthermore, the aim of the novel is to relieve the registrant authorities and to speed up the registration procedures and to remedy any shortcomings that have led to the implementation of certain control procedures in practice not being feasible. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the regulation and functioning of entrepreneurship should generally be carried out more systematically in all legislative areas relating to the business of economic operators. More complex solutions will need to be found, on the one hand, to deliver better results in the area of competitiveness and, on the other hand, to ensure a fair entrepreneurial environment in which the basic principles of responsible and moral behaviour between economic operators themselves and with respect to all individuals, and not least to society as a whole, will work. In our opinion, the sum total can only be a condition for a better and better future for all of us. Of course, we support the amendment of the Economic Companies Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, because we have estimated that it contains solutions that are sufficiently conducive to registration procedures, allow effective verification of the facts and satisfactory prevention of abuses that are taking place today in our business environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group,
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, everyone here is welcome first! The Company Act is one of the fundamental rules that defines economic operators and their functioning in Slovenia. The novelty of this law, which is now before us, is mainly due to the Constitutional Court's ruling, which has annulled certain provisions of the law because of non-constitutionality. These were provisions determining who could not be the founder, shareholder and member of the management or control body of the company in the event that one of the insolvency or forced termination proceedings had been initiated over the company. The proposed novelty thus regulates the scope of the restrictions on the establishment of companies, the acquisition of the status of the partner and the entrepreneur. According to the new proposal of the law, a person will not be able to establish a company or become a member if he has been legally sentenced in the Republic of Slovenia to imprisonment for a criminal offence against the economy, against the labour relationship and social security, against legal traffic, against property and against the environment, space and natural goods. The same will apply to persons on the list of taxpayers and non-proposer accounts. From now on, before the company registration procedure or before becoming a member, they will have to settle their obligations first. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal of the law. However, we believe that a number of steps will have to be taken to improve legislation that will prevent different acts and bad business practices, which are usually accompanied by bad intentions and greed for the individual. A part of a good business environment is certainly also a confidence in the institutions of the country that, through various instruments, they are able to exclude entities that put mistrust in the field of economic activity and raise doubts about the legal security of individuals and businesses by violating the rules. In New Slovenia, we believe that personal and social responsibility should also be more effective in the area of entrepreneurship. In this regard, we advocate a position that we have also written down in our core programme. Responsible business risks are driving the innovative economy. However, those too many risks, the negative consequences of which can be affected by employed citizens, their savings and prosperity, must be controlled and limited by clear rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. Mrs. Aleksandra has the floor. Osterman, who will present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! The problems related to the existence, access, incompleteness and inadequacy of the data related to the implementation of Article 10a and Article 10b, following a decision by the Constitutional Court, resulted in the extension of the entry of business entities into the register, significantly further burdening the controllers of the data records, and the backlogs in the courts thus increased. We know that the administrative environment in which economic operators operate and create is one of the more important criteria for classifying the country on the competitiveness scale. The proposal for a new law thus aims to accelerate registration procedures, restrict the establishment of companies and independent entrepreneurs by commercially unfair natural and legal persons, relieve registries and record managers and increase confidence in business relations and legal traffic. The solutions to the proposed amendment thus, in particular, strengthen the set of circumstances under which the registration authority may restrict the establishment of a company or an individual undertaking and the acquisition of the status of a member, while limiting the restrictions on the establishment and acquisition of a business share to persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence to imprisonment. The obligation of point VEM shall also be introduced with regard to the automatic identification of the facts relating to the outstanding tax obligations and the outstanding accounts prior to the submission of the application for registration in the Court Register or the Business Register of Slovenia. The registration authority, notaries and VEM points shall be allowed by law to obtain data from official records such as criminal records, the non-payment list, the list of non-proposer accounts. All of these are necessary to determine the existence of reasons for restricting the establishment. The operator of the description shall, upon application for registration in the register, attach a certified declaration to the owner of the facility allowing the operation of the independent entrepreneur or the company at that address. It is not insignificant that the proposed solutions to the amendment of the Company Law also agree with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which welcomes the solutions introduced by the amendment, as they also believe that the speed of setting up companies is an important factor in a successful and competitive economy. We support the positive Slovenia Group for all this novelty. We are convinced that the adoption of this novelty is essential, since it will in a more transparent way limit the establishment of companies and independent entrepreneurs, and the acquisition of the status of a member by commercially unfair legal and natural persons. For a certain period of time, this is a period of five years or until the law meets certain circumstances, individuals who have demonstrated by their past conduct that they are not capable of working properly and participating in the Slovenian business environment will be excluded from the business environment. This will also increase confidence in business relations and legal traffic. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, as has already been said, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you, too. And the word is mag. Marko Pogačnik, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! And a special greeting to our visitors! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always supported and always advocated laws that reduce administrative barriers to entrepreneurship and, of course, ensure greater efficiency. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the initial route proposed by the drafter of this law was correct, as this law accelerates the registration of companies and also limits the possibility of certain abuses and allows for greater protection on the market. However, we would like to express our concern about the opinions and comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on this Act, and we appeal to the drafter of the law as soon as possible to bring this law into line with the related laws so that there will be no change. It is interesting, however, that this bill is probably one of the few supported by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce. Once again, in the SDS Group, we would urge that all the comments and proposals made by the Legislative and Legal Service be taken into account and make sure that entrepreneurship can be more effective in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Smodiš has the floor to present the views of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All present, good afternoon! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support solutions to amendments to the laws on companies which prevent economic companies, natural and legal persons who are directly or indirectly involved in capital of a capital company, which is publicly published on the list of non-proposer accounts or non-payment lists under the law governing the tax procedure. The restrictions also apply to the establishment of companies. Thus, an economic company may be set up by a natural or legal person who has more than 25 % of the share of the company, including any taxes and other compulsory charges which have expired within the legal period of payment, other than those to which the decree or the remuneration has been granted in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure and other data and indications provided by the law. Restrictions on the establishment of companies have already been made possible by the law adopted under the mandate of the Government of Borut Pahor, but it is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, 25. 4. In 2013, the amendment of the Company Act, which limited the right to set up and supervise companies to directors and supervisors of companies in insolvency proceedings, was partially repealed. The new Parliament was adopted in November 2011, with the start of a constitutional review, and in December 2011, the Constitutional Court suspended the implementation of the amendment. After a half-second year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia partially annulled the amendment. If the government hadn't changed the law, there would have been problems in practice. If the law had not changed, the courts would have asked the parties to obtain criminal records and confirm DURS themselves. This would very much deny the establishment of companies. This prevents amendments to the Law on Economic Companies by the Government. As a result, there will be no further delays in setting up businesses. We believe that the pace of business start-up must be accelerated, but it is still necessary to prevent business start-ups from being established on purpose. Perhaps we should follow the case of Austria when each bankruptcy automatically constitutes a criminal investigation. That's something the government should think about. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this proposal prevents the establishment of straw companies whose purpose is to play the role of creditors and workers. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Charter and the democratic party of Slovenian pensioners. Who wants to discuss Article 13 and the amendment? I find that there is no desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on a supportive framework for an enterprise under the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mrs Andrea Kert, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Once again, all well-known, distinguished Members of Parliament and honourable Members! The extension of the range of potential beneficiaries for development incentives is an essential solution to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment. This opens the way for incentives for entrepreneurship and innovation to be granted to all types of natural and legal persons engaged in economic activity and not only to economic operators established in accordance with the Company Act. This underlines the importance of the criterion as to how much they can contribute to the achievement of the stated objectives of individual incentives, such as raising additional value, preserving jobs or creating new jobs and so on, and not what their legal form is. For example, the amendment of the law will allow us to devote, in the context of future development incentives, to cooperatives, social enterprises and other legal and natural persons engaged in economic activity who have not had this option since the current law. However, all potential beneficiaries applying for funding or State aid under public tendering will have to meet the same conditions as before, and their projects will also be assessed on the same basis, so that the amendment of the law does not pose a risk that the extension of the beneficiary circle would result in the privilege or, on the other hand, the neglect of one of the operators involved in economic activity. Furthermore, the proposal replaces the current programming document, which is a programme of measures to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness, a strategy defining the industrial policy of the Republic of Slovenia, while creating a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation on development incentives for entrepreneurship and innovation. The latter is also an important legal basis for notifying State aid schemes for the future financial perspective and whose adoption is envisaged within one year of the application of the amendments to the law. All of this is also linked to the adoption of the relevant documents by the European Commission. The proposed amendments also delete Article 6 of the Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment 1.a point of transitional and final provisions laying down the legal basis for the accession of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship to the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development. In accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the merger did not take place because last year it was found that it was not necessary to create an effective financial environment. While the Fund shall continue in accordance with its competences and mutual cooperation and the implementation of its activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The law itself was also regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Pavlič, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much again. The Committee on the Economy is at its 36th emergency meeting, 18. 9. In 2013, he considered the above-mentioned proposal of the law as his mother's labour force. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 63rd session, 13. 9. In 2013, it decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made specific comments to Articles 2, 3 and 5. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supported the proposal. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SDS Group on Articles 1 and 2 and by the PS, DL and DeSUS Group on new Articles 2a to 3, 4 and 5 of the proposal. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the proposed amendment completely amends Articles 4 and 5 of the current law, which introduces the legal concepts and word relations used in the subsequent Articles, which is not duly taken into account in the subsequent articles. The debate focused on Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. The amendment proposed that the definition of an undertaking should be consistent with the definition set out in Commission Regulation No 800/2008 and should therefore be accompanied by an explanation that, in particular, self-employed persons and family enterprises engaged in trade and other activities, as well as partner companies or associations that regularly engage in economic activities. On the contrary, the other members and members of the Committee and representatives of the Government opposed the proposed amendment, as they believe that the adoption of the amendment would constitute favouritism for individual legal and organisational forms of the company. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee identified and did not adopt any amendments to the SDS Group's amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law. The Committee has also identified and adopted Article 3, Article 4 and Article 5 of the proposal of the PS, DL and DeSUS. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you for presenting the committee report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u24	Good afternoon, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Let me say immediately in the introduction that in the Slovenian People's Party we will be pleased to support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship. We believe that it is right, and we agree that such laws are adopted by emergency procedure. However, if we awakened the memory, perhaps a few years ago, an emergency procedure would be highly criticized by the opposition. I will not criticize him myself today, but I have received this kind of impression several times last year, if we have estimated that something is necessary in the country, we have done so following an emergency procedure. This is a change that we are trying, as has already been explained, to improve the business environment, especially for cooperatives, social enterprises and those who have had limited access to support funds so far. We also agree in the Slovenian People's Party that it does not matter what the organisational form of this society is, but it is important that they make their contribution and that the numbers going in a negative direction, that we now have about 10,000 more unemployed than we had a year ago, stop and that this trend turns. We certainly can't just take one such measure, but we think it's a step in the right direction. And, as I have already said, I hope that in the future there will be as many such laws as possible in the National Assembly, that we will improve the business environment, but not as we have done in recent weeks and months, that we will mainly impose new taxes. I think that's the right direction. Therefore, once again, the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! A key novelty in this time change and additions to the Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act is a change in the definition of an undertaking and this definition is summarised in the Regulation of the European Commission. The latter means that a range of beneficiaries will be extended which can be recipients of funds at the public calls of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and its implementing institutions at national and local level. The beneficiary can now only be an economic company or an independent entrepreneur established in accordance with the Company Act. The fact is, in addition, we have a whole range of entities of special organisational forms, which are operators of economic activity. This novel gives them the opportunity to obtain favourable aid and incentives or financial resources from other social enterprises and cooperatives. Both forms are more or less new in our business environment and are already quite widespread in Europe, and it also appears to be quite successful. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are convinced that in the current economic situation it is important to use different business models to save the healthy cores of businesses and thus enable employees to maintain their jobs. According to our assessment, it is worth setting up a more appropriate business environment in order to revive economic activity, in particular with a view to maintaining and encouraging those sectors of the economy where we have excellent potential at home, and we have not used them or have used them poorly. As an example, we can expose the timber industry. And in this particular area, I think we have the first case of industrial society. Of course, I am talking about the new Novoles, which today brings together 12 members, 10 natural persons and 2 companies to start production and employ 130 people this autumn. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we welcome amendments to legislation that can positively contribute to more sustainable economic development, and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u28	Your Honor! One of the most important changes introduced by the new Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment is to extend the range of potential beneficiaries to develop incentives for entrepreneurship and innovation to other legal and natural persons engaged in economic activity. The amendment of the law will thus, according to the proposaler, allow development incentives to be justified, for example, by cooperatives which, following the legislation so far, were not allowed to run for tenders. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new law because we believe that any assistance to the Slovenian economy at this time is welcome. At the same time, we stress that in New Slovenia we have long believed that our great potential is in particular small family and medium-sized enterprises. These companies play an important role in today's economic situation, especially in self-employment and job creation, as they can adapt faster to the situation and needs of the market. During our working visits to Slovenia in Novi Slovenija, we were able to convince ourselves of this several times. We believe that these companies should be allowed to have a good business environment and the possibility of development and entry into foreign markets. Of course, Slovenia will have to take more steps to achieve this objective than the smaller change in the sectoral legislation ahead. In Novi Slovenija, we advocate the view that a more favourable tax environment could also contribute to the recovery of economic activity, which would give entrepreneurial innovation a new wind into the sails and at the same time attract foreign investors. We estimate that the provision of various direct and indirect subsidies to the economy may be even harmful in certain cases, as it increases the potential for corruption and sometimes diverts the attention of entrepreneurs from the substantive search for the most optimal products and services to speculation and adaptation of projects to tender conditions and financial acrobatics. We therefore call on the government of Alenka Bratušek to start thinking again about a tax policy that would allow businesses to be more competitive. At the same time, they will be able to invest more money in research that is a condition for development and jobs. Above all, it is essential to speed up the elimination of bureaucratic barriers in order to make it easier for entrepreneurs to carry out their basic activities, but not to deal too much with the paperwork that allows them to register on the tenders.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Under the current law, only companies and independent entrepreneurs – as we have heard today – can apply to various public calls for incentives for entrepreneurship and innovation, but not to other legal entities engaged in economic activity, such as cooperative and social enterprises. This narrowness with the amendment of the law is being changed and we propose to align cooperatives and social enterprises with traditional forms of companies, as elsewhere in Europe and around the world. We call cooperatives in the world. We will find them in all the members of the European Union, the United States, Asia and South America. Despite the fact that, according to the European Parliament and the European Commission, cooperatives and other social economy enterprises play an essential role in the European economy, in particular in the crisis, as they have been creating high-quality jobs and enhancing social, economic and regional cohesion for decades with the integration of profitability and solidarity, but we have neglected them in Slovenia over the past 22 years. And even today, we still underestimate them and take them as a fashion fly's one-day stand. In Europe today, we have 160,000 joint ventures owned by 123 million members and members. They employ 5.4 million people and their average share of GDP is 5%. In the United States of America, we have over 47,000 cooperatives, of which there are thousands of energy cooperatives. They have 100 million members. In Italy, by the way, different cooperatives contribute 8% to GDP. And what is a cooperative or cooperative? The cooperative is an autonomous association of one or more types of groups; these are consumers, producers, workers who voluntarily merge with the aim of meeting their common economic, social and cultural needs through, I stress, democratic governance and supervision of the cooperative. They always put their members and jobs first, members are owners, and also care for the community in which they operate. They view capital and profit as a means to create a productive and people-friendly living and working environment. They also set up joint banks and knowledge institutions for their development and expansion. Without knowledge and honest or good banks, there is no progress. In fact, it is companies competing with their products and services on the global market. The novelty, however, touches on another very important area, the allocation of incentives for entrepreneurship and innovation. In Positive Slovenia we support various incentives for the economy. There have been many of them in the last ten years, but we believe that the state must upgrade the mechanism for controlling the use of these funds and to direct them very carefully in areas where these funds appear to be used most effectively. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we propose that a large part of the development incentives be given to companies which are export-oriented and high-tech companies. In addition, sufficient resources should also be allocated to the development of a society that we have neglected and has great potential and to social enterprises and, above all, to start-ups, to those who are just starting their journey with innovative products. We believe that the source and planned promotion of research and innovation can be the engine of the Slovenian economy, which will greatly help to get out of the crisis, and the cooperatives can be a new model of economic integration in the resolution of selected cores of businesses in bankruptcy and privatisation and in the implementation of entrepreneurial initiatives for young people and their employment. We will certainly support the law in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Member State of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, all present visitors to the National Assembly! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always supported solutions that promote the development of an entrepreneurial environment. We always stress how important it is for businesses to have a fully business-friendly environment; tax policy, a policy to remove bureaucratic barriers, and also all other elements that promote entrepreneurship and economic growth. That is why we will not oppose this bill because it contains some good solutions. We agree that it is necessary to extend the range of those beneficiaries who can apply for public funding as much as possible. Therefore, we do not dispute these attempts or the government’s proposal. Also, cooperatives and social enterprises, which need to continue to develop, provide an opportunity to save jobs in Slovenia and also to contribute to economic growth. However, we stress here, above all, that entrepreneurship must be encouraged in its entirety. Economic organisations, businesses, independent entrepreneurs, individuals in Slovenia generate 80 billion revenues, while cooperatives generate only 80 million revenues. It is therefore necessary to know who those companies are, who will be able to lead Slovenia to economic growth and to further development. And once again, I agree with the cooperatives that other forms that operate on the market and deal with the economy also get this opportunity and the opportunity to run for public funds. However, from the presentation of the views we have already heard and the discussions that have been on the committee, however, there is some fear that there will be some kind of preference for certain entities. They wouldn't do that. All must be equal in obtaining these funds. That is why we are concerned about this solution, which says or does not summarize the amendment that we have tabled and which has led in the direction that the text of the amended law is, in fact, fully summarized in the text as we have in the regulation. The Government or the proposer presented these amendments himself in such a way as to introduce the solutions in force in the Regulation in order to summarise the regulation, but not to comply with it. The Regulation is summarised in only one part and the Regulation is not fully summarised. Therefore, while we support the extension of this new option, we have a slightly bitter taste of being tried by the applicants in some way not to say around with these solutions. We are certainly not going to oppose this proposal of the law, but we warn and hope that no one who is privileged in this group will be granted these funds when they are actually made available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! For Social Democrats too, a fundamental substantive amendment to the amendment of the Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment is bound by Article 1. The change in the definition of an undertaking, as provided for in this Article, will extend the range of potential beneficiaries of the funds and thus allow them to access the country's development incentives for entrepreneurship and innovation irrespective of their legal form. This change is in line with the European Commission's guidelines, which do not limit the granting of incentives in the field of entrepreneurship to the status legal organisation of enterprises, as we have warned several times before. The proposed amendment is also in line with the 2013-2016 Social Entrepreneurship Development Strategy adopted by the Government this year in July and commits the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to examine the possibility of adapting legislation in the area of the entrepreneurship support environment by allowing social enterprises to benefit from the measures and instruments of the support environment. However, the reason for the change is also, of course, in the changed economic situation in Slovenia, as the financial and economic crisis has led to a growing number of forms of corporate organisation. The change in the definition of beneficiaries of support measures also allows the application of a model already confirmed in many European countries, and is also recommended by many documents adopted within the European Union, whereby workers resolve the healthy cores of businesses, which otherwise would fail and consequently increase the unemployment rate, which would of course have an additional negative impact on the poor economy. I must say that in the SD Group we have been working for this change for a very long time, as we were, as you know, the authors of the Social Entrepreneurship Act. And one of the key reasons why social entrepreneurship is still not developing sufficiently within two years of the creation of the law is certainly also linked to limited access to development incentives that otherwise exist for businesses. Despite the doubts raised by some, social enterprises are companies by definition; they are engaged in the production and provision of services on the market, and their specificity in relation to classical enterprises is that making profits is not an exclusive and the main objective of doing business. Their important objective is also to pursue the social benefits of engaging those who are more vulnerable to the labour market and, on the other hand, to produce those goods and services that are important to the general public and, of course, to classical companies, are not of interest. The amendment introduced by the amendment to the Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act does not mean automatic access to these funds. But it means an opportunity they've never had before. So the new law follows what we have been committed to in the SD for a very long time. We are pleased that the Government has listened to our proposals and, of course, our parliamentary group supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič has the floor to present the position of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In order to extend the range of beneficiaries to the means and development incentives for entrepreneurship and innovation allocated by the State to economic operators and independent entrepreneurs, the definition of the concept of an undertaking in the draft law changes so that it also covers all natural persons engaged in economic activity. By amending and supplementing the law, the public calls of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and its implementing institutions, such as the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Promotion of Entrepreneurship, Innovation, Development, Investment and Tourism and others, could also be run by cooperatives for funds and development incentives, such as organisations of natural or legal persons established to promote the economic benefit of their members. With this proposal, the government has shown that it is monitoring the economic situation and that it wants to help the Slovenian economy in its work relating to the rescue or restructuring of healthy nuclear companies for many of its small but non-essential steps. Not only because of the coalition agreement, when partners and I committed ourselves, among other things, to work for structural, management and technological solutions that will increase the resilience of the Slovenian economy to the effects of the global economic and financial crisis, but because of the common sense of removing unnecessary administrative obstacles and helping the Slovenian industry, we will support the bill in the National Paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All right, everybody, welcome back! Here I will only commend the proposer and all the others who have somehow listened to our amendment, which we had on the committee. It is likely that the amendment will be adopted in the form proposed by the coalition parties, because somehow it will not be appropriate for our amendment to be adopted, but still – I welcome this smart decision. This Article 2 contains quite a bit of the content that has been amended. In particular, I drew the attention of the Committee to one of the indiscretions that had taken place, namely, that such a dictatorship, which had been in law, had in fact closed the possibility that different conditions for companies running for public funding should be laid down in the sub-legislative act. The Secretary of State also expressed her gratitude for this proposal and announced her support. Again, thank you very much for listening to our salvation and for accepting it as yours, though perhaps with a slight second word. The main thing is that the content is the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to point out the second dimension of this law. How many such laws have we passed in the last 10 years? A lot. The result? The negative economic growth, the widespread economy, according to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, is two thirds of the companies in debt and are unable to repay their obligations, the indebted country. Let's ask ourselves what's going on! He's not here, you see. Although it is difficult to oppose this law, in principle it pursues a good goal. However, from the past, we know that there have actually been no effects. Our economy, which we discussed on Tuesday, is actually on a competitive scale among the least competitive. How is this possible if we have a bunch of adopted laws, rules on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship? You know, my explanation is that paper carries everything. We write nicely on paper, we draw, we define, but in the implementation of the paper, we destroy it all ourselves in Parliament earlier or the next day. Entrepreneurship needs a stable environment, we talked about it on Tuesday, and we destabilized it because we changed conditions in the meantime, and in particular it needs a stable tax framework or even better – low taxes. With taxes, that's what one tax expert told me, you can manage everything. Natality – who will have children if we have such taxes, if they cannot survive themselves, and in the coming years this will reflect dramatically. Who will set up businesses if we have tax hell instead of tax heaven? Billions of euros were passed through various laws to promote entrepreneurship, but what are the effects. I ask again, more myself than you or the public. They're gone. We don't detect them. Unemployment is enormously high, the economy is uncompetitive and so on. Here's the problem, and who's gonna answer. The tens, hundreds, billions of money that went to develop entrepreneurship was not in the right hands. Personally, and I think that this has also been mentioned in one debate, I am advocating a different development model for promoting the economy; let's lower taxes and everyone will have one of these. When Minister Stepišnik prepared the call for 500 million, from reliable sources I know, he prepared his version – he will not go public because the predatory groups come, see their interests in these 500 million and the handful gets it. And that's how we've been doing it all these years, and that's why we're not successful. Because in the previous law, we have identified exclusion criteria for who can have a business, when will we make exclusion criteria, who can act in politics. Can politicians who for decades have shared money in such a way that it has no effect, that the state is in a loss, because we have a budget deficit, negative economic growth, participate – I think that if we live in a legal and just state, the same criteria should apply. The comparison is given for Ireland, Denmark and Hungary, let us see how Austria has this arranged and arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! We have two amendments to Article 2 of the Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment. They both deserve support, but the adoption technology of the amendments will probably be such that the president will put to the vote first the amendment previously tabled, this is called the amendment of the coalition, and let me say that I will support this amendment. As it is said, they are both good, substantively very similar and improve the amendment of the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. In New Slovenia we are always and always strive to make the environment as good as possible for entrepreneurship, so that entrepreneurship can breathe with full lungs. I have said many times, and I repeat that Slovenia will be saved by the only economy or economists from the economic crisis, and we must not oppose the politicians here. We need to create a good business environment. Otherwise, we have a very diversified network of entities that care about a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Let me list only the essentials: the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Public Agency Spirit, the Enterprise Slovenian Portal and the European Enterprise Network. That is exactly what I would like to point out right now, because I say that Slovenia is in economic terms, and perhaps another sense, too closed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself, at one of the Foreign Policy Committee meetings, even before his parliamentary holidays, complained that we were too closed in economic terms. We, colleagues and colleagues, need to open up. And this European entrepreneurship network has about 500 centres in 40 European countries, about 4,000 experienced experts, and I wonder how much we benefit from this potential in Slovenia. It's a huge potential, and it's also ours in some way. There was also talk of association. That's right. We've been neglecting the partnership. I come from the region, which – I hope is still valid – the grain of Slovenia, Pomurje. At least in the premurk part of Pomurje, the agricultural cooperative has virtually collapsed. It is probably not the Parliament's fault as an on-call guilty party, as is often the case today's flat-rate claim. We know who is establishing cooperatives, not parliament, not government, not the congregation. But I ask us, colleagues and colleagues, of course also the Government, how to help people, how to encourage them to just set up cooperatives. Finally, this is an outstanding potential and in Slovenia, agricultural and other cooperatives, crafts and so on, work extremely well. I understand an effective support environment for entrepreneurship, including such an environment that is stable. I kind of missed my application for a debate at the previous item on the agenda, but I don't want to break the rules of procedure, but if we just look at the chronology since 2011, the adoption of the GAG, the company law, and the constitutional decisions, and so on, as we can call it; an extremely unstable economic environment, if I look only at the context of the amendment of the Company Law. And now I'm going back to Europe. Could we not gather domestic experts, including European experts, and once and for all write a stable ZGD, the Company Act, and not leave behind various lobbying that always see here an opportunity to place their pot. And that's why we have some anomalies in the law. With the latest novel, which we are likely to support today, the amendment of the Company Act, someone who is familiar with these matters has estimated that it is essentially a battle against dishonest directors, and this battle goes from blocking into confusion and these confusions are always the worst. I would rather boast, colleagues and colleagues, not so much about how easy it is for us to set up a company, but how easy it is to run a company with us. That there will be no administrative and other different obstacles, and above all that financial servicing of companies will be better, or that it will be better, because it is not now. In this context, there is no way I can escape the reply of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek to my Monday's question of when [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u43	Mr. Horvath, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we're in second reading and we can only talk about the content of the amendment. Therefore, I ask you to focus on the content of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, I conclude with this. However, it was a business environment, as I asked the President, who replied that measures for economic growth would be least negative, of course with the aim of consolidating public finances. So, read: measures for the economy will be negative. But the government is trying to keep them at least negative. I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, if I'm a little late, but I understand all this as the business environment of Slovenian entrepreneurship! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you, too. The word was given to everyone who was registered. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 4th A-point of the agenda, which is to defend the proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the law on financial collateral under the urgent procedure. Before opening the debate and presenting the law, I would like to inform you that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group addressed a letter to me desiring to give an oral or written opinion at the meeting of the National Assembly on the compliance of the amendments adopted by the Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the national working body before the opening of the debate and the presentation of the law. In this regard, I have asked the Legal and Legal Service to respond through the Office. The answer was in writing, which was also published on the e-club, and I will also read it to you on this occasion. The answer is: "On the basis of the letter sent, we answer you as follows. Firstly, the question of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group concerns the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the compliance of the amendments adopted on the Committee, and it is not clear which aspect of compliance covers this issue. The Legislative and Legal Service took part in a meeting of the parent body and gave an opinion on both the proposal for a law and the amendments. In particular, it has also identified the compatibility of the amendments tabled with the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law. All of this is indicated in the reports of the parent working body. In terms of its tasks, the Legislative and Legal Service does not have an additional opinion. Secondly, with regard to a possible warning concerning the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government shall give an opinion on the possible non-compliance at the end of the third reading of the bill. The leader, Mr. God Strle." So much for the introductory explanation of the law. But we're moving on to the law. The law has been tabled by the Government, and for further explanation of the bill, I ask if the representative of the Government wishes to present the law? He doesn't want to. The draft law has also been considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall hold its 67th urgent meeting, on 24. 9. In 2013, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The Committee was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which also made comments to individual articles of the bill, namely Articles 1, 2, 3 and 8. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 1, 2, 3, 8 and 10. In the introductory explanation, the Government, or the representative of the Ministry of Finance, explained what the bill was making. A key solution is the establishment of a quick way to realize the lien of real estate owned by bank debtors by notarizing the sale of real estate on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record. The proposal for a law provides for a solution that will accelerate the possibility of cashing out the collateral held by the credit institutions and the Banks Claims Management Company. These solutions currently apply only to credit institutions, but it is not acceptable that this issue should not later be passed on to other creditors. On a number of points raised and discussed, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, considered all the amendments tabled to the draft law and adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 8 and 10. The Committee then voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all amendments, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. We propose that the National Assembly also accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. All Members and Members of Parliament and the others present are warmly welcomed! The new Financial Insurance Act was created as a response to the acute economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia, which resulted from the decline in bank credit activity. The reason for the bank's credit downturn is the inadequate lending policy of certain banks in the past, resulting in bad loans. The extent of bad loans in our banking system, which will have to be resolved through a bad bank, is still increasing. It amounts to EUR 7.51 billion or 21.4% of gross social product, according to the Bank of Slovenia report in July. In the category of problematic loans – the latter are for about 22 billion, concluded with risk operators. These include loans secured by real estate, the total share of such secured claims is 77 %. In order to resolve as quickly as possible the serious and financial problems of credit institutions, the Ministry of Finance or the Government proposes to regulate the mortgage process on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record as a means of insurance. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this will enable a faster realization of real estate relations, as insurance based on a directly enforceable notary record allows an immediate start to the enforcement process on real estate. We agree that this new procedural option will apply to all, including the existing relations. The Notary Real Estate Institute will be able to use credit institutions and the Bank Claims Management Company, a so-called bad bank. However, it makes sense to consider extending this solution to other creditors. In the DeSUS Group we understand this novel as one of the many necessary measures to solve the Slovenian banking system. The bill will be supported by Members and Members of the DeSUS, and we hope that the changes will have a positive, effective and effective effect on the liquidity of our banks and, as a result, on the re-credit activity of banks towards the economy. In addition, the solution is good because there will be real estate, some residential property, can quickly be placed on the real estate market, thereby restoring the functioning of the real estate market. What is at stake at i, of course, in addition to all the measures that the banks will still have to take, is that in this way the funds dedicated to bank resolution will now be reimbursed as quickly as possible and to the greatest extent possible. As it is said, in the DeSUS Group we are committed to supporting the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable Young Visitors! I also welcome representatives of the Ministry of Finance at Zupančičova 3. The Financial Insurance Act introduces a simplified procedure for notary real estate sales, on which a mortgage is established on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record, namely for a limited circle of entities, mortgage creditors and debtors who are legal persons. The broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service draws attention to the legal and legislative and technical shortcomings of the proposed amendment of the law, which are also not addressed by the amendments tabled by the coalition. The establishment of the property notary sales material, on which a mortgage is established on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record, does not fall within the Financial Insurance Act, but into a special law which should regulate the possibilities of notary sales for all entities, including cases such as a mortgage creditor and a debtor to a natural person. There is no reason to distinguish between procedures such as a mortgage creditor and a debtor to a legal or natural person. This amendment of the law in New Slovenia is understood as a kind of non-trust to our judicial system, whose exclusive competence so far has been to conduct enforcement procedures, including real estate executions based on a directly enforceable notary record. The reasons given by the amendment to the Financial Insurance Act now under consideration for the regulation of the Notary Sale Procedure include the complexity and longevity of the proceedings. Of course, judicial proceedings are complex and long-term, but they could be reduced significantly with better organisation and effective work of the courts. In this direction, the courts have done little so far. The ineffective work of the courts cannot be a reason for the actual powers of the courts to be transferred to other bodies, in particular in matters where there is a conflict of interest. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that all enforcement procedures fall within the jurisdiction of the court, and not only does the enforcement procedure ensure effective legal protection of all participants in the enforcement procedure. Indeed, the enforcement procedure does not only protect the rights of the creditor but also the debtor. The right of a mortgage debtor in the current bill is not protected. However, we know that there may be a number of changes between the creditor and the debtor following the formation of the mortgage from the underlying transaction, which is secured by mortgage, either on the basis of a contract or other type of transaction, such as an agreement on the extension or deferral of payment of the claim, on the conversion of the creditor's claim into the debtor's equity share, on the takeover of the debt by a third party and so forth. We also know that changes in the basic debt-supply relationship are at least generally not regulated by a new notary record. We also know that there is often a situation where the debt after the basic business is already paid, but the mortgage creditor does not expose the obituary in the land book. We have a whole series of mortgages for debts that have already been repaid. In the enforcement proceedings, each debtor shall thus have the opportunity to raise objections in that direction and to provide appropriate evidence for his claims. The Court shall, of course, decide accordingly that these options are not given in the notary sale procedure with the amendment of the Financial Insurance Act. The mortgage debtor has virtually no rights or possibilities in the Notary Sale process to prevent the notary sale of a mortgage-burdened property, even if the debt is covered by a mortgage paid in full. And this is precisely the essential flaw in this law, which, according to New Slovenia's belief, will have serious negative consequences for our economy. Mortgage debtors are in most of the cases of an economic society. These will lead to serious business difficulties or even insolvency proceedings due to lack of procedural guarantees for notary sales. As a result, there is a loss of unnecessary working bodies. As has already been said, Members of New Slovenia will not support this novelty of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act provides the necessary solutions to establish the normal functioning of the banking sector, which is one of the main causes of the tight economic situation in the country, in order to reduce the credit activity of banks. The fact is that complex mortgage procedures have a negative impact on the valuation of real estate. The long-term cashing of mortgages and the costs associated with this would result in higher discounts in the valuation of values and would further increase capital requirements. The new law thus introduces a faster procedure for the exercise of the flag right on real estate by notary sale of real estate on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record. By establishing notary real estate sales, credit institutions will acquire the necessary liquidity to credit the economy, and in this way, when the claims are transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company, it will be possible to achieve the set target of the amount of funds allocated to the resolution of credit institutions and the amount of funds to be reimbursed to the State budget as soon as possible. The Novela therefore introduces a process of notary real estate sales to be carried out by notaries on behalf of the mortgage creditor and, after its function, the Notary will have to take care of both the interests of the creditor and the debtor. The sale will take place on the basis of a binding call for tenders. The essential condition for such a sales procedure is that the mortgage must be entered in the land book and must also indicate the direct enforceability of the notary record. At the same time, the mortgage creditor must be a person of public law, an international institution or a credit institution. However, the debtor and the owner of the property is a small, medium or large company. The property will be sold to the best bidder. In Positive Slovenia, we are aware of the urgency of the start-up of the economy, which will not occur without the stabilisation of the banking sector. We are confident that the proposed solution will help to prolong the economy and strengthen the banking system or its faster recovery, so we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u54	That's a nice hello to you all! The new law, according to the applicant, improves or accelerates the effectiveness of the cashing process or the sale of real estate held by banks to borrowers who have failed to settle their liabilities and the loan is secured by mortgage. The amendments provided for in this Act are intended to establish a method for the exercise of the lien rights on immovable property owned by bank debtors by notarizing the sale of immovable property on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record. The possibility of notary real estate sales is also expected by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The legal act in the course of the sale of the property held is to be performed by the notary on behalf of the bank or the mortgage creditor. Due to the difficult situation in the Slovenian banks, it is important that banks with mortgaged properties can sell as quickly as possible and, of course, at as little cost as possible. However, the proposed new Notary Sales Institute, introduced by this law, is legally very demanding and the question is whether this will really speed up and reduce the sale of fixed property. In addition, the issue of the additional earnings of notaries and the question of the methods of valuation of real estates is also being raised, of course, as we will have more evaluations. In addition, the legal service has raised several issues, a number of issues and the consistency of the further legal system, which is further complicated in this way. Because of all these concerns in the SDS Group, we will not support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Smodiš will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Social Democrats support the proposed amendment to the Financial Insurance Act, which provides for a process of notary real estate sales based on a directly enforceable notary record. The proposal for amendments defines the notarial sale procedure for the creditor-debtor ratios in which at least one of the parties is a credit institution. Notary sales shall be made at the request of the creditor when the conditions laid down in the notary record are met. The notary sales procedure provides for notaries to request the debtor to pay the claims and, in the case of the debtor of the liability, to continue the procedure with the publication of the invitation to tender on the basis of which the most favourable is chosen. If tenders do not exceed the starting price of 70 % of the estimated value of the property, the mortgage creditor may take over the property at the original price. The urgency of the adoption of the law is also proposed because the proposal for a law provides for the implementation of solutions that will speed up the possibility of the repayment of insurance provided by the credit institutions and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Since the cashing up of insurance is also linked to the available liquidity of these institutions and also to insolvency, it is essential for them to operate as soon as possible in order to establish a system that will enable effective cashing. With the establishment of the system, those institutions will acquire the necessary liquidity to manage their tasks, to credit the economy, to manage the bad debts of banks, and to reduce the need for recapitalisation from the state budget. For this reason, the Social Democrats Group will support the proposal of the Financial Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. And Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. With the proposed regulation of the rules on notary sales as an extra-judicial enforcement of the notary mortgage, the cashability of the notary mortgages will be significantly improved as the creditor bank will no longer have to enforce them in the enforcement proceedings. With the amendment of the law, we determine the entities and procedure for the implementation of the mortgage on the basis of an enforceable notary record. In any event, the procedure itself will not concern natural persons, as the new notary sale procedure is only allowed between legal persons, with the creditor being the credit institution, the domestic bank being the normal or the bad bank. The fear that citizens will now be less protected from banks is therefore unjustifiable. The main principles are efficiency, speed, equality and transparency. And it is precisely the first two principles, efficiency and speed, that should help to ensure that the introduction of the law has an immediate impact, particularly through the valuation of the properties used to secure loans. A higher valuation will thus help to increase the valuation of the banking asset, which means lower recapitalisation requirements. The very impact of this new evaluation procedure is why we are adopting this law in an emergency procedure. I believe that this change will lead to a higher evaluation – for how long, it is difficult to predict. Of course, we can speculate, on the other hand, that precisely the efficiency and hastyness of the procedure will increase the supply on the business property market, which, when economic activity falls, has an impact on the lowering of the market values of real estate. And yes, the European Commission insists on market values when assessing assets transferred to a bad bank. What effect will be weighed is difficult to predict. Due to complex judicial proceedings, banks have rarely decided to make a mortgage, which has not helped to solve the accumulated banking problems more quickly. With this change, we will add the wind to the sails to solve such problems. To banks that are capable of solving their own problems, we will give them additional tools to do so even more effectively. A little bit more about the scope of the problem. The law refers to 22 billion bank claims against companies that are insured in 77 percent by mortgages on real estate, most of which are commercial property. The bill is thus part of the necessary rehabilitation of the banking system, so we will support it in the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u60	Nice greeting, President. Colleagues and colleagues! "The government takes time," were the words we heard several times this spring, summer. Clearly, this is all the more true for the Ministry of Finance – but if I understood that they were not at the beginning of this point, when we did very quickly with the first two points in the National Assembly, Zupančičova is so close that it would be right for us to join in such an important law. Given that this law came at the beginning of this week, at the beginning of the meeting only on the agenda, that the committee was convened late in the evening, that there is still a lot of confusion about the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that we have today from the 10 articles of the amendment to the five articles, I would really expect the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to be at this point. We are talking about the amendment of the law, where it is at first sight a simple government measure that solves the seizure of property by banks, and after a thorough review it turns out that it is a solution that is, in a loving way, slightly outside the normal legal framework. I hope that this is not the reason that, as I have already said, we received this law virtually entirely at the beginning of the meeting on our bench and discussed it on the committees in the evening. The aim is to speed up the process of acquiring full ownership of seized property and thus have immediate access to it. It is understandable that this is now becoming a problem, especially before the transfer of claims to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. As we have heard in previous opinions, this is a very large amount of resources, if we calculate, that is 77% of the 22 billion – it is virtually over 15 billion of these assets, that is, as many as deposits in Slovenian banks. And in some ways, this case is also divisive or non-trusting to the judicial system, because so far this procedure should be carried out by Slovenian courts and bankruptcy administrators within normal time limits. In this way, this process is intended to encourage the collection, as soon as possible, of this assets held, into the ownership of banks and subsequently into the market. Despite the amendments, some of the issues raised by the Legislative and Legal Service are still open. It is also worth noting that the problem of finding comparable practice on this subject in the European Union is practically not in the law, which is as a normal annex to such laws. The main problem is that the Real Law Code provides that any creditor who has a mortgage that is directly enforceable has a possibility during a court sale or notary sale. This proposal for a law provides only for some of these entities. It is a manifestly uneven treatment of participants. If we are even more direct, the banks are highly favoured with other creditors. In fact, the law introduces that banks will be able to acquire property ownership by 70% of the estimated value as assessed by its evaluators, which is now directly contrary to the implementing law under which; if the property is purchased by the creditor, the claim is 100 % paid. In the proceedings, the debtor has no possibility of objecting or complaining, nor is the situation regulated when executions take place on the proposals of creditors other than those in the row and have a mortgage acquired in the enforcement procedure. What's going to happen to them now? How is their interest protected? It is also unacceptable that, in bankruptcy proceedings, a notary rather than a bankruptcy administrator or a court is sold. Sometimes the goal, although so needed, simply does not justify resources and it is always problematic to make exceptions in the legal order just to solve a specific problem and a group. In this case, we're missing a plan on how to proceed. Probably not the goal of the state that banks are the largest owners of property in the country, banks need money. Can we therefore conclude that, once these procedures have been completed, the real estate market will immediately be overrun by these properties? [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Once again, this situation will have consequences, extremely low prices achieved and worse bank withdrawals. [[...]] In the Slovenian People's Party, we will closely monitor the debate on the amendments and after this debate we will decide whether to support or not to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the amended draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12.42 p.m. They're advising me on 12.30. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u62	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, first of all, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, that is, by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled, which you have also received on the e-club, we are discussing or deciding on Article 13 and deciding on the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to this article. We're voting. The vote is under way. [[It's not working.]] You were a little late. Second of all, I'd like you to check earlier when we say check it out. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and thus the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 13 of the amended bill. I also ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments? If not, then we are moving on to the third reading of the bill and we find that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, an urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 26.9.2013, which you received on the e-clup. Two amendments, namely the amendment of the coalition and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, are tabled under Article 2. We will first vote on the amendment of the coalition; if this amendment is adopted, the second amendment will be irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment of the coalition has been adopted; this has made the second amendment irrelevant. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. Do qualified applicants intend to table an amendment? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to third reading. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th paragraph of the agenda, which is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Insurance, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is for decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We are voting on the bill. Excuse me, Mr. Vizjak, would you like to explain your voice? Anyone else? I open the possibility of applying for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Richard Branisel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I can point out that we will support this law. We note that this is a welcome solution, one of the anti-crisis measures that we urgently need at this time, including in terms of the resolution of the banking sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much. On behalf of the NSI Group, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I repeat what we have already said in the position of the Group of Members. The new Financial Insurance Act is actually a mistrust to our judicial system. The matter referred to in this bill does not belong to this law at all. This doesn't belong in the financial area, this case, this stuff should go into the justice system. And I'm sure something also says that there were no representatives of the Ministry of Finance at the plenary session, two hours ago, when we discussed this law. It's a question of questionable solutions, so we're going to go against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u67	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support this amendment of the Financial Insurance Act, in fact we will oppose it. However, according to the applicant, the novelty is intended to accelerate or increase the effectiveness of the cashing or real estate sale procedures held by the bank and resulting from the flag of non-aligned borrowers. This is the possibility of notary real estate sales and the question is asked, because this is a mortgage relationship and as a result we are solving the matter in the Financial Insurance Act. The legal and legal service has warned that the substance of this law does not fall under this law and interferes with the law of law, resulting in disorder and lack of transparency in the legal system, which also reduces legal certainty. The problem is also that some valuations of these properties are being carried out under this law and that we will have several valuations of these properties. One will be the evaluation that the European Commission will not last confirm when the bad claims are transferred to the Bad Claims Management Company. This will be a new evaluation, so we doubt the effectiveness and achievement of the objective and purpose of this law. There are also other formal legal issues raised by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion and on which amendments, the coalition amendments have not adequately regulated relations. We believe that this is one law that follows the principle that the objective is to devote the means, that is to say, no matter how we want to achieve a specific goal. This is not allowed in some normal state of law. Therefore, on the one hand, from a purely formal point of view, and on the other hand, doubts about the effectiveness of this solution, we will not support the proposed novel in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Even Mr. Bogovich on behalf of the SLS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u69	In the opinion of the Group, we have already said and expected some clarification from the Ministry of Finance. The whole range of warnings issued by the Legal and Legal Service and the matter which interferes with this Law on Financial Insurance, which is more than obvious in this law, and, on the other hand, does not interfere with certain entitlements where creditors, on the other hand, are also debtors, and in particular, as has already been said, is moving from the judicial system a set of things where things should be concluded by the courts, bankruptcy managers in the hands of the notary and in the hands of bank value holders, who will appreciate this property with which loans are set up. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the adoption of this law should be more prudent. It all happened with some great haste this week, on Monday, a proposal, on Tuesday evening by a competent committee, today without the presence of the Ministry of Finance, and without any real debate, adoption. These are the reasons why we simply cannot support this law in the Slovenian People's Party, and we will oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this marriage. The reasons also stem from the report of the working body, where the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service warned that there were no further inconsistencies with the amendments tabled by the coalition. It has also been pointed out that conceptually these things do not belong to this law and that the structure of the law is also at stake. Moreover, this institution's introduction is not reflected in the title and the amendment of the law is not appropriate. What the coalition is doing in this case is, in fact, a conscious legalisation of a new disorder in the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. As the plagues of a new disorder become conscious, all the problems, problems, inconsistencies, transparency and all the other things involved are also triggered. It is interesting that the Commission no longer reacts to anti-corruption and does not warn the Government or the National Assembly that what needs to be done in a more calm manner as well as in the right way. This way, in this case, is unworthy and inappropriate. With such large pre-war systemic derogations, including alerted constitutional inconsistencies, then I can only assume that the coalition will consciously decide to commit an act that has been repeatedly or repeatedly read to the previous coalition. There's no reason for me to vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Another desire is to discuss or explain the voice. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I won't support this marriage either. In fact, a very large question arises why such an urgency. Such an emphasis on such an important topic when it comes to the real estate of banks or assets that the borrowers have lent to banks for loans, and on those loans that are likely to never be repaid. These are loans that are not being repaid and whose maturity has already exceeded 90 days. It was interesting to get information from the Finance Committee, in fact, the Bank of Slovenia's data that the collateral for these loans was EUR 22 billion, of which 77% of the properties were real estate, meaning real estate guarantees, meaning in other words that 17 billion of the properties were essentially held by banks, and these banks run these properties at book value. The question is what will be the real value, what will be the value that will actually sell these properties. And that will be the real market value and will in fact depend on the entire banking system, including recapitalisation. These are quick solutions introduced by this law that are not well thought out and should therefore be adopted in accordance with the normal procedure. That's why I won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Aljoša Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Of course, the claim that by this law we are expressing non-trust to the judiciary is not true, since the judiciary will still have the opportunity to implement the procedures for the redemption of mortgages by adopting this novel. But when you don't support this novel, you're basically expressing your distrust to notary offices by not letting them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u76	Explanation of voice, not controversy with the other side [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u77	In order to ensure that the shorter and more effective procedure introduced by the law would lead to faster cashing. [[...]] To talk a lot about the wrong form.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u78	Explanation of voice, not a comment of the opposite party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u79	You're talking about the form of the law, and no one's talking about the content of the law. I'll explain why I agree with the content of the law. What do we gain by supplementing the Financial Insurance Act? Speeding up the cashing-up of insurance that banks also have, even to a future bad bank. This will improve liquidity and the related solvency. Banks will acquire the necessary funds to re-credit the economy. The need for recapitalisation will be reduced and consequently the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be less burdensome. The legal proceedings, the implementation of mortgages will no longer be prolonged, so that they will be reduced and also better affected by the increased valuation of real estate. Better valuation of real estate will already be shown in the burden tests of banks, and therefore it is also an urgent procedure. With the introduction of notary sales, banks will proceed more quickly to cash out mortgages, in one word, the proposed changes will contribute substantially to the goal of returning funds for bank resolution to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we are going to vote on the law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 33. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 14th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Construction Products under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The legislature or the government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision or a vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and the Supplementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act. We're moving to third reading. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision. I inform you that I have not been informed that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would have made the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 under the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision. Before making a decision, Mr Šircelj, perhaps someone else, would like to explain his voice. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The law amending the Law on the implementation of the budget introduces the so-called repositories of transactions, in other words, the State will be able to commit itself on the basis of the repositories of transactions. What exactly is this? That's two sales. For the first sale, securities shall be sold at a price such as a thousand at the same time as the first sale is made or signed by a contract, or a contract for another sale shall be signed, where the same persons agree to buy this paper, but not more at the same price, usually more expensive than those interest rates. In this way, Slovenia will be indebted to the Republic of Slovenia for a billion euro and will not register this debt in the accounts that it must otherwise keep on debt. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such debt is unacceptable, but it can mean that this solution is because Slovenia is no longer normally in a position to be in charge in international markets. That is probably why this decision has already been taken in the Government to adopt this law by emergency procedure, which means an extremely fast procedure. In fact, in such a case all the legal provisions from all angles of view cannot be examined, but in particular what this means for Slovenia's indebtedness. We have different information, but already under the Budget Implementation Act, it is possible to entrust Slovenia with 7 billion in the following year. The question is whether this can be sustained. Today there are figures in the public sector that need at least 5 billion to be recovered from banks in Slovenia. I think it is necessary to stop recklessly indebtedness by extremely high interest rates. On the basis of these interest rates, we will pay 944 million interest in the following year. We will continue to pay them and they will be paid by the next generations. I do not think that we have the moral right, Members and Members of Parliament to adopt solutions to which we owe future generations and affect their future. We will therefore vote against this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I'm opening up the possibility of a report because I can see there's more than one wish. You're applying on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u83	We will also vote against this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. It is our deep conviction that we are now voting on things that will make our heads hurt, not just us, but also our children and our grandchildren. This is a very important area of indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Republic of Slovenia, we are still talking today about the amount of public debt, which is approximately moderate, as far as height is concerned, and it is entirely impossible, given the interest rates that Slovenia can owe today. As we know, they have regulated democracies with a stable financial system entrusted to them by the international environment, and this interest rate is between 3% and 4%. Slovenia, too, had in the past approximately equal conditions for this long-term indebtedness until recently. As we know, in the last year this interest rate has risen rapidly between 6% and 7%, it is to an area and the amount that is marked by the fact that the financial markets no longer trust it that these are economically unstable countries. Even after the last two tasks, we had to go beyond the European borders. A year ahead of us is 2014, the year in which Slovenia is reprogramming about €3 billion in debt, the year in which, according to a proposal from the coalition, a good billion deficits are expected to be created, I fear that this figure is too small, and according to these figures, which are now coming, the number for the repair of the bank hole is about 5 billion. This means that Slovenia is in charge of rivers in the following year and is writing down the bad 10 billion euros. The EUR 3 billion we have had so far, at about 4% interest rates, which cost us 120 million euros, in this way we are doing, we are trading for 10 billion, which will cost us between 600 and 700 million euros a year. This is a 500-million interest hike next year. And what we are doing is suicide for the Slovenian economy, for Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers. Such shortcuts, which we now want to use, are only a short-term path to hell, and therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we strongly oppose this and we think that we should be very serious and determined to deal with this big problem, which we obviously do not know ourselves, we do not want and we do not want to deal with.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will strongly oppose the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. We citizens and citizens in the elections have not signed the power to be indebted to them, their children, their grandchildren and their grandchildren. Once we have to put an end to this debt, the foolish debt, the destructive debt, or we have no solution. In fact, by this law, those who vote in favour have all the freedom to give the green light to so-called rap jobs, this is a new instrument with which the government can easily repay up to one billion. Let us consider, colleagues and colleagues, whether you can really vote without a heart, we vote in favour. We will oppose, because we do not want to strangle the countryside, we do not want to stifle the Slovenian economy, we do not want to reduce pensions, which will bring debt, we do not want to reduce social states, which will bring debt. It will definitely bring. That's why we're against you and I invite you to follow us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u87	Your Honor! It is very easy for us to make decisions that add to our burden — not this, future generations. Look, already in the budgets for the next two years, interest will increase to pay off Slovenia's debt already around one billion euros. That is to say, at €8 billion in revenue to the budget, we will have 1 billion in interest each year, more each year, because we owe ourselves because we have a deficit, even in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me which system is transferred in such a way that already more than 10% of the revenue is devoted to the payment of interest, rather than to the reprogrammes of existing loans, when we have to re-indebt ourselves again and again. This novelty of the law invents a new instrument that is not included in public debt. And the problem is, in some hidden way, it increases the burden of future generations. Here we also reflect this novel with a combination of government forecasts that it does not see a further way of consolidating public finances by limiting costs or rationalising the functioning of the country, but sees a solution in higher taxes, additional burdens for those who are to cover this gap in the future. I'm sure it's the wrong way to die on meals, actually some kind of suicide. And this new instrument, because of its relatively considerable opacity, only allows for such a path, it's kind of a hanging rope. Your Honor, I'm going to object to this, and think about where you're taking this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we continue to play the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This is now the second law we have on the agenda, which legitimizes intransparency, intransparency and makes life on a large foot. In doing so, I note that the technology of the work of the Pahor government is continuing, as uncontrolled employment is taking place, and this law continues to be unsupervised. The acquisition of guarantees for two failed banks shall continue unsupervised acquisition of guarantees and consequences. Nor does what this law stipulates that these obligations which the government will assume are not included in the debt table mean much. With the warning that Slovenia is a problem in recent elections in Germany, by Angela Merkel, the matter is being cemented even more. Slovenia is a problem because we do not respect and do not do as we tell us in the legal order. We do not work in such a way that things are transparent and transparent, but are done in such a way that nothing can be seen, that nothing can be followed, that obligations are taken over. A few weeks ago, when the Ministry of oxygen gave to the economy, those difficulties or solutions, it is clear that we will first experience oxygen for the Ljubljana Municipality or the implementation of the agreement between the Government and the Ljubljana Municipality. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] for the budget. [[...]] Only then, if anything, will there be the implementation of oxygen for the economy, the measures proposed for the economy. There's perfect chaos in sight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you. Of course I'll support the marriage. Debt over repo will be recorded as any other debt. While the law mentions that the bonds issued are not considered as debt but that the bonds are used solely for insurance purposes in this case, while the debt entered into by the repo is normally recorded as any other debt. Thus, we do not allow any additional State debt to cross a certain border. Yes, this government continues to be in debt, as continued by Pahor’s government and Janša’s government. Both governments were in debt. The government is also continuing with the introduction of new instruments, including the government of Janša, which introduced the so-called Coco bonds, and we know what happened to them this year. We are also not very innovative here. We are therefore not introducing any new debt, but we are allowing a new species which will allow for significantly lower interest rates, so I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Opening login options. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u93	I'll support the marriage. It is clear that the opposition is exercising its parliamentary role, and I fear that in this case, too, it is in a somewhat incorrect way. This law does not provide for additional indebtedness, but defines the mechanisms for the implementation of the budget for this year and next year. As my colleague Pavlišič said very clearly, the use of the mechanism of so-called repos transactions means the possibility for us to come to funding the budget at significantly cheaper rates, as are now available to us in the issuance of standard, normal government bonds. In this respect, it is only necessary to welcome the Government's efforts to achieve cheaper ways of financing the state budget, but it does not mean, at least not this law, a new additional debt, but the realisation of the debt that we have already defined by the adopted budgetary documents, which, at least when the basic budget for this year was adopted, was actually defined by the Janša government. In fact, this also coincides with the framework adopted in February this year by the Tato Yanševa government. Everything else is part of a political battle, and I fear that this political bias in assessing individual measures is once again drawing us away from the serious ability to face the real situation and the difficult challenges facing the country. To that end, I would like us to forget the political battle and to take the measures that the country needs to come out of the crisis and to remedy all the huge problems that are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this law because Article 2 states that the issue of own debt securities, which are temporarily transferred to a person financing the deficit and so on, does not count to the extent of the country's indebtedness. And then this continues, which means, to the extent that the State owes it does not count. This may not even be the most substantive issue. The substantive question is, ladies and gentlemen, whether the state can still be in charge in international markets and whether this is not the perimeter of this debt, because at this point international monetary markets would not give us more money or give it at an interest rate that would actually be unacceptable to anyone. And that is now a vital question of why to support or not support this law. If we are talking today about the amount of the debt and if we are already taking into account some of the information that says how much the banks will cost – and according to some information it would cost more than five billion, then pre-indebtedness is actually a suicide for the country, because such interest rates cannot be passed on by any economy. Nor can any economy, if the state is in debt at such interest rates, be indebted abroad at a lower interest rate. And that's what we do wrong if we support this marriage. And by this we owe future generations, for which we do not have a moral or any other right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll come by in that sense, too. Look, now it's not a question of indebtedness, I think there's another question ahead – the question of what is the direction of economic policy. In the direction of economic policy, governments are deciding how much they trust us. On the basis of what and how much they trust us, Slovenia gets such and such benefits on its five, ten or two-year bonds. This government is going in the direction that foreign investors do not trust us and any debt at this time, transparent or untransparent, whether it is published in documents or not, is suicide for the Slovenian economy. Debt over 6% or 7% – at this point there is no way back, we owe ourselves, we continue to collapse this system. When the collapse of this system comes, we'll sell out literally that family silver literally for free. We're not aware of this, we're in a spiral, we're in a circle where we should be wondering when we're going to sell, when we're going to fix the banks and when we're going to make this country more competitive. Once we've done the first three homework assignments, then we can talk about borrowing. If this homework is missing, those funds or all those investors who lend us money are skeptical. And because they're skeptical, they're between 6% and 7%. This is the whole economy and the whole situation of this country. Therefore, such an untransparent debt as we are about to bring into law is of course not a question. The question is, what is the economic direction of your government? This is the question that foreign investors will give us more confidence that the next debt will be much more favourable. If it is much more favourable, we have a greater chance of a breakthrough and we are somehow avoiding this European rescue of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a vote on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 43 votes against 32. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Disabled Persons after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Mag. Tonin, please, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u99	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! New Slovenia will oppose this decision that the law is inappropriate for further consideration and I ask you to vote similarly. If most will vote against, then we will give the law an opportunity to return to the committee, to correct even the things that disturb you and to see the adoption of the law come to pass. In yesterday's debate, we were able to hear that in this law, in accordance with the instructions of the Legal and Legislative Service, we have corrected all the nomotechnic errors. I am convinced that there are also no substantive reasons to oppose this law because it is one way or another that those beneficiaries will have to prove that they have real and real health consequences from the 1991 war. Therefore, every fear in your species that too much time has passed since that war is completely meaningless because these people will not get these rights in their eyes but only on the basis of medical certificates. I will therefore say that, on behalf of those who left their health for this independent country in 1991, I ask you to vote against the conclusion today that the law is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 32. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 32.]] This is said to have been the decision taken by the National Assembly and therefore the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since no amendments to the supplementary amendment and additions to the Rules of Procedure have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision. I inform you that I have not been warned that due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for amendments to the rules of procedure would be inconsistent. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, two thirds of the Members present must vote in order to adopt amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on the Agreement on the International Carriage of Goods by Road. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. He was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the Committee. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, it is on the confirmation of the official cleared text of the Road Traffic Law. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving to a decision on the decision, which reads as follows: The official text on road traffic rules is confirmed. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. In this context, we turn first to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. First of all, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. The first is Mr Jani Möderndorfer. He's quitting. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation and Mr Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! It is up to us whether Vladimir Pegan and Matjaž Juhart will remain a member of the FIHO Council or not. Some one - year - olds are being pursued to get rid of them in one way or another. Here I must point out that, according to the information obtained by the Administrative Unit of Ljubljana for these two persons, it has been shown that when they are told that they were represented, this certificate shows that this is not the case. I also have before me a copy from the ICPES portal, according to the portal of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records, where it has been shown that on Day D, that is 15. 3. 2012, they were not represented or authorised by one or another disability organisation. I must also point out that, as early as November of last year, the complainant was also decided against the appointment of Mr Juhart and Mr Pegan to the FIHO Foundation Council, according to the Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on behalf of the Republic, brought an action against both persons, dismissed the action. All public records show that what both members of the Foundation are aware of is not true. Later, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption may have been involved in this discharge process and even in the end. In her name, this procedure was led by Bečir Kečanovic. The Commission, by means of several letters, drew the attention of the National Assembly to the inappropriate conduct of Members who had decided on these two appointments, had stumbled into decision-making and had also accused them of some kind of corrupt behaviour. Those opinions, which we received more, also included those who did not vote on it at all and so on. The Anti-Corruption Commission has made certain requirements to the National Assembly, but they do not have any basis in the actions previously listed, nor in the public records, both the Ljubljana Administrative Unit and the IJPES, nor have the Administrative Court attached those claims. It was also pointed out at the meeting of the Commission on Elections that the National Assembly did not have any appropriate Commission document to prevent corruption, since the institutions should be decided by the Commission's Chamber for the Prevention of Corruption, composed of the President and the two Deputys. In this case, such a document was not forwarded to the National Assembly. So it's some kind of official's document. At the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, not at the last, but at the fore-end, the First Deputy Mr Praprotnik said that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption to this act by Mr Kečanovic would not define itself and would not define itself. This is, in our opinion, a kind of systematic pursuit against the two elected members of the FIHO Foundation, and in the documents available to us, we find no basis to attach to the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, which has in fact been written and sent to the National Assembly by way of a Senate or a majority decision in the National Assembly. We will be voting against this proposal to resolve both members of the FIHO Foundation Council, as Mr Pegan and Mr Juhart have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first one is Mr. Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, this point will go through very quickly, but I think that the issue that has taken place on the Commission's mandate and in relation to the Commission to prevent corruption is so important that more should be said in this regard. A fully established procedure for the appointment of members of the FIHO Council has been turned into a direct accusation by the Commission for the prevention of corruption for Members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission after appointment at the meeting that these Members have acted corruptly. So Members and Members of the Mandate-Election Commission were known to be corrupt. See, by letter dated 22. 4. Mr Bečir Kečanovic sent us a letter in which he wrote: "... the actual situation found is justified to conclude that the officials, members and members of the MVK in the process of proposing and appointing members of the FIHO Council have violated the duty of acting, as they have proposed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the appointment of Matjaž Juhart and Vladimir Pegan in contravention of...... the themes and these indents that I will not be too long. Of course, then followed the very sharp response of the National Assembly or the Mandate-Electorial Commission. This is unacceptable for Members to mark us as being corrupt if we have voted on someone who has been proposed. When the Commission received a response from the National Assembly or the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, there was a reversal. But then we got a letter from the Commission to prevent corruption, where in a way we're not going to say I'm sorry, but they're explaining that they didn't think it was just that. But listen, this document was public and we were accused of corruption. And now they realize that it is not true that we did not act corruptly, in a letter dated 15. Seven. 2013 Now we really need to ask ourselves, who is the Commission responsible for preventing corruption, so long and late that it can adopt some opinions. But the main problem here is that this opinion was adopted by one individual with the Commission to prevent corruption. That's not what the Senate decided. And he directly accused us of corruption. If we look at this whole story, we can see that these two gentlemen are guilty. And today, if you confirm the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, you will do them wrong. The National Council of Disability Organisations of Slovenia has issued a legal opinion. The legal opinion was delivered by the Institute of Public Administration. Under this is signed by Professor Rajko Pirnat, where he made it clear that there was nothing wrong with the appointment and that the gentlemen met the conditions. Before you press the "for" button, ask yourself if you are not doing these two gentlemen a wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to draw attention to two things when considering this proposal for a solution. First of all, to unacceptable behaviour in the National Assembly, when the discharge procedure was processed on the basis of the Commission's not adopted decision to prevent corruption, but on the basis of a single letter. I think this is a big mistake that all Members have made, and so do I. Given that we have found that this has not been decided by the Senate, I think that Members of the National Assembly could remedy this error by today's vote. Secondly, I must point out, in some way, that the Commission's behaviour to prevent corruption, which allows for the sending of such letters to the National Assembly as an institution, is unacceptable. I find it unacceptable the Commission's action to prevent corruption not to make this letter on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the constitutional position of the National Assembly or the members of the National Assembly. In fact, in this letter it was in some way written that the Members we have decided on this appointment have acted in a corrupt way. At the same time, I would just like to point out that it is not the Commission to prevent corruption that will impose on members of the National Assembly how to vote. We have a special provision in the Rules of Procedure, we also have a special provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and on this basis we also act. If the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption suspects 19 members of the Mandate-Election Commission who voted on the list of candidates and writes there that we have abandoned the mandatory conduct which has such and such signs, then the Commission should treat us individually in order to prevent corruption. In this case, it's a collective charge. However, I would like to inform the public, as well as the Anti-Corruption Commission, that I did not have any contact with the members or candidates elected at that time, nor with other elected candidates, prior to the choice of candidates, when deciding who I would support on the Mandate-Election Commission for the FIHA Council. No personal contact. Therefore, after this salary, I find it somewhat inappropriate and unpleasant that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption by means of such letters, serves to discredit the persons for whom it has obtained processing on the Mandate-Election Commission, as well as those persons who we have decided on at the time of appointment and when we have then decided or will then decide on this discharge proposal. I think that the institutions of the rule of law, including fair countries, should act in such a way that they are not needlessly discredited persons — not those who decide, not those who are in the process. These two persons, whom we will now decide, are frowned upon about a year after the National Assembly. Even a year later, I think their name is unjustifiably mentioned in the media. And those who experience such a tour in this way are not comfortable. Not them, not their family members. And to those who judge, evaluate, write judgment and charge, I would say that they should pay particular attention and sensitivity in doing so. Let the actions evaluate if it is a crime to process it, and let all suspected things leave them until they are defined and determined, for their soul, not to destroy people in length and thread.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, by which the members of Matjaž Juhart and mag are to be released. Vladimir Pegan. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 30. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Koper District Court. The Council of Justice submitted a proposal to the Assembly on the election of Anica Posega Čeč to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no speakers for the debate, so we are moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Anica Posega Čeč to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 51 votes against, none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision. However, we decide on the proposal for a decision to be taken. Natasa Jersic discharges the duties of a member of the State Audit Commission. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, 75 were voted against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. First of all, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. First of all, I would point out that Mr Medved was already a member of the RTV Supervisory Board and that he was relieved of his active support for the reports of the Supervisory Board, which the Committee of the National Assembly found to be unworthy. As a result, the former Governing Council was dissolved and appointed a new one. This means that we are, in fact, repeating now or repeating a staff proposal that has been found to have failed to carry out its work in the RTV Supervisory Council as expected. This proposal was voted on by the current coalition's parliamentary groups, in addition to the SDS, SLS, NSI and the National List and DeSUS. That the work of Radiotelevision authorities has not been good, they also indicate audit reports that are slowly coming on the day. All evidence suggests that there was an untransparent, unintended use of funds. In the case in question, it was then possible to sell Eutelsat shares which, instead of being spent on development, were used to cover the error made in Mrs Shirca's mandate when she lost the RTV referendum. At that time, part of these shares of Eutelsat were sold and intended to cover the loss. Instead of losing, there was profit. And this profit is the former President of the Jernej Pikalo Programme Council, without the decision of the body, initialed and also awarded the Director and some others on RTV. The fact that the work of the RTV authorities was not in compliance with the legislation is more than obvious. The return of persons to the RTV authorities involved in these matters is, in fact, very, very problematic. I would like to draw attention to another entry in the Finance Journal, which was published this year at the end of April, which stated that information is also leaking from RTV. Mr Bear, who was a member of a commission, ordered a legal opinion. With this legal opinion, only three persons are available from this information: Mr Medved, Director Filli and Mr Filli's assistant. This legal opinion, which was commissioned by RTV for its basis, also came to the public or to unauthorized persons. I think you will be voting today on a human resources proposal which, in our view, should not have confidence because of the activities that have taken place. It is a public institution of special importance and the appointment of persons who have not performed their tasks is probably inappropriate. We will not support this human resources proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We will decide to replace the dismissed member of the Supervisory Board and comply with the established parliamentary practice that the proposal belongs to the one who has also proposed the discharge member of the Supervisory Board. We are discussing the proposal of Positive Slovenia for a member of the Supervisory Board for mag. The bear matjaja. In this regard, several statements have already been made at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which I would like to contradict in the opinion of the Group. It is written, I will read from the magnetogram two references: "But the procedure that was carried out in the National Assembly did not oppose the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and gave the procedure legitimacy." The second point is, "It has not been established that the case was illegal...", it is proceedings before a court, I skip a part of the recital and end with this "... the court found that there was nothing wrong in terms of legality or violation of rights." These two indications are necessary to explain the argument why the biggest opposition party will not support mags. Matjaža Bear as a member of the Supervisory Board. And now I have to say so. If it were a political ignorant person, then I could say it was an untrue fact. In this case, however, it is not the first time that such a statement has been made, so it would be better to use another word for such claims. They're usually called lies. In fact, in the resolution of the members of the RTV Supervisory Board, Slovenia in the National Assembly on 26 September 2012 was an illegal political solution in the direction of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is evidenced, inter alia, by the fact that in the National Assembly a member of the Miho Klun Supervisory Council from the SDS Janšev, the government has reappointed itself to the Supervisory Board. In doing so, the SDS did not interfere with the fact that Miha Klun was dissolved in the National Assembly, nor with the fact that Miha Klun, as a municipal official of the political party in the municipality of Ribnica, did meet the legal conditions for membership in the supervisory body of the public Radio Television. That the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board was illegal and unconstitutional, they found independent legal opinions of the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana – this institution was cited a little earlier as a credible institution, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The claim that the court found that the discharge was lawful was imprecise. For formal reasons, the Court rejected certain lawsuits of dismissed supervisors without taking a substantive substantive decision. On formal complete actions, however, the Administrative Court has not yet ruled or we can say that the SDS prejudges the decision of the independent judiciary. In order to further argue the position of the Group of Social Democrats, let me point out that neither the Positive Slovenia nor the Social Democrats agreed to such behaviour when the supervisors were dismissed, and our Group of Members then called on the President of the National Assembly to draw up a legal opinion on this matter. This request was submitted by the President of the National Assembly to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and obtained this opinion. And since I have been reported for discussion, I will continue my discussion with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service to prove that the claim that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has attached itself to the conduct of the coalition at that time has been rejected. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. You know that when – I will be a more direct, respected fellow Member – the lie repeats twice, three times, four times, then it becomes the truth, and that is such a truth that even journalists eventually believe and begin to write it. But when they write it down, there's a problem, because this same customer uses this same material to call in investigative commissions, extraordinary meetings and so on. And this is this perpetuum cell that revolves in infinity. In short, they've become experts in the creation of half-truths and come to what we don't even want, and that's how we do it. When we proposed, in accordance with the law, to the Mandate-Electorial Commission of the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board, to mention that this problem of this member of the Supervisory Board has led so far as we can talk today only about absurdity. In this supervisory council, as my predecessor has said, Mr Cloone was also a member of the Supervisory Board. And I must say that this respected Mr Cloone is back in this same supervisory council today, even the President of the Supervisory Board on a proposal from the Government, and this is the Supervisory Council, for which this same party has proposed to be fully dissolved, because he was doing the wrong thing. But we have to be very careful here. In this new supervisory board, the Court of Auditors has rediscovered irregularities similar to those found in the previous supervisory board. Who would understand that? The SDS Party has decided to make its own manoeuvres and its jumps to the goals that are to come. I am sure that the vote given today by Positive Slovenia to the candidate Mr Medved will be given mainly for the following reasons. First of all, because he's an experienced economist, he's an expert on RTV. And what's most important is that since his establishment in 2010, when he was sitting in the supervisory council, he has always pointed out all the mistakes and shortcomings in the development funds, the harmful employment contracts and the discounts that were created by advertising. And in the end, he was released for punishment. Can you think? But that's just the way it is. We're used to it. Therefore, it is practical and best that the same person who warned of this should come back as a supervisor to this public office and finish his work. This is that, at a high level of expertise and knowledge, he continues and does good for the public service, which is also the task of the Governing Council. Of course, I expect in the next debate what is normal, all rejections of something, I did not say right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate. Mr. Möderndorfer, you have the first word and you can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u113	It's no big deal. I'm glad I've made it a little worse for you to wake up. We'll keep going. What's important is this. Mr. Tanko fell into his own trap. He drew attention to the illegality and incompetence of the member to the Mandate-Electorial Commission. In fact, we have reached the point where we have to start to wonder what is really in our interest. Whether it is in our interest to finally leave it to the supervisory world to do our job, or whether we will be setting our own, ours, yours, and I do not know what else, with only one price, to have a feeling – beware – that we will have the feeling that we are in control of national television in our hands. This seems very rude to me, especially because it has to be repeated again, and this is that the member proposed by the SDS party back in this same supervisory council, Mr Miha Klun, in the supervisory world, was doing his work in the supervisory council because it is wrong, according to them. I really wonder where this limit is, where we will stand, so that we can apologize to the Slovenian public, that we are all already making fun of each other from this public institution. On the one hand, we take their money first, then we say they're doing the wrong thing, and then we end up giving these same people back to this control council because we think it's the only thing right. I am personally convinced that Mr Tanko unfortunately must carry out a political task, which is to defend the correctness of the irregular and to keep spinning in his own circle, how this could lead to the end. I have to say that I am actually sad that we spend so much time on something that, by virtue of our duty and competence, the supervisory council should carry out entirely on its own. I believe that you, Mr Tanko, will at least imagine for a moment and perhaps see your mistake, because I still hope, I am an optimist in nature, and you will eventually decide and convince your colleagues that the Supervisory Council is the one who has to carry out his task and leave them alone, and that you will convince them and perhaps even support this proposal. This would also show you how much for the good and successful operation of Radiotelevision Slovenia. I expect you to support the proposal, this also applies to the entire assembly, and in some ways also show your visibility, the size of how to correct the mistake back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you. Besides, I don't know what order I'm in now, because my name has been released and is in sequence, Mr Tanko, but I understand your decision. It was quoted that the decision of the Committee, which was then also led by the author of the RTV Act, was that the decision of this Committee, which said, "because the report on the functioning of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board in 2011 was incomplete and misleading", was the basis for collective resolution of the Supervisory Board. So that was the basis. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we read, inter alia, the answer to the question whether the members of the Supervisory Board can be resolved on the basis of this Decision. The opinion states that there is no doubt that the reasons for the termination of the term of office of the members and members of the Supervisory Board cannot be classified as grounds for the termination of the term of office of the members of the Supervisory Board laid down by law. This is said to be an incomplete report by the Supervisory Board, which is not justified in law as a reason for discharge. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, two judgments of the Constitutional Court are also cited and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service refers to this. The explicit requirement that the reasons for the dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board by law should be further laid down, which precludes the use of legal analogy or even political discretion beyond the legitimate grounds. Thus, the incomplete report is not legally established, and here the then coalition took a right that should not be taken into its own hands. The last paragraph of this opinion: "Let us therefore consider that the early termination of the term of office of members of the Supervisory Board of the Republic of Slovenia is permissible only within the framework of the legal pre-determined constitutionally permissible grounds for termination of the term of office and that the proposal for a decision is not in line with our opinion." Where the SDS now sees that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service legalised or gave legitimacy to the decision of the current Committee on Culture, among other things, I do not know. Nor is it true that it supported the possibility of a solution to the decision taken. In particular, I should point out that the embarrassment is that only a few can be found among the reasons or reasons for the resolution, but all those who are recorded refer to individual discharge, not to the resolution of the supervisory board as a collective body. However, the fact is that it is among the conditions for who can become a member of the Supervisory Board, given that Parliamentary parties are given the opportunity to appoint five members of the Supervisory Board on a proposal from political parties and that, under the RTV Act, article 26 of the RTV Act, it is clear who should not also be a member of the Supervisory Board. And among these, he is a member of the political parties' bodies. At the time, the SDS argued that their statutes determine who is a member of the political parties' bodies. This is an interesting thesis because when something is blocked, then it is always in the opinion of a political party, for example, at the Vienna Centre for Human Rights, you could say who may or may not be named. What is fundamental, the working body of the National Assembly has been misused for the illegal decision to be taken on discharge. One of the resolved members was then considered appropriate and even President, the other we are talking about today, but should not be considered appropriate. This is not acceptable to the Social Democrats and we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much. All I owe is an explanation. Of course, mag. Waste, I don't set this order, you have determined yourself in accordance with all the rules of application in force in the National Assembly. Mr. Tanko's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. We do not oppose the right of the proposer to propose his candidate. If we were to oppose this, we would probably have proposed a choice in this process, because the call was made, but we did not. According to the rules of the National Assembly, this right belongs to those who have proposed it. However, we have every right to speak about the proposed candidate and to draw attention to all the things that we think are not good and not appropriate. There was, in the introduction, a number of reasons why we oppose this candidate. No one has denied, nor has the proposer or the one defending this candidacy, that Mr Medved has not acted on the RTV Supervisory Board, which has submitted to the National Assembly an incomplete and misleading report on the state of RTV in the area covered by the Supervisory Committee. That's a fact. All we are now asking is how a responsible owner or a responsible proposer or one who appoints someone to do so can continue to tolerate the incomplete and misleading reporting of persons appointed to certain bodies, such as RTV. I think that's a very big problem. Secondly, once you see Mr Klun as a member of the local authority, including your candidate in the supervisory board, in what was resolved, he was a member of the local authority. Ma'am, look, I think it was called Lesnik, if he remembers correctly, he was. He was, I think, from Radeč or somewhere, from the Warrior, like there, he was from that end. So you had a candidate in the same world, control or software that also met all these criteria that you read to us. You can check it out. And one more thing when you're reading Mr. Clown. Mr Clown was the only one to have delivered a negative separate opinion to the National Assembly and also to the Programme Council on the report of the RTV Supervisory Board. He was the only one. That's what you have in the records of the National Assembly. You can check it out. I hope you checked that out. I think that in cases where we know how some of the people who were on a proposal of trust, who were appointed by the National Assembly to certain bodies, fulfilled or failed, then I think that, when we oppose it, we give it only the legitimacy. We do not support candidates, we do not support appointments, we do not support staff proposals, even on the same functions or in the same body, because it has been found that these criteria have not been met, that the candidate's tasks have not been fulfilled, or that he has knowingly supported the solutions or proposals of the reports which the National Assembly, the highest legislative institution, is deceiving. That's what I think is extremely incorrect. I can tell myself that I will oppose this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Slovenia as a member to the Supervisory Board of RTV. Matjaž Bear. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Justice. The proposal was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Aljoš Jerič as Vice-President of the Committee on Justice. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of Mr Horvat's mission regarding measures to get out of the crisis. Here you are, Mr Joseph Horvat, on behalf of the Group of Members, you have an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just for a little while. I must say that I was satisfied with the dialogue with the Prime Minister when I raised the question at the beginning of this meeting and talked about the government's measures to revive the Slovenian economy. The beginning was good, it was good to hear what the Prime Minister said. However, then I was disturbed by its implementation below, when it did not actually say any number. Look, I come from the economy and there's always a business plan in the economy. I know that the government is not working on a business plan, it is working on a political plan, but it must only know that in due course it will create, for example, not a government, but an economy, so many new jobs and so on. For example, I expected that the measures taken by this government would be such that we would get the necessary 60,000 jobs, which we both agreed on, I would expect, for example, by 2023, because I know that this cannot be done overnight. My colleagues and colleagues have therefore disturbed me that the Prime Minister has said, I quote, "to seek for economic growth the least negative measures that will allow the consolidation of public finances". Consolidation of public finances. Yeah, sure. But the measures that will be negative Since at least negative, they are also negative. [[...]] And the 338 that the government is planning to make everyone negative, and that's what worries me. And colleagues and colleagues, I think this is the topic that we should talk about some new concept of saving Slovenia, the Slovenian economy here. The previous item was the call together, let's do something together, the whole Parliament. And I don't know when that's going to happen, I don't know who's going to call us to agree on positive measures. We are all calling for a faster implementation of the reforms. Where are the reforms? That's what Dr. King says. That's what Merklov says. But where are the reforms? That's what I'm worried about! And all citizens and citizens, when I talk to them, kind of demand, "let's make a deal already." In this direction, my procedural proposal was made to hold a debate at the next meeting on measures to promote the economy on reforms, on a new, better concept for the Slovenian economy. Me and Members of New Slovenia will, of course, support this procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] The decision was not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Before voting, he shall have an explanation on behalf of the Mag Group of Members. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u121	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We will support the proposed proposal in the SDS Group. We estimate that the distinguished Prime Minister has not answered those key questions. In the SDS party, we are deeply concerned about the sustainability and stability of the pension fund for our future, particularly in relation to the proposal for a new law on the Slovenian State holding company. The fact is that the Capital Company will no longer be a separate legal person, that the law does not explicitly state that the liabilities of the Capital Company for the payment of 50 million for the purposes of pension funds continue to exist, it should be pointed out that the Capital Society has so far paid around EUR 600 million into the pension fund so far, in order to delete the new law from the capital company’s assets only for the purposes of the pension fund, and last but not least, which is of great concern that the sale of 10 % of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia is to be made for the purposes of pension goods. If we have a sales package of 15 state investments, this means that about 100 million will not be directly paid into the pension register, which would also be the purpose. It is also of concern to us that the share of the Triglav Insurance Company, which was determined by the referendum, will be transferred from ZPIZ to SDH, which poses a great risk under the law that the ZPIZ will be compensated at market price in order to result in damage to the pension allowance. I am sure that here too the members of the DeSUS, who are thus fighting for pensions and who have also threatened to leave in the previous coalition, will support this public debate, of course the other parliamentary groups. It's a force issue. Above all, it is also worrying, given the Government's inconclusive replies, that the pension fund will try to maintain at the expense of tax hikes. The latest results from the budget say that only in 2014 will all taxpayers and residents of the Republic of Slovenia be burdened with 550 million new taxes. There was no clear explanation for the president in any way. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the stability and sustainability of the pension fund. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. I'm starting the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek on the question of Mr Bogovič on the negative indirect effects of government measures on the economy. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of the draft law on real estate tax, sent by Mr Zvonk Černač. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Andrej Širclj on the projected proposal for the Real Estate Tax Act. Here you are, Mr Shircelj, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I asked Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, what will be the new real estate tax, given that this tax has already been made public several times, at least the draft laws have been made public, and on the basis of these draft laws it is possible to understand that the tax obligation of all taxpayers in Slovenia will increase enormously. More specifically, I asked him to answer the question of what would be the tax base, what tax rates, what would be the tax bill. He noted that these issues were too detailed and that the tax base would be broad. In the language of the Ministry of Finance, this means that the tax base is broad, that all real estates will be taxed. All real estates — from apartments, forests, meadows, pastures, production premises, economic buildings — and this means, of course, that the property used by people will also be taxed on the income, income, wages, short-term real estate used in the business sector, the property used by farmers. And given that companies pay a tax on the income of legal persons, that farmers pay a tax on cadastral income, such double taxation is unacceptable. But it means a lot more. It means that the economy is not competitive, which means that many farms will be closed because they simply will not have enough money to exist. And given that all apartments and all houses with higher rates will also be taxed, which means that the population tax will increase by three times, in some cases by four times, this of course means additional poverty and the nationalisation of these properties if the tax administration takes over the property from which the tax was not paid. Given the specificities of the construction of these properties in Slovenia, this is, of course, unacceptable. This increases poverty also because the incomes of Slovenian families, Slovenian residents, are increasing. After all, the country will receive €275 from every resident in the budget. This means 550 million divided by the number of inhabitants. 275 Euros higher taxation [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Couch, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik's question on the question of the letter of Andrej Cuz concerning the increasing tax burdens on the Slovenian economy. Mr Chuš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by saying that we will support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, because I was myself, and I believe that the entire Slovenian public, too, is very disappointed with the response of Minister Stepišnik. The government of Alenka Bratušek practically introduces new and new taxes every week, higher burdens for the Slovenian economy, not just for households. I asked the Minister how this would affect the start of our economy. Our economy has lost 90,000 jobs in the last four years. This does not only have an impact on the economy as such, but also has implications for the functioning of the public sector, the social state and could still be mentioned. It is also worth adding that, contrary to the coalition commitment, the government has a higher burden on the economy. We have witnessed this, for example, in the value added tax, followed by cadastral incomes, more expensive vineyards, real estate taxes, and I believe that there will be something else by the end of the year. In doing so, it would be difficult for Mr Stepišnik to be referred to as Minister for the Economy, because he is sitting at a crossroads and waiting for a better tomorrow, which he will not really be. Thus, Minister Stepišnik can be referred to as the minister against the economy. The government's approach to the resolution of the Slovenian economy is not correct, is not coordinated and prevents the start of the economy. I therefore propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question sent by Franz Breznik concerning the financial implications of the proposal for the abolition of municipalities. Do you have an explanation for Mr. Breznik's vote? Here you are, Mr Breznik, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I asked Mr Virant about his announcement of the abolition of 100 Slovenian municipalities in order to bring about an economic impact in some medium-term period, which will bring about a 100 million euro reduction in these funds, saving itself in this sense. I was sort of trying to figure out the area where I'm coming from, along with the mayors, the methodology by which this saved amount of 100 million would be determined to me, and we found it missing, so I asked Minister Virant where he got the hundred million. All these small congregations employ between five and eight people, which means a hundred congregations mean fewer than 800. I also asked him if in Ljubljana, where the budget of the Ljubljana municipality is EUR 313 million, where 74,000 civil servants work daily, if this is such and such an effect, or whether it is still another interest mainly in the direction of recentralisation and the abolition or destruction of rural areas. I asked him if at this point we would start thinking about this intermediate rate, which we don't have, about the so-called establishment of the landscapes. Doesn't local self-government deserve the next evolutionary level? I think that it is very necessary, especially I see some practical aspects here. I am part of the initiative, where, together with neighbouring countries, we are somehow taking the initiative in the field of marketing. This is mainly about cross-border cooperation. These are major cross-border cooperation projects. I think this should be of interest to colleagues who come from the Italian work or from this coastal work, where everyone is telling us that they do not understand our legislation and that we have great problems in doing so. It is, of course, that some things begin to unite and bring together projects in the field of culinary, tourism. It is quite practical – it is about connecting cycling routes, connecting wine roads, for example in Styria. It may be funny, but I think that these are some effects where there could be a new plant, a new evolution in the field of local self-government, where we would acquire a whole range of new jobs, even a series of new solutions, and in particular promote the top-notch retail or man-made products of our craftsmen, where new paths would be found. That is why I think this debate would be interesting. All those who will now vote "no", I believe that you are not in favour of the next evolutionary stage of the congregations, that you do not want to talk about it, and that you want to continue to centralise this Slovenia, destroy the countryside, at least so logically I understand, based on everything I have just stated. Thank you very much and all the good, colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the question of Mr Zvonk Lah on spatial legislation. Here you are, Mr Lah, you have the floor to explain on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I asked the Minister of Infrastructure and Space when there would be a change in spatial legislation, because he already boasted at the hearing that he would change spatial legislation within six months, so that the municipalities could get to their spatial acts more easily and more quickly, as well as in the coalition contract, you have the same record. In response, the Minister acknowledged that he underestimated this topic, that he had better acquainted himself with the problem and that it was not going so fast. However, in the government programme, the change to the spatial development strategy of Slovenia has been postponed to 2014, as has the adoption of the spatial order. This, I think, is the basis for a change in spatial legislation. Following the amendment of spatial legislation, municipalities can only draw up municipal spatial plans; these procedures now last 5, 6, 7, 8 years. When will the congregations come up with real spatial plans that will enable them to plan their own development? During this time, a number of investors, when they found out how long we could have a building permit, especially where a detailed spatial plan had to be adopted, went past Slovenia. They also know that at the Ministry where they were dealt with. Besides, the government is threatening with a new tax. Instead of removing illegally built objects, they're supposed to pay you taxes. And these are huge in Slovenia. It is also a matter of paying taxes to those owners who have buildings built in dissension or with the building permit they have received. These are also huge in Slovenia. The government will again resort to some tax, because of course there is no money to dispose of these facilities. On the other hand, people or owners will not be able to legalize these facilities even if they want to. Thus, the government is not working in the direction of speeding up foreign investors in Slovenia, since it is simply not possible for them to obtain construction permits in a rapid or relatively short time. That is why I have proposed that we discuss this issue, which is very complex and extensive, in the National Assembly and help to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I ask for a little tolerance in the Chamber when we are trying to present the views of the groups of Members. Now we are moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Senko Plitčanič to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the use of representation funds and education in courts and state courts. You want an explanation of the voice? Please take the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u131	This was a mistake. The explanation was wrong. This is an old question from the Member States, obviously. Have the technical services fix it because it's one of the old questions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u132	We'll check and fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u133	My question was, in fact, about meeting the commitment signed by the judicial authorities with the Government, as a commitment to people to shorten judicial proceedings. At the same time, they made a commitment to the courts or to the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office to take on greater responsibility in the judiciary. I propose this debate mainly from this second part. At the time that they had already signed this undertaking, there had been two cases that indicated that the courts or the prosecution simply did not respect it. The first case was the case of Mrs Tobězov. You know that all the investigations then showed that she was in prison for 58 days and that that's why she's claiming 16,000 euros in compensation. There's likely to be some compensation. The court says they were fine. It was all legal. The prosecution says everything was fine, legally, Mr Furlan can even progress. They washed their hands and the citizens will pay. There's no responsibility. The other thing is the so-called Friends in bankruptcy. If formerly friends, bankruptcy administrators rewarded judges with bicycles and did not know what gifts and entertainments, this time they reversed the situation and the judges saved friends of bankruptcy managers, so that the bankruptcy administrators did not blame anything. In short, the "Friends in bankruptcy" affair ends in a way that nobody's guilty of anything. This indicates that the judiciary has no serious purpose, no serious purpose, to make order in its own kind. That is why my proposal for a debate is in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We will therefore decide on the debate you have just described. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Secretary-General of the Government of Tanja Sharabon to the question of Mr Jerovšek on the abandonment of the obligation to act and the violation of the law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. You want to explain your voice? Please, Mr Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The government has not only abandoned the mandatory conduct of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service Act, but also the Government Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since in the previous question I have been asked by Owl concerning the criminal disclosure of classified information, obviously organised, which were published in a distorted form of discreditation in the Journal of Work, the Sova did not even ask for an answer. This is what we have convinced the members of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission in Owl. Of course, it is a very big scandal that the Government is humiliating the National Assembly and Members, that the Institute of the Parliamentary Question is not even trying to get an answer. Of course, there is an immediate logical thought here that the attempt to discredit on the basis of classified data has been a conscious scandal, an ordered scandal, because it is an abuse of classified data and intelligence services for political purposes and, colleagues and fellow Members, it is one of the worst things that exist in politics. A recent resignation was made by one prime minister in the European Community. It appeared during the Secretary-General's reply that the Director of the Owl had overlooked the questionnaire. And we spoke to President Owl personally. This shows that the Prime Minister is prepared to sacrifice Director Owl because of this great scandal instead of admitting her responsibility. We have not said the last word here, but I do not think such scandalous behaviour, dangerous behaviour, irresponsible behaviour, unacceptable behaviour by Members of the Government should be allowed. I call on colleagues and colleagues to keep the government in mind under the leadership of the Prime Minister, to explore the circumstances in which the government has allowed such outrageous conduct, which is incomprehensible in the democratic world, cannot imagine that something like this could happen, and to prevent them from returning to the past when intelligence services have been prominently involved in political role, for the purposes of political discredit, human rights violations. This is the next step if we do not prevent this from happening through a general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Ivana Vogrina will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the agreement of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel on the question of mags. Ivana Vogrina in relation to the consequences and damage caused by the adopted and later established Regulation on the classification of buildings according to the difficulty of construction. You want to explain your voice? Here you are, Mr. Vogrin, an explanation in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u137	I don't have a task force. Imagine if I needed one. That's a joke. Look, here's the thing. What are the conditions for living in a given country? The economic freedom scale is talking about. In 2012 we fell for seven more cities. We are now in 76th place, somewhere between Ghana and Mongolia. Now imagine that you are in a position to have a government take you into a regulation, you are a small entrepreneur, you have workshops, and you have made an example. You pay taxes well in this country and so on. Then one government adopts a regulation so that you can legalize this by simple procedure. A month later, some other government cancels it. Now I'm not just thinking about this government, so we've been doing it for about 20 years. That's why we're here. Now imagine whether our governments really hate their citizens and their economy, not trying to ease the conditions for life and work. Would it be wrong for this novel to stay?Oh, my God! And the minister said honestly and correctly that the area he covered needed a lot of positive changes. And look, no miracle has ever happened to me, and today it will. All parliamentary questions were rejected so that there would be no debate. And I'm sure this time a miracle will happen and you'll vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of Would you like an explanation on behalf of the Group? Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u139	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We will certainly support such a proposal in the SDS Group. The situation in the Slovenian economy is worrying, the government of Alenka Bratušek places an additional burden on the economy from day to day, but not to relieve it, which was probably the great promise of this government before the show itself. Now we could say that the government of Alenka Bratusek actually increases the income of those who do not work and reduces the income of those who work. The new taxes, however, are particularly interesting in this respect also that the Minister of Economy did not answer only one question. The question was: what was the opinion of the Minister of Economy on the Oxygen document for the economy prepared by the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Employers and Association of Managers. We listened to his flat-rate lecture, which we have been listening to for some time now, and the economy has nothing to do with it. According to a member of Positive Slovenia, the president of the Committee on the Economy, that this document is a minestre and that these are the wet desires of economists, it is again worrying that the Minister of Economy has now said that these 24 measures prepared by the Economic Association are not targeted and will not support any of them. That's how it was to be understood. Interesting. I am sure that Slovenia deserves a better Minister for the Economy, and I think that it is necessary to have a broader debate on this subject, on such important issues, on such a demeaning attitude towards such a document prepared by the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Managers Association, Employers' Association.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. And that's the last question we're gonna decide. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Senko Plitčanič, to the question of mag. Majde Potrat in connection with the construction of a new prison in the public-private partnership and training of judicial officers. You want an explanation on your behalf? Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision, but I do not promise myself that the proposal will receive support. The problem will remain and I expect Minister Plitcanic to understand, however, that in addition to economists and lawyers who are familiar with the public-private partnership, he will consider and then make an appropriate decision, although I am aware that the financial situation in the country is not favourable and that answers to the question of how to resolve the spatial hardship in Slovenian prisons should be sought. Now let me, however, focus your attention on the European Day of Languages, which we have been celebrating in Europe since 2001. I congratulate all of you on this holiday and remind you that this day is intended for an in-depth reflection on the importance of multilingualism in Europe, the importance of preserving linguistic diversity and all forms of language learning. The Statistical Office states that the official languages in the European Union are 24, and 60 are regional and minority. And even the most exciting news – among 16 countries, in a study on foreign language knowledge, Slovenian nine-year-olds occupied the fifth city. So at least this day should end with something encouraging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. That wasn't the perfect explanation for the voice. But we did get some useful information. Mr. Mag. Ivan Vogrin also applied for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote in favour because I think that Mrs Potrata has raised an important question of how to deal with the public-private partnership. Personally, I do not think that the experience in Slovenia is good, that the matter should be regulated differently, that we are simply not mature for it. In the difficult times that come, we may grow old. The Iranian proverb says: Difficult times make a man. It's another big day. This question may come up with approval and a general debate will be held. But today is another important moment. In fact, we have received a direct message from the government palace, which we have heard very well from those who can hear that the banking system will be rescued from the European Stability Fund. Great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-26-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much. This was also not in line with the explanation of vote, but again one of the information. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 35. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I want a nice afternoon for all of you!
