ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 3, Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Roberto Battelli. I've invited a candidate for the new Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government to the meeting. Mr Alenko Bratušek and the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, at the 2nd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to both items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 26 February of this year, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 2. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda for the 28th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the agenda, this is a proposal for the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 22 February 2013, on the basis of Article 199(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 10 Members and Members proposed Mr Janko Vebra as the candidate for the President of the National Assembly. I did not receive any new proposals for candidates until the point was discussed. In order to further explain the application, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mr Sam Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is a special honour and pleasure for me to present, on behalf of my fellow Members and colleagues from the Group of Social Democrats, the nomination of Mr Janko Weber as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Janko Weber is a university graduate civil engineering engineer, head of the Social Democrats Group, and an extremely experienced Member and politician for many years. He began his career in the field of regulating premises and inspection services in the Municipality of Kočevje and later became Director of the Public Company Hydrovod Kočevje-Ribnica. He started his career in 1994 when he was first elected mayor of Kočevje Municipality. The electorate and the electorate trusted him to lead the congregation three more times in a row. Janko Weber was first elected Member of the National Assembly in 1996. In the 2011 early parliamentary elections, the voters and voters entrusted him with the fifth consecutive term of office. He was one of the few Members and mayors at the same time who performed both functions optimally, mainly because of his negotiating work and immeasurable energy. He held many responsibilities in the National Assembly, as he was president of the Committee on Transport, Vice-President in certain working bodies or investigative commissions, and an extremely good expert and expert at various fields, particularly in the field of transport infrastructure, local self-government, agriculture and forestry. He was also in the narrowest round of candidates for minister in the previous government. For 17 years I have been working with my fellow Member, Janko Webro, in the National Assembly, and I can certainly say that it belongs to the summit of the most experienced Slovenian parliamentarians. During this term of office of the National Assembly, our fellow Members and fellow Members of the Group of Social Democrats elected him to lead the parliamentary group. As has been the case many times, he has also justified the confidence of Members and Members in the role of the Head of the Group and a member of the College of the President of the National Assembly, since he has done his work very well. Ambassador Janko Weber has an extremely developed social note in addition to his leadership skills. It is characterized by tolerance, prudence and openness to diversity, which is still essential in the current situation. From the experience described, the proposed candidate undoubtedly demonstrates all the necessary knowledge, experience and ability to understand the fundamental points of institutional parliamentary democracy. We are convinced that, when looking for a broader political consensus that goes beyond narrow party interests or divisions, he will be responsible and successful in carrying out the demanding tasks of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced of the work done so far, the rich work experience, the correct and consistent attitude towards the tasks performed and also in the personal characteristics of Member Janko Vebra, which justifies our candidacy and his election to the presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much for further explanation. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Dr László Göncz is represented by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, respected others present! We believe that, in terms of the legitimate and operational functioning of the National Assembly, it is necessary to elect a President with full powers as soon as possible. Even though I have argued that this is necessary as soon as possible, perhaps we could wait just another day, our position, especially in view of the fact that we would see the deletions of a possible new coalition, as we are now deciding under another point on the new coalition. However, if the initiative has been given as it has been and is being decided now, I would like to point out that we do not see any specific reservations in our Group regarding the support of the candidate, Mr Janko Webr. This is an experienced Member of Parliament who will be able to contribute greatly to the quality of work in the National Assembly, especially in the field of coordination between different political options. It is probably the most self-aware that work will by no means be easy, nor popular, but very exposed, especially in the media, so a lot of knowledge, calm, mutual respect and probably energy will have to be invested. In certain situations, there will also be a need for prudence, determination and wisdom. I hope that if the candidate is elected, he will face a major challenge, which will also benefit the country and its citizens. We believe that there will be at least some party claims in this position in the given situation, because, as the first of the same, it is likely that it will be the best way to reach good compromises between the parties. Regardless of how long the mandate of the potential new President of the National Assembly will be, added value can always be created in terms of the quality of the functioning of the National Assembly. This is what I would like to do to the possible new president, the current candidate, too. Finally, let me stress that good cooperation is also expected in the field of protection of the rights of indigenous national communities and national communities in general. Above all, we will also need good cooperation because of the planned upgrading of minority legislation, which I hope, at least firmly, will continue intensively despite possible changes within the executive branch. The upgrading of minority legislation, including the adoption of a general law on national communities, is necessary for substantive reasons, but will undoubtedly also benefit from the continued international application of Slovenia in the field of the protection of the rights of indigenous national communities and minority communities. Support from me will be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members! Because of the current political situation and in the light of the exit from the current crisis, we want the National Assembly to vote at today's extraordinary meeting and to appoint a new President of the National Assembly. We are convinced that the National Assembly should act in its full composition, irrespective of the concrete exercise of the presidency by the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Last but not least, Mr Jakob Preseknik himself said when taking office as President of the National Assembly: "I will replace the President who is not and without choosing to do so. If I could, I'd suggest someone else. But since I can't choose, I'll take this assignment. It would be irresponsible if you didn't." Janko Weber, President of the National Assembly, is an extremely experienced politician, since he was elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the first time in 1996. The voters and voters have entrusted him with the mandate of a member of the National Assembly in the last early elections for the fifth time, so in Positive Slovenia we are convinced that Janko Weber is well aware of the work and business of the National Assembly, which is necessary to serve as President of the National Assembly. The role of the President of the National Assembly is particularly interrelated, and Janko Weber, in a long political career, has demonstrated in the exercise of many responsibilities, including as leader of the parliamentary group, that this role is not foreign to him. Fellow Members and members of the Social Democrats are convinced that he is doing his job well and that he has justified their trust. In Positive Slovenia, too, we believe that Janko Weber will justify our trust and that he will respect the principles of tolerance and prudence in his work. We believe that it will play an important role in finding the broad political consensus that we urgently need in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why in Positive Slovenia we decided to support his candidacy for the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! I do not recall that the first-signed Member, under the proposal for the appointment of the President of the National Assembly, would propose himself and that he would prepare himself as a fine explanation as we have received it. In this case, I believe that the agreement attached was completely overstated because, once he signed the proposal for the appointment of himself, he also carried out this task. We have strong concerns about the appointment of the President of the National Assembly. Not only are we opposed to such a vague procedure with unpredictable consequences. At the end of this process, when we may truly win the President of the National Assembly, by formally remembering the gap created after the resignation of the previous President of Mr Virant, we will not be any closer to any substantive conditions for a way out of this unseen situation arising from the planned ambush against Prime Minister Janez Janša. For the election of the President of the National Assembly, there should be a coalition, at least with a framework programme, which is intended to bring the country out of the economic and financial crisis as well. The emerging coalition programme is not even in the outline, as we see that not two potential coalition parties have at least about the same opinion or position in any key area. The two key projects of this mandate, the Slovenian State Holding and the Bad Bank, are the strongly opposed positions of the Civil Gazette and DeSUS, which on the one hand supported the laws. On the other hand, we have Positive Slovenia and SD, which have used all parliamentary instruments to block the implementation of these two laws, including constitutional opinions on referendums. As two key projects are the current coalition, passengers of the new coalition, if they enter, potential passengers of the new coalition, will have to change their position considerably and face many times to make things look right. Here I am very much joining the position of my colleague Starman when he says that what happened last year with great effort will now be torn apart. The first victim has already fallen. Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of the Civil Service List, who was the holder of the processing of these two laws, has already been excluded from any human resources combinations in the formation of a possible new coalition. Gregor didn't do anything. At the Slovenian State Holding – if I now return to the candidate for President of the National Assembly of Mr Vebra – we have received his unfounded accusations that we want to steal state property by uniting governance, governance, availability of state property. We didn't and we don't have any such desire. All we wanted was for the state and the citizens to have something of it, because we have to recapitalise it so far because of national interest, and more times, and with the assistance of part of the policy, money probably flows into the secret accounts of the uncles in the background in the tax havens in which the mailboxes are kept. On the basis of the law, when the classification of state property was drawn up, colleague Weber identified the classification as high treason, and those we prepared and supported as high treason. None of this holds. He praised the Capital Investment Management Agency for more or less all the time, although in the reference year 2011, it produced as much as 15 times less dividends from State assets than its paid financial contributions, so that this state property could even live. If we add negative returns to this, then I can mark Mr Webra's views at least as biased and also professionally and politically controversial. One reason to vote against it is also the non-consistency of the Social Democrats' policy. In the programme they have the preservation of all public, including state, education, health care and other areas. In practice, this piece is privatized in pieces. The case of Martha Macedoni Luksic, the wife of the President of the Social Democrats, is only one of these, but it is very outstanding, as it is the wife of the President of the Social Democrats and the indicator that they speak and work one another. On the one hand, they're full of mouths of public health, and on the other, they're taking advantage of every opportunity to privatize. None of the members of the Group of Social Democrats condemned this act, which is not illegal, is allowed, but we must admit it, but it is contrary to the principle and programme definition of the Social Democrats. There was no talk of treason here. Mr Weber also received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors for the last year of the county in the municipality of Kočevje. The Court of Auditors stated in its statement that the operation of the Kočevje municipality was in significant contravention of the rules and guidelines. Otherwise, the Municipality of Kočevje has long been somewhere at the bottom of the success scale of Slovenian municipalities, with many problems which, despite the long-standing mayorship of Mr Vebra, have not been able to shake. Even now that Mr Weber is no longer mayor, there is no way to work with the current mayor. The two most important officials of the nomadic municipality, Mr Weber also the saint, cannot reach a minimum consensus on the fundamentals of the local community. So much for prudence, tolerance, openness, and perhaps more. This no-participation image of the two most important actors in the local community — suffering for sure by the municipality — can also be transferred to the state level, perhaps in a very shaky form. In the National Assembly, however, we need a policy of tolerance, prudence, and openness to diversity. Although the vote is secret, we will vote against it in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are aware of the particular importance and responsibility of the Social Democrats as President of the National Assembly. He is the first of the same representatives of the people in the highest legislative body, so the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also assigns him a special place in our constitutional regulation. Article 84 of the Constitution provides that the President of the National Assembly shall be elected by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members. Article 103 of the Constitution provides that the President of the National Assembly shall call for the election of the President of the Republic. 106. Article 106 provides that the President of the National Assembly shall, in certain cases, replace or even suspend the President of the Republic. The President of the National Assembly, representing the highest branch of power in the country, is undoubtedly a very responsible function. For this reason, we Members and Members should not care whether the National Assembly is operating in full leadership or taking its decisions without a President, which unfortunately we have been facing for almost a month. Such a situation is mildly unusual and, above all, further undermines the external appearance of the National Assembly as an institution and gives citizens and citizens the wrong signal. That is why it is so important that Members and Members are elected as soon as possible to elect a new President. However, such an election in itself is not enough. In doing so, I should like to stress in particular that the Social Democrats are grateful to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Jakob Presecnik, for his proper leadership. Unfortunately, the Constitution says what it says and we must have the elected President of the National Assembly. Social Democrats are convinced that the holder of the function with his actions and activities must give the right place and content. However, the latter condition is that we elect a candidate who can fully justify such trust as the President of the National Assembly. Such a fellow Member, Janko Weber, is certainly. The Member and candidate for the President of the National Assembly shall have 20 years of political activity; otherwise, the professional path has begun in regulating the premises, in the work of the inspection service and in the management of the public company Hydrovod Kočevje-Ribnica. He embarked on a professional political path in 1994 when he was first elected mayor of Kočevje Municipality, while voters and voters trusted him to do so three more times. Janko Weber was first elected Member of the National Assembly in 1996. In the 2011 early parliamentary elections, the voters and voters entrusted him with the fifth consecutive term of office. Throughout his term of office in the National Assembly, he held many responsibilities, since he was president of the Transport Committee and also vice-president in certain working bodies or investigative commissions. In this mandate, Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats elected him to lead the Group of Members. As he has done his work many times so far, he has justified the confidence of the Group of Social Democrats. In addition to leadership skills, Janko Weber has an extremely developed social sense. It is characterized by tolerance, prudence and openness to diversity, which is essential in this situation. It follows from this that the proposed candidate undoubtedly demonstrates the necessary knowledge, has the experience and ability to realize the fundamental values of parliamentary democracy. This will show him how to play the first role among the same, and in particular in ensuring the competence and role of the highest branch of government in Slovenia, which the National Assembly certainly is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u12	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today is a kind of holiday in the temple of democracy. For we love the first one among the same, we love the new president of the National Assembly. We wish that with the new President of the National Assembly, whom we must elect as soon as possible, the National Assembly will function fully and be fully operational. We wish the President of the National Assembly who will be tolerant, tolerant, interrelated, acceptable to all, just. We wish the President of the National Assembly, who will be paternalistic to us, Members and Members, paternalistic to the services of the National Assembly and all employees. To protect the institution when it is necessary to take on each and every one of us, if necessary. On the other hand, he will be critical of the actions of all of us to warn and act as far as he can. In our opinion, colleague Janko Weber could be a good candidate and a good president of the National Assembly, in a given case, who also has potentially all the qualities I have been talking about. To shorten, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette announces its support to colleague Janko Webr and we wish him, if he receives satisfactory support, a successful work in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is undoubtedly the first foundation and final defender of democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. It is the place or concept that should be placed on the top of the political scale of democratic society, including ours. Regrettably, for such and other reasons as we have witnessed in the past year and would not have exposed them here, it is not so far. People on the street, public opinion polls, and elsewhere make this clear. A good year ago, all the Members of this Assembly, particularly those elected for the first time, took an optimistic step into a new mandate, which no one thought would be so turbulent. But unfortunately, the beginning of the term was already quite a clown. Let us recall the constitutional meeting of the National Assembly, at which time potential coalition partners with the largest number of Members proposed each of their candidates or candidates for the President of the National Assembly, none of whom received a sufficient majority, thereby preventing the establishment of the National Assembly. We then cut off the members of other parliamentary groups by electing Dr. Virant as President, which was also some reason to start talks on the right-centre coalition of five parties, a coalition that no longer exists after a good year, which is why we love the new President of the National Assembly after such a short time. Today's presidential elections are held in completely different circumstances than those of a good year ago. Unfortunately, optimism is gone, the prospects for the future are quite unpredictable. That is why it is all the more important that a person assumes the position of President of Parliament. First of all, let me stress that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are pleased that this time you are able to agree on one candidate for president. The National Assembly certainly needs a President with full powers as soon as possible. This is important both for the smooth functioning of the National Assembly and its services and for the international activity of this institution and for the credibility of our country abroad. Last but not least, due to the unoccupied presidency, a visit by a foreign delegation has already been cancelled in our country, which has not been accepted with approval in the international space. Above all, this is not good for the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. Let me talk a little bit more about the candidate for President of the National Assembly, Janko Webr. The electoral proposal states that Mr Weber has, I quote, 'an extremely developed social note, but it is characterized by tolerance, prudence and openness to different', the end of the quote. This may be true, but the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party have unfortunately not recognized these virtues in the past year. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we hope or expect Mr Weber, if elected as President of the National Assembly, to act in a much more coherent, constructive manner than he did last year as leader of one of the opposition parliamentary groups. We also hope that it will be corrected to all Members of Parliament and that it will not instill ideological issues in its performances, that it will not mark politicians, on the other hand, as traitors, thieves, players of the century and more. Whether his actions were sincere or merely a performance for the public or the role of the opposition MP, he was a candidate for the president himself. In the Slovenian People's Party, we really hope it was the latter. We therefore expect from Mr Weber, in good faith, that, if elected as President of the National Assembly, the President of all Members and Members, regardless of their political conviction, will also act in situations where he would react differently in this spirit as an ordinary Member or leader of the Group. To be the first of all the same, not just the first of the same on his political gender. The responsibility for the election of the President of the National Assembly is not in the hands of the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. This responsibility rests with the parliamentary majority who managed to unify the candidate for the new president and is also the most responsible for the reputation and proper functioning of the institution of the National Assembly. Therefore, we will not support the proposed candidate for president in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Nevertheless, you, Mr Weber, in the event of the election of a Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party in the performance of this important function, we want a lot of wisdom, prudence and tolerance and successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! About a month ago, we were Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia without a President. Mr Virant's decision to resign as President of the National Assembly, we regretted the fact that we were satisfied with his leadership. The work of the National Assembly under his auspices was carried out properly and professionally. This also applies to the Vice-President of the President, who, in accordance with the business arrangements, took over the management or chairmanship of the National Assembly. Thank you both. Since the temple of democracy, like any state institution, must operate in its perfect composition, it needs its leader or president. Also because the presidency of the National Assembly is more than just the leadership of Members and the legislative branch of power, it is right that, regardless of the political situation in the country, we are voting on the new President as soon as possible. Today, colleagues and colleagues, we have this opportunity. The proposed candidate for the President of the National Assembly is Mr Janko Weber. According to our conduct, there is an experienced policy at the local level and at the state level. In view of the vast kilometre in Parliament and its so far responsible work in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that it is respected among its fellow Members. We also believe that he is capable of acting neutrally, despite some of the concerns of other parliamentary groups, which is one of the most important virtues that the President of the National Assembly must have, since his task is to democratically lead Members through decision-making processes. Especially in these uncertain political times, he will also have to show a great deal of tolerance. In our parliamentary group, we want the President of the National Assembly to be able to enforce such a culture of integration and cooperation in Parliament, so that today too stable political divisions will be cut to the left and right or to the right and left. Slovenia needs this right now, because we will have to show Members in the coming weeks and months that we can work for people. Ambassadors and Members of the DeSUS Group wish Mr Webro great success in his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u18	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear Janko! The National Assembly needs the President of the National Assembly, so in New Slovenia we welcome the election of the President of the National Assembly. We must not forget that our coalition or our joint mandate, when we started it, elected the President of the National Assembly, despite the fact that it was not yet a clear coalition or that the coalition was still formed, because we were all aware that the National Assembly needed a president. Now it is up to us Members to try to select one of the 90 candidates who will get as close as possible to the following characteristics, to be moderate and to be interlinked. For the candidate ahead of us, Mr Webra, we can say in Novi Slovenija that he was unfortunately too harsh in his statements last year. These harsh statements in some way encouraged pessimism and, as a result, increased conflict in this House. We also missed a greater willingness to cooperate. So that I don't just think about it, I'll tell you a few cases. We certainly wanted Mr Weber and his colleagues to allow a debate on the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative. Unfortunately, our wishes for some basic democratic desire for the debate have not been heard. We may even be a little bit more disappointed because at least in New Slovenia this year we tried to be connected, we tried to cooperate, so let's say we all, together, even in the coalition, listened to the demands of the opposition's pension reform. This coalition also supported the opposition's budget amendment, and we recently signed a request in New Slovenia to convene a committee on the waters that came from the Social Democrats. I think I have made very clear the reasons why we will not support Mr Weber as President in New Slovenia. Because I think, even if the National Assembly needs a president, it is our duty to try to choose as best as possible. That our decision will not be misinterpreted for ideological reasons, or that we will be decided for that reason because perhaps in the coming months, we will no longer be in the coalition. No, no, no. Let me remind you that, at the beginning of the term of office, Nova Slovenija, this parliamentary group, supported Borut Pahor as President of the National Assembly. No one can tell us the ideological limit. Nevertheless, we are convinced that we could find a candidate who would be a little more moderate and a little more intertwined than Mr Weber, and this candidate would also get our support. Nevertheless, we give Mr Webro an opportunity and we wish and hope that he will give us a positive surprise with his work in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Roman Žveglic, prepare for Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u20	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. First of all, I would like to say that I wish my colleague Mr Webru a successful job in the new function. I have no doubt that he will be elected today. I wish him that this transition from parliamentary work to state work will be able. Now that I saw him, when he began to debate or when he applied for the debate or when he was on TV, I knew what his order of discussion would be. End of the century, treason, holding, bad bank, decommissioning. From now on, I wish that we would remember him, especially after he tries to relieve the tensions between the political blocs and that he will succeed in doing so. My personal opinion is that the coalition, which now continues and which will assume responsibility for running the country, must also choose its own affairs and put its people in the places that it has agreed to. Otherwise, he won't get my vote, but I wish him a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, prepare the mags. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate, colleague Janko Weber! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its 84th Article, provides, unfortunately not, that the National Assembly shall hold its President. It is high time we chose him, for this time, when we do not have him, the National Assembly was in some way paralyzed. The functioning of the National Assembly in all areas has been paralyzed. I'm going to mention, above all, the foreign policy area. There's only one case I'll tell you. Slovenia has chaired the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative for one year since 1 June 2012. The challenge of our operation is to find answers to questions related mainly to the sea and the coastal zone. That seems very important to me. At that time, the meeting of the Presidents of Parliaments of all eight member states of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative should be held. That wasn't there. It is not too late, Mr President-to-be, I ask you to take this task as your foreign political mission, which you must also carry out. I hope we catch up with this manna we've just been making. I know Janko Vebra from the 2004-2008 term. The basic characteristics are: calm, perhaps even overly calm, opposition MP, professionally subdued, high level of cultural communication in Parliament. I'd say a ten. After that, there was a left-wing government for three years. We weren't there, we didn't know exactly what was going on, and for that time, I can't evaluate our colleague Yank. In this one-year part of the current term, I must say that colleague Weber radically changed his vocabulary. Today we have heard several times his quotations, which have surprised me personally and my constituents and our constituents and voters who have drafted and elected this coalition, which in some way still exists in the government. I think colleague Weber today regrets his statements such as: "The government plans to legalise the site of the century." If that is the case, then all of us who supported the Slovenian State Holding, and this is most of this House, the thieves of the century. When we warned Comrade Vebra, "What century? Slovenia is not yet 100 years old." Then this vocabulary changed and said, "The classification of investment by the Slovenian State Holding is treason." Colleagues and colleagues, all of whom we supported the Slovenian State Holding, perhaps even the classification, including those in the future coalition, are great traitors. Too many words. I guess my colleague Janko Weber, I'm taking him to the defense, didn't think so badly, because by some method of mathematical complete induction, which you as an engineer understand very well, I can say that you sent this message to all the voters who supported us. I will not speak of the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors, which was given to you for your leadership of the Kočevje municipality in 2010. I'm sure you didn't make mistakes on purpose, but it happens to everyone. Everyone is a man, and everyone who does, makes mistakes, but mistakes have been made, and I hope you will correct them. In this composition, which is depicted in this majority, it is only a matter of purity that prevails, but unfortunately that is not the case. Dear colleague Janko! Once again, as a university graduate engineer, you understand sinusoid, and I believe, so I began that in the 2004-2008 mandate, as far as cultural dialogue is concerned, you were at the peak of this sinusoid, on the hill. You may be somewhere in the lower part of the curve this year, but life is a sinusoid, and I believe that at the moment you will occupy the highest chair in this temple of democracy, you will once again change your vocabulary and become a truly connected member of this high choir. My voice may not mean much to you, but I can assure you that you will never have a radical opponent from seat 90, but that you will have a cultural interlocutor. I wish you good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. It's mag. Ivan Vogrin, get ready, Mr. Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we love the new president of the National Assembly. I will borrow Winston Churchill's thought: "The most important thing for politics is that it can predict what will happen tomorrow, next month and next year, and then explain why it didn't happen." Let's keep going. Even when we elected the previous President of the National Assembly, the arguments were similar. Those who proposed spoke only in superlatives. Those who were opposers spoke in negative images, and this is a constant practice. It doesn't matter what we say. What matters is what we do. In the year of parliamentary practice, we have seen a huge gap between words and actions. Instead of the president of the National Assembly, who would be as my predecessors spoke, united, calm, who wouldn't jump in front of the camera on every occasion, give valuable judgment, we got the opposite. I am convinced that Mr Janko Weber has exceeded this state of mind and that, given his long-standing work, including in the economy and in his responsible functions, he understands that the President of the National Assembly is a special honour and, above all, a special responsibility, because with the moment that someone is elected as President of the National Assembly, it is not only Mr Janko Weber, but the President of the National Assembly and each statement, that every gesture is weighed according to specific criteria, so it is important. The National Assembly needs a mature, wise man who will be able to step back and give weighty judgment with the time distance of the responsible person, and even better is unconscionable. I was most proud of myself when I could be quiet, even when I thought I was called and that I had something to say. I'll vote for Mr. Jank Weber. But I expect that in one year history will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor, Mr Franz Pukšič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u26	Dear Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Indeed, the President's Rules of Procedure replace the oldest Vice-President, that is Mr Jakob Preseknik, but the replacement cannot go on indefinitely. The National Assembly for its effective work, especially in these times, urgently needs the President of the National Assembly. I am pleased that today we have only one candidate, which is a good sign that we will not be repeated in 2011 or December 21st, where two egos made a third profit and came up with a Slovenian river where there are two, a third profit. To get back to the proposal. Mr Janko Webra was proposed to this place. Personally, I think the proposal is appropriate. I estimate that its political and professional path, in particular its tolerance and openness for constructive negotiations, will contribute to the responsible and successful performance of the function for which it is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the word, prepare the mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I already have five elected seats in this National Assembly, and I have known my colleague Vebra since the beginning. What has been happening lately, at the time of the opposition, when he was talking about treason, I can say that with some acts before he participated in the government, he was in fact in favour of a major crime. We haven't released anything and sold nothing yet. However, big crime has occurred, so today we have more than 7 billion negative balances in banks, so at a time when the leading party in the government was more than 8 billion government debt, we have more than 2 billion unused European funds. But let's leave it because it's a candidate for the President of the National Assembly. How'd it go? The operations of the Municipality of Kočevje in 2010 were reviewed by the auditors of the Court of Auditors. In the report of 20 December 2012, the number of business irregularities was reported and the municipality gave a negative opinion. Let me remind you of one more thing. Fellow Member Janko Weber, accused of scolding in the case of the Strojans, will not refer to parliamentary immunity. When we talk about the moral integrity of a person who leads the National Assembly, these two acts that have been do not appeal to him. I think the state deserves better. My voice will not be heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožič, prepare Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone! Today we will probably formally fill the gap created by the resignation of the current President of the National Assembly. The signatories to the proposal to elect the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have already demonstrated their confidence in a policy that has been active at the level of state policy since 1996. Being a politician today does not bear a positive foretaste, as in the eyes of some of the rebels the whole state political structure should be replaced. Despite the formal powers that give the President the role of first among the same, I would like him to act in his thinking and future actions as one of the same, taking into account our constructive opinions and proposals. In the belief that the proposed candidate for the President of the National Assembly will act with tolerance, impartially, and above all that he will carry out procedural excellence as recorded, he will get my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. It is Mr Matjaž Han's turn to prepare the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before giving my opinion on how I will vote on point 1, when appointing the President of the National Assembly, I should like to thank you as Member and President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Vice-President of Parliament, for the proper and very good work done. This also shows that you are already the fifth term in the National Assembly and know the procedures. I believe that the candidate, Mr Janko Weber, whom I undoubtedly know will be elected President of the National Assembly, will continue your work. Dear Members and Dear Members! Today, however, a dignified debate should be held. Not to seek faults in Members and Members of Parliament, but to seek the positive works they have done in their professional and mission careers. There are pictures of all the presidents so far in the hallway in front of the big salon. I believe there'll be a picture of Janko Weber in a few days. I am the third term in the National Assembly, and I must tell you that we can be proud of all the presidents, from first to last, Mr Virant. No doubt we'll also be on Mr. Jank Weber. Those of you who have been in Parliament for some time now know the work of Members and you know how a Member is doing his job as an opposition Member and how he is doing his job as a member of the post. Therefore, the statements that some of you have, what someone said when he was a Member, are superfluous. Janko Weber definitely has experience, knowledge and everything necessary to be, and I am sure of that very good president of the National Assembly. One more thing. Today is not a holiday, ladies and gentlemen. Today is reality. This country is at a crossroads and these are the first steps to get us on the right track. We must elect the President of the National Assembly, and we must elect a mandate-holder who will have the opportunity to form a government. The country is at a crossroads, and I hope we've chosen the right path. And I want Janko Vebru all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Han, first of all, thank you very much for your thanks, but I would like to remind you of something. Today's picture of the elected president is likely to appear in the hall after the end of his post, not in a few days. So I hope that if he is elected, he will be elected for more than a few days. I apologize for my comment. It's mag. Majda Potrat, prepare Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the opinion of the parliamentary group, I justified the main reasons why the parliamentary group proposed Janka Vebra as President of the National Assembly. It's a secret election, so I'm not going to publicly announce how I'm going to vote, but it's probably on its own. In particular, I have come to thank you, Mr Jakob Preseknik, personally for the work you have been doing. In order not to understand that the opinion expressed in the opinion of the Group of Members is a word that would in any way reduce your work, but are words that are justified by legislation and the Constitution and should be followed. In this mandate, we were first in a situation where the National Assembly was one month away from the President of the National Assembly. Thanks again for the work you've done.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Samo Bevk, the candidate for the candidacy, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would also like to thank you, Mr Vice-President, as a candidate for today's candidacy, fellow Member Janko Webra, for leading the National Assembly during this time when we did not have a President of the National Assembly. My opinion is that you've done this very well. In view of the views expressed by the groups of Members and in view of the views expressed by colleagues and colleagues, I believe that Ambassador Janko Weber will today receive sufficient and strong support to be elected as the new President of the National Assembly. I wish him a successful job in this responsible function. Nor did all these views change my view and the view I gave at the outset as a proposalr. I still believe that it belongs to the top of the most experienced Slovenian parliamentarians. That he was determined and that he had made clear his views and views of the Group of Members, he could only be a positive part of his work. On the other hand, it must also be said that the Group of Social Democrats, which was led by counterpart Janko Weber, has supported several key projects such as the opposition parliamentary group. For the first time in recent or Slovenian parliamentary history, the opposition supported state budgets for 2013 and 2014. Never before has the opposition to the budgets proposed by any government in Slovenia supported. This time it happened because we solved some things together with the amendments. We have also supported pension reform and I believe that in the coming days we will also support labour market reform. So we can say that from this point of view, as well as the candidate for the President of the National Assembly, we have been more than constructive and coherent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. In this way, you have received the word of all the reported debaters you wanted. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and by the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members and members of the voting committee. It's a mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Matjaž Han and Mrs Iva Dimic. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I propose that the Commission in such a composition and with a new chairman, if elected, also conducts a vote on the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under item 2 of the agenda. I ask whether anyone opposes this proposal and the proposal for a commission. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Commission has been elected in such a proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in conjunction with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which is at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 11.20 p.m. and will last until 11.30 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 11.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u38	Respected and respected! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The outcome of the vote that we have just carried out is as follows. 89 ballots were distributed. 89 ballots were delivered. Three votes were invalid, 86 votes were valid. 52 Members and Members voted against 34. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 34.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Janko Weber was elected President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. / applause/ I congratulate the newly elected President of the National Assembly, Mr Jank Webr, on this election. I have also repeatedly stressed that the National Assembly, as an institution of democracy and a representative home of citizens and citizens, must work in full composition, especially in leading functions. I therefore wish the new President a successful work in all areas of action and constructive cooperation within the National Assembly, both with Members and Members and with all the services of the National Assembly. Mr President Janko Weber will address the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u39	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I thank you for your confidence that I will be the first to be one of the same. The leadership of the National Assembly is an extremely responsible task and far exceeds all my functions so far. In doing so, I must say that I have tried to carry out all the tasks so far faithfully and loyally. I will also attempt, knowingly and loyally, to carry out the task of President of the National Assembly. I understand the views of the parliamentary groups, which have not shown me support, because I am aware that I have always wanted to present the problematic solutions as clearly as possible. I have always put people's interests first, as well as the mayor and as an MP, and I have tried to justify their trust. As President of the National Assembly, I will endeavour to justify your trust in my work and to design the best possible solutions for people through constructive dialogue, whether proposed by the coalition or the opposition. Thanks again. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u40	Thank you so much for the address, for your words. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed in 15 minutes at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u41	Dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome to the next session! We're moving to 2. On the agenda, this is a proposal for the election of the new Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 116 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 254 and Article 255 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 27 Members and Members, with the first signed by Janije Möderndorfer, proposed to the National Assembly that the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be elected mag. Alenko Bratušek therefore votes against the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u42	Slovenia went to early elections in autumn 2011 where the then government lost its support and the National Assembly assessed that the first early elections were the best response to the challenge of time. The December elections were accompanied by some traditional political parties from this hall, with whose work people were dissatisfied. Voters and voters have opened up space for new customers, new people and ideas. One of them is Positive Slovenia. Only a few months after its establishment, the party won the general parliamentary elections. She gained the most confidence between Slovenian voters and voters. I will not repeat the arguments we presented at the beginning of last year. Shortly after the formation of the new government, the character of the new power began to manifest. Willingly and without serious dialogue, including by acting interested and even by the public as a whole, there was a leadership policy that even coalition partners were not allowed to participate in some important decisions. As a rule, legislative changes have taken place as urgent and rapid procedures without prior impact assessments, without consultation with both the civil and the professional public. The result of such destructive behaviour of the Government is not only a bunch of unintentional and deliberate injustices, but also a street, a dissatisfaction of people who do not feel more than part of the social structure. The economic crisis, the record rate of unemployed, young professionals without perspective, the ignorant attitude of the ruling SDS, which marked the dissatisfaction of people with incompetence, compared them with zombies and left fascists and, on the other hand, sufficient eloquent evidence that change is urgently needed. A party that insults, insults, or despises its people cannot and must not rule. Ignorance and underestimation of the opposition is probably not to be mentioned. Let me only remind you of the way Janša's government has been negotiated. Despite the constructive position of Positive Slovenia, many negotiations were unsuccessful, including negotiations on a fiscal rule. We had a deal, and we didn't negotiate. Why not? Because we speak different languages? No, no, no. Because if you don't agree with me, then I don't respect you. The only way we can negotiate is if we all agree to my opinion, because this is the only thing right and that is how it should stay. This rule of conduct was consistently enforced by the Government both in negotiations with the unions and in negotiations with the opposition. The year 2012 was rapidly reversed, bringing together the wrong policies for the entire mandate. We have constantly warned about them in Positive Slovenia and it is right not to forget them. At times, it seemed that the government of Janez Janša was trying to make such bad decisions that they would become part of the everyday world and the general public, voters and the media, would no longer even pay attention. Therefore, at this point, we recall once again what was happening in the year of the government of Janez Janša. The government of Janez Janša began its mandate with the worst possible first decision, a new law on government and a controversial transfer of the state prosecutor's office to the MNZ, forced by Janez Janša from his coalition partners. Our fear of overseeing the work of the Prosecutor's Office has become more and more justified over the course of the year and has also been realized in the early part of this year by interfering with the work of state prosecutors. In an attempt to resolve the members of the Venice Commission, the Government continued its legal proceedings and even damaged the international reputation of Slovenia. The way in which Janez Janša went to the first resolution of the public finances package, ZUJF, clearly indicated how his government would make the most important decisions – hand-to-hand, without analysis, dialogue and respect for the principle of division and rule. As a result of the consequences of such behaviour, all citizens and citizens were soon to have a headache, especially those who, in both half-lived history and in the 1990s, laid the foundation of the Slovenian state. Despite opposition from coalition partners and coalition treaty commitments, the ruling party continued to fight ideologically and culturally, bringing more unrest and unnecessary divisiveness instead of finding solutions between citizens and citizens. Throughout the year, we have also witnessed the humiliation, mockery and contempt of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to adopting controversial and reckless decisions by ministers of the ruling party. The Minister of the Interior went so far as to obtain the first interpretation in the government of Janez Janša. Last week, there was also an interpellation against Žig Turk, and if the National Assembly had the opportunity to discuss and decide on it, it would certainly have been successful. The full mandate of the government of Janez Janša increased the pressure on the independent functioning of the media, which was the most acute in responding to media reporting on the protests. In Positive Slovenia we tend to see positive results, so light exceptions should be highlighted. Adoption of the pension reform and the near approval of the labour law at the door. We have proved that we trust those who can and can do enough, reason and will to make the most difficult decisions and, if appropriate, support them. It is precisely because of these cases that we do not allow ourselves to see that Positive Slovenia, as an unconstructive opposition, is responsible for the failure of the government of Janez Janša. In addition, it is a key reason that after one year of government plan Janez Janša is not working and that the situation has only deteriorated. Public finances in Slovenia are not in the best condition, but the country still meets its obligations regularly and pays interest on the loans it has rented, so the threats with the pompous threesome, the Greek script and the bankruptcy are not based. But it's true that it doesn't go on like that anymore. The European Commission recently announced a winter economic forecast for the period 2012-2014 in which Slovenia is forecasting to record a government deficit of 5.1% of GDP and a 2% decline in GDP this year. The projected public debt for Slovenia is expected to be 59.5% of GDP this year and 63.4% in 2014. Unemployment in Slovenia is lower than on average in the euro area and the EU, but continues to grow. The Commission notes in the forecast that Slovenia has slipped back into the recession with a double bottom. The further decline in GDP is due to further deterioration of investments combined with negative trends in employment and domestic consumption. Otherwise, the Slovenian Commission has announced a public debt of 59.5% of GDP this year, which is still much better than the average in the euro area and the EU, but is growing sharply. For Positive Slovenia, the European Commission's forecasts are not unexpected, as we believe that the last decline in GDP has been affected by insufficient fiscal consolidation. The government of Janez Janša has decided to offset public finances mainly by excessive and premature cuts in public finances. This fiscal policy has led to a radical decline in aggregate demand and has led to a drastic decline in GDP. The decline in demand and the decrease in investment are further deepened. We are already witnessing a reduction in employee income, a reduction in production, profits, investments, public finances. Private consumption fell by 3% and public consumption by 3.4% and investment by 9%. At the end of January 2013, 124 thousand 258 unemployed persons were registered. At the end of 2011, there were 112 thousand 754. The labour market situation continued to deteriorate at the end of 2012, as the number of workers is at the lowest and the rate of registration of unemployment at the highest level since 2000. Most of the short-term economic activity indicators deteriorated last year, indicating a further decline in economic activity at low expectations. As has already been said, Janez Janša’s unimaginable fiscal policy has caused an additional recession and has brought an additional downturn in public finances. Slovenia must change its fiscal policy, pointing to the use of measures also on the revenue side of the budget and to a lesser extent of measures with generally stronger negative short-term effects on economic activity, such as reducing the intermediate consumption of the country and investment. By doing so, the government of John Janša proves that it is no longer able to handle the tasks entrusted to it. Moreover, the country, which is in an extremely difficult situation, also benefits from brutal party recruitment without chance, especially in the area of the appointment of real-colour personnel to all ministries, state institutions, institutions, companies it has achieved. It is not surprising that the number of personnel exchanges on the SDS websites has long been appeased by the party, as the staffing changes of the government of Janez Janša have exceeded their abilities. The number of discharges and appointments increased at the same time as the increase in the government and the state crisis. Closer than we were to the total collapse of the government, human resources were more extensive. The government's plan is more than clear. She tried to employ as many loyal personnel as possible, and then the opposition will show partiality to the future government because it will be forced to act accordingly. What about the country and its people? Did the SDS become completely irrelevant? All these actions and wrong decisions have led people to the streets. There we were told clearly and loudly that as it was, there will never be again. They require fundamental social changes based on the rule of law and the social state, ethics, efficiency, work, a more friendly state towards citizens. People are full of political explanations about why something can't be done. They want to hear us do it. A report from the Commission to prevent corruption hit the already heated field of public political discourse a month ago. The report focused on our and the Prime Minister's client. We have accepted our part of the political responsibility. We thank Mr Zoran Jankovic for his heart and wisdom that, despite his firm conviction in his innocence, he has stepped back, withdrawn from national politics and thus allowed new opportunities for the development of the country to be born. As he himself said, the difference between the country and Ljubljana is essential. Ljubljana is evolving and our country is failing. In Positive Slovenia, and I am sure that all future government partners too, we will do everything in our power to stop this decline and turn trends for the better. The ruling party and its president have failed to reflect on this. As a result, the Prime Minister lost support in a number of coalition partners. He could have made a different decision, but he didn't. The SDS could keep the government alive, and she decided to go to everything or nothing. Urgent changes in governance and calming the tense political situation are needed. This is the basic condition that Slovenia can return to the path of recovery and restore citizens' confidence in our country's institutions. It is the responsibility of Members of the National Assembly to stop the political crisis. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the National Assembly may only vote in confidence to the Government by electing a new Prime Minister by a majority of all Members on a proposal from at least 10 Members. The President of the Government has thus far been dismissed and, together with his ministers, he must carry out ongoing operations until the oath of a new government. Therefore, on the basis of Article 116 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 254 and Article 255 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a constructive non-disclosure was put forward by the Group of Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to elect Mrs Mag as the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Alenko Bratušek therefore votes against the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a competent candidate to run an executive branch, which, if elected, will carry out its function by seeking wider consensus between the various political parties and to carry out the challenging tasks responsibly and successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u43	Thank you, too, for this introductory presentation of the proposaler. I'm giving the floor to the candidate for the new president of the government. Mr Bratušek, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 255 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall present the Government's programming designs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u44	Dear Members and Members, dear citizens and citizens! Today is a broken day in front of Slovenia. It is a day of break with politics of division, contempt, insult and fear. It's a day of hope, of integration and of respect. Usually, the situation we are in today leads to the election of a new mandate-holder, followed by the promise of development. It's the other way around today. Since the government has not offered the prospect of development in the past year, citizens are demanding elections. This will be the first priority of the government that I will seek if you give me your trust – to bring Slovenia safely to the elections. This fact sets out in many ways all other priorities as well as the pace of their implementation. But today's world and time are such that you can't just stop them, wait a little while for Slovenia to elect their new representatives in peace. No, we're gonna have to do more things at the same time. I'm running for office so it doesn't get any worse on the way to the election. But we can try to make some things significantly different and better. We will not have a full four-year term for this, but we need full confidence. If we don't get involved in internal disputes right away or, worse yet, we lose the confidence of the citizens before we even get to work, my second priority will be my full commitment to work for the common good. Anyone seeking personal benefits or short - term prestige in this story has nothing to look for. People certainly don't expect us to sit at the table tomorrow and go to the usual coalition negotiations and blackmail to behave our ways. They expect clear views and tangible words on how to move forward and in what time frame we will choose the best, which Slovenia is ahead of us. Let me remind you that in the 20-year history of the Slovenian National Elections, this call has the largest number of Members so far. I wish that women would not judge us by the length of our wings, but by the far-reachingness of our solutions and by what many have been striving for for decades – to give everyday policy the wings of the future. That is why I would like to present an important message to the Slovenian public today. Even when there seems to be no way out, we can find a way out. With this fundamental optimism, yes, I am starting today's presentation. The people in Slovenia have tried for the past few years how they can get worse overnight. They woke up on a new day, sold them a factory, lost their jobs, reduced their pensions, abolished their ministry, and began talking hostilely about their neighbors or even their own. So they started waking up with fear on a new day, "What's going to happen again today?" The real dimensions of the crisis are such that no one can promise short-sighted improvements. We owe each other fundamental social optimism. That there are enough of us in a community of two million not to do harm to each other and to steal the future kindly, but to build up knowledge and power and to prove to ourselves and the world that it is worth living and working together. So that we can work together to do things that a man cannot do. To enable public services to offer citizens the services they have earned with their past or future work. That it's better to create with someone else and for others than yourself and only yourself. We can do it together and we can do it. But some things will have to be set up differently, even quickly and in a short time. First, the relationship between power and people. We are here to manage public affairs for the common good, to seek the best and acceptable solutions in dialogue with the profession and the public. With the social crisis, all social relations are sharpened, but any government that could not starve these sharps, but would only pour oil into the fire, would have a short period of time. The one-year term of office of the current government has shown this over and over again. The new government will not lack challenges. In the year that we have made available to ourselves, we will not be able to complete the many projects that we need to improve the economic and social situation. Which of them is why it will not make sense to start, but my firm intention is to achieve three goals at this time. I'll call them normalization, dialogue and profession. By normalising the situation, I focus on normalising relations in society. We will break off the climate of fear that holds Slovenia in convulsion. It's true, Slovenia is in crisis. The crisis has stopped the economy more than in most European countries, but the fear that threatens Slovenia is irrational. It was artificially caused by internal political needs. So it's not just banks that don't lend, there's entrepreneurs in the tavern who don't hope to invest. There are even consumers who buy only the essentials in the spasm. In Slovenia, no one hopes to start anything new because we are all numbed by fear. Banks, that businesses will not repay their loans, economists, that new investments or new employment will not bring them added value, consumers, that their salaries will be reduced again tomorrow or even lost their jobs and therefore they must save and not spend in any way. How else should it be in a country where the government, in order to implement its crisis resolution version, talk about the country's bankruptcy, threatens with a European threesome and a Greek script, and threatens the public sector with salary cuts and funds to implement the programmes? We therefore need normalisation in Slovenia. We need some peace and a realistic assessment of the situation. Thus, we will see that, according to some indicators, we are indeed on a weaker footing than the European average, for example after the fall of economic growth, but elsewhere, for example, by public debt, we are better than the European average. People don't want to plant flowers, but scaring them is equally unacceptable. The new government will build on Slovenian advantages and the belief that fear is unfounded and the lack of trust that has been passed on from politics is harmful. Let me therefore make it clear to everyone today that there will be no Greek script in Slovenia. There's a dialogue in second place. We have forgotten this fundamental method of democratic societies in the past year. The President of the Government found himself in conflict with practically the entire public sector, not only, somewhat expected, with trade unions that have recently organised a general statement, but also with the cultural and educational sphere. This was not just a lack of willingness to engage in dialogue and a patient search for solutions, but a humiliating attitude towards these people. The public sector is estimated by some government representatives to be a parasite on the back of the economy. In this way, the President of the Government has deliberately created a conflict between the economy and the public sector and has increased distrust in a society which has already grown because of the economic crisis. The new government will do its utmost to restore constructive dialogue with the social partners, civil society and expertise. This is part of the normalisation of the conditions I have been talking about and at the same time a condition is necessary for exploiting creative potentials in democratic society. Our life span will be short, and sometimes we will be tempted to rush over the edge of the possible, but we will by no means give up the agreed nature of the search for solutions. An hour more talk can bring much better solutions, but cutting off the rush can unfortunately close the door to the best. A third of the goals that do not in themselves improve our situation, but without them no improvement is to attract and respect the profession. From top Slovenian experts, people expect politicians to help lead this country, and from us politicians, they rightly expect us to know how to find and listen to these top experts, and then push their ideas into a viable management plan with this country. It seems to me that the biggest obstacle to politics is stubborn belief in its own right. This belief most often rests on two crackling pillars. One is arrogance, which grows out of political power, and the other is ignorance or even contempt for knowledge. As a fairly new policy, I have not had time to resort to arrogance, and as a man who had to seek pragmatic and effective solutions in drawing up and implementing the budget, I have learned that there is no point in insisting on old models if they turn out to be wrong. If all those who insist on a headless austerity policy, regardless of its poor results, were willing to admit a mistake, we would be spared a number of problems. Therefore, the new government will try to attract experts into its work and listen carefully to them. Above all, it will do so in finding solutions for the start-up of the economy and in reducing unemployment. In this area, the current government has not done enough. There are few other successful examples, but if they are, then they are mostly elephants on models that are either hard to accept or hard to implement for our Slovenia. We will have to find our own models and the role of the profession is indispensable. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I ask for your trust as the mandate holder of the future Slovenian government. The new government cannot assume its mandate without assessing the state in which we are taking over the country. This is especially true because I am not a post-election candidate, but on the basis of a constructive non-trust. This mandate has been initiated by another government, and to vote on its non-trust today, we have been brought up by serious reasons that we probably do not all see the same, so I want to tell you how I see them. In those days, I have examined how the current Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, assessed the situation in the country at the beginning of his term of office. His assessment was correct: Slovenia is in poor economic and social condition. He cited the low growth of gross domestic product, only 0.2%, and the third largest decline in gross domestic product in Europe, with only Lithuania and Greece being weaker than us, the weakness of investment activity, where investment in many sectors is more or less stagnant or declining, and the number of unemployed growing and is expected to reach nearly 120 000 unemployed in the following year. This was his proper assessment at the time. The situation in Slovenia today, a good year later, is significantly worse. The predictions are bad, too. We have just received a report from the European Commission, which estimates that this year our economy will shrink by 2%, much more than a year ago. Gross investment is expected to fall by 5.5%, and the number of unemployed is already well above 120 000, according to the Commission's assessment. These figures are an important reason to talk today about the constructive non-trust of the current government. Many of you may have been persuaded by the KPK report to withdraw support from the Government, but I am of the opinion that Slovenia needs better guidance because of this and other information. You will say that this year's current government has been working in an extremely tight environment, as it is reversing the entire euro area. Following this same European Commission report, the entire euro area will also shrink by 0.3% this year. Even Germany and France will record only slight growth. But the government could also choose a second path and not follow such a blind policy of over-sharp saving, a policy that Nobel laureate Stiglitz referred to a few days ago as similar medieval medicine. You're draining the patient's blood. After it doesn't help, you're letting him have a little more blood. This policy was abandoned even by the International Monetary Fund, one of its creators, when new research has shown that the initial forecasts have absolutely underestimated the impact of reducing public expenditure on economic activity. This government has certainly made good moves – here I am thinking of pension reform and labour market reform – but these moves have remained in the shadow of a sharp saving policy that, as I have already said, is being cancelled even by the International Monetary Fund. It may have been understandable that small Slovenia initially followed a large-scale dictatorship, but at a time when it has always become more clear that this path does not lead out of the crisis, but even deepens it throughout Europe, it should be acknowledged and considered on different paths. Slovenia simply cannot afford to continue the trend of declining economic activity and rising unemployment. It has been shown that only by cutting public spending we will not achieve economic growth, that such a policy does not lead to a reduction of the budget deficit over the long term, which the current government has paid the highest attention to. At the end of this year, the European Commission has announced a deficit of 3%, namely 5.1%. 5.1% deficit! However, public debt is almost 60% of gross domestic product, despite the fact that the president of the current government promised that the debt was over when he took over the government's leadership. This is the legacy of Mr Janez Janša in the economic field. This is why Slovenia needs a government that will put economic growth and fiscal consolidation at the top of its efforts, which does not hinder and reduce these growth. I would also like to form such a government with coalition partners, and then, with the cooperation of the professional public, find the best solutions for the exit from the negative economic spiral in which we are. Therefore, it is not difficult to place the basic priorities of the work of the new government. Firstly, we need to launch economic development in order to make a value-added generator of social wealth with jobs and products, rather than personal wealth at the expense of exploitation. Secondly, we need to balance public finances, but in the process of reducing the budget deficit we will not reduce or even cause economic growth. Thirdly, we need to protect and develop the public sector in order to make it a factor for the development of our society, the employer and the promoter of progress, not the apparent enemy that we can only take away from it. Fourthly, people's confidence in our country's institutions depends heavily on how our justice system works. Since there are those in the legal state of the court who say what is right and what is right, my political priority is to improve the effectiveness of justice. This can only be achieved through enhanced dialogue and cooperation with the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, while respecting the principle of the division of power. In this way, steps can be taken to speed up the procedures, as well as to enhance the quality of decision-making. The Government will also pay greater attention to warnings and recommendations from the Ombudsman. However, in order to define these objectives, one government should not be exhibited and others put together. The Devil is in detail — how you do it, what you are willing to give up for it, and where you draw a line that you do not step on in any way. This line is for us who are competing today for your trust, the rule of law and a just society. He who does not respect the institutions of which we are all equally responsible, who thinks that he is the only one called for salvation and that without him only follows the flood, he deserves to be replaced. Trust in politics is not built by discipline but by past achievements and by its own example. Our greatest test will be that we will have to prove that we are capable of a new, better. Not only will we be judged by you, yesterday's colleagues in the government or the National Assembly, but especially by people who want to change. I therefore inform you, ladies and gentlemen of Slovenia, as well as all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia: exceptional time will require extraordinary efforts, but we are prepared for them, because we are entrusted with the fate of a young country and an ageing society that is dangerously dispersed and very angry. The unregulated free market has brought us a huge cost crisis. The fruits of economic growth have landed in the pockets of the richest, the shrinking of the country reduces economic growth and the women of the people into protests. Thus, the difference between power and people is increasing. Dangerously opens a crack that can break the whole society. In Slovenia we often hear that in times of crisis it is necessary to forget the ideological issues and focus on finding a way out of the crisis. If there are ideological issues to which he thinks about bickering about half-time history, I absolutely agree. But the most important ideological issue at this point in Europe, the European Union, is how from the economic crisis. We have two options: by maintaining the current system, which has created huge differences between people, or by reducing these differences. The question is rhetorical and in fact we have only one option: greater equality. Yes, the question of equality is how much we have and how much we want it. In this effort, we are allies of both the social Democrats and the environmentalists, both farmers and workers, both pensioners and young people, both believers and atheists, both loud and silent protestors – all active citizens. The system of parliamentary democracy only works well if we simultaneously open it to all those who have left or have never entered it. For humiliated culturers without their own ministry and angry schoolchildren without the necessary resources, for representatives of labour rights and student rebels, for entrepreneurs, for the votes of the outraged and impoverished, for active citizens and citizens with positive solutions. I advocate the concept of broad social coexistence and cooperation with which people of different perspectives, beliefs, religions and cultures form the best solutions to social challenges. The minimum criteria that I set before all the interlocutors are the patience and capacity of creative dialogue. So far, we have talked about the moves that have led to this day. That's how I believe we'll continue to talk. Therefore, I would like to actively include in future work the ministries of our government a number of proposals that have had to be developed elsewhere in recent months, such as their usual venue – on the street instead of through social dialogue, on the protest stage instead of in the national programme. If you allow me to propose a new government by election, I will do everything in my power to make the ministerial team expert and competent. There will be politicians and experts in it, but my efforts will go in a direction that is not dominated by political calculation, but by professional debate and good decisions. Slovenia is not in a position to afford electoral calculations by its government. We need a pragmatic team that will, in the short time available to it, open up problems that it can solve without getting involved in internal disputes. That is why, as my commitment and appeal to the coalition partners, I announce efforts for a government where there would be more experts than politicians. I am starting a more concrete part of today's talk with those structural changes in government governance itself, which we have already discussed with future partners. I'll make the following suggestions. The establishment of the Ministry of Culture and Civil Society, which will not only fix the mistakes of the current government, but also recognise the strength and dynamics of a segment of Slovenian society that can give spirit to all development, as it did in the 1980s before the decision on independence and independence. Returning the Prosecutor's Office to the Justice Department and thereby ensuring its necessary independence. The fight against corruption and organised crime will be one of the priorities of our government. By combining internal affairs and public administration, we want to show that internal affairs are not only a police ministry, that in modern European democracy, not necessarily a repressive body for the reconciliation of angry citizens, but that they can and must be a service to everything a citizen expects of the country. The government won't have much time to deal with itself. Our messages and actions await dissatisfied citizens and concerned international institutions. We know who we are first and first – our citizens. By calming the passions of the home, by exemplary cooperation with the profession, depoliticizing decisions and professional staffing, we can only create the conditions for dealing with difficult situations at all. There are pragmatic steps that will only be possible through continuous open communication with the Slovenian public. We're not going to work against people. We're going to work with them. Decisions will therefore sometimes be harder, but success will always be shared. What awaits us as soon as we sign a clear coalition and, above all, a program commitment and put together a team? Firstly, the balance sheet of the budget, which will correct the most far-reaching mistakes of the austerity policy and at least partially decompress the tense situation in the country and move the social dialogue from the markets and streets back to the table, will in particular show the public financial situation. To show it today is completely unrealistic to show that the budget deficit is expected to amount to EUR 250 million in the first month of 2013, a quarter of the total expected for this year. In other words, such a deficit should only be achieved in April if we are to pursue the objectives of this government. Secondly, consolidation of public finances with social partners, coordinated interventions in wages and the most likely temporary rise of any tax. This is not our wish, but at last year's elections, we have said that without this we will not succeed, and, as the results and economic indicators show, we have unfortunately been right. Thirdly, the return of that developmental potential to education, science and culture, which, with the latest brutal cuts, in particular with a humiliating attitude, was not only taken away, but also fundamentally denied. Fourthly, cancellation of extreme issues about the sale of state property. Simple solutions whereby all asset management problems can be solved through privatisation and those where each privatisation is contrary to national interest are unfortunately not possible. Today's world is too complex to solve problems with such simple formulas. It will therefore be necessary, with calculations on the one hand and considering the social and development implications of each state investment on the other, to look at what and when it makes sense to sell. Unlike simple formulas, this requires hard work and difficult decisions, but this is how we will do it. Fifthly, the ratification of Croatian membership in the European Union, which is not only a good neighbourly but also a geostrategic interest. The Presidents of the parties have already agreed on this with the President of the Republic, and I hope that we are all able to stick to this agreement, including the one that began to violate it the day after the meeting. Six, a series of investments, from river power plants through the energy rehabilitation of buildings to the completion of the transport infrastructure that is to start the economy and new jobs. Week, strategic planning of the contents of the new financial perspective for the period 2013-2020, as the way these funds are spent over the next seven years Slovenia is literally writing its future. Eighth, a state housing scheme that will link up so far too often unrelated – a set of accessible apartments and the needs of citizens. There are two areas, which I must not only list in the introduction, but I must pay particular attention to them, because their underestimation or even neglect would show a fundamental misunderstanding of the Slovenian political moment. First it's about staffing, second election. As Prime Minister, I will call on all state officials and high government officials, members of the Supervisory Boards and administrations appointed at the time of the collapse of the current coalition, to go beyond the criteria, with controversial references, conflicts of interest or even ethically controversial moves to withdraw themselves. I want all these people to be given the opportunity to leave their positions without honor, especially because they belong to a single political party. If this call does not fail, I predict the measures that our coalition will take to correct the unacceptable actions that one ruling party has afforded at a time when due to an increasing crisis it should pack its suitcases, not park its people on chairs. I say in advance that this is not a matter of human beings or twitter fiction, but it was a serious violation of fundamental democratic procedures. Therefore, sharp countermeasures are a prerequisite for the re-establishment of the same procedures. The second area concerns electoral legislation and news that the ruling class in Slovenia must and can accept in order to show that it can think beyond the limits of its own mandates. The fundamental dissatisfaction of people by the fact that their voices are no longer considered by anyone to be listening to them and that, therefore, there is no point in going to elections or participating in social decision-making processes, requires all of us to open a debate on the improvement of the democratic decision-making system, despite the short, time-limited years of our mandate and the set of other parts. As a mandate-holder, I commit ourselves to paying special attention to improving democratic decision-making procedures. If our first mandate is to lead Slovenia to elections, then we can all do them better together to attract more people, especially young people, and thus increase the democratic credibility of their results. You know our coalition partners, so you know what we will quickly agree on – labour market reform, pensioners' rights and conditions for the functioning of a modern rule of law. For the same reason – because you know us – you also know what it will take to talk about for a long time, because it is clear that simply by avoiding or stubborn insistence in our own positions we will not save anything. This is mainly the issue of bank resolution, government and some of the key corrections of the consolidation of public finances through reckless savings. As a rule, this is the crown event at the end of coalition coordination and the content that flies together. This time, for understandable reasons, I will be able to better present the concrete plan of our government when I represent the ministerial team before this high assembly. Dear colleagues, allow me another thought at the end. It is rare for a person to be given the opportunity to conduct his contemporaries and contemporaries. This must make a difference at both ends, with people and with you. In recent times, we have been accustomed to thinking of things that are ugly, selfish, even corrupt. The media does not hesitate to expose each and every one of us on the cover. But for a moment, it is worth remembering that these are miraculous moments. Somewhere something has changed so thoroughly that someone can get an opportunity that he never even dreamed of. This is how I saw the historic opportunity of the late President, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, and he will set an example for me of how he took this opportunity for the good of Slovenia. In his own way, the current President of the Republic, with whom I had the opportunity to cooperate while he was President of the Government, has created such an opportunity, so I will be very grateful for his help and understanding. Without a vision of Positive Slovenia, Zoran Jankovic, the 2011 election victory and his decisive moves last Thursday would not have stood before you today. But not the late and not the former Prime Minister can help me in anything if I have no clear purpose. My goal, respected citizens and citizens, is in a small word that is hard to stand alone, but when it comes to other, difficult and meaningful words, they sound kinder. Decision becomes codecision, participation becomes participation, stay becomes co-existence. Yes, my motto is the word "they" which you also find at the beginning of solidarity. We have enough people to make decisions and live instead of us so that others can live our lives. We want to be around, we want to be fellow citizens of our own country, neighbors and contemporarys. We want to live full, active, successful and honest lives. But if there is no work, if marriage is not the same for everyone, if you can’t go to school and if you don’t even have something to eat — what is life like? Where's the future? Where is the man and where are the people? A year from now, I'd like to look people in the face and ask them, "Are you so-? Have you also found in yourselves and your fellowmen something positive, which makes your day more pleasant and the future more bearable?" If we can't do this, my dear fellows, it's better if we don't even try. But if we can, and I firmly believe that we can do anything else, there is no greater satisfaction than getting a friendly, upbuilding view back. Then we will never need a fence around the National Assembly and not protective vests around our hearts. I promise such an encouraging but sober management of state affairs. I don't promise great results, but I promise a lot of hard work. I promise a different government for different times, for the 21st century Slovenia. I will conclude my speech with the words of the great John Drnovšk: "The things must be taken into hands and they must be changed. The hardest thing to do is start, and then it'll go easier and faster. Maybe even in time." Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u45	Thank you for presenting the government's programming design. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Ivan Janez Janša, to respond, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 254 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to the proposal to appoint a new President of the Government and explain his views on the work of the Government so far. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Congratulations on today's election. Your Honor, the National Assembly! Public indication of the reasons for overthrowing the Government in recent weeks, and also as a result of today's vote on the constructive non-confidentialness cited by the proponents, can be categorised in two groups or in two categories. At the beginning of this process, the report by Klemenčič-Procurator's Corruption Commission was cited as the main reason. This was cited as the reason mainly in the Civil Gazette and in DeSUS. In the second category, we can include the reasons that we have heard in the public and in part in today's performances, and we could contravene them about the opposition to the stabilisation of the banking system or the establishment of a bad bank, the opposition to the Slovenian State Holding Act and, in general, to the austerity measures or programme, as has been said several times, to the neoliberalist government. These reasons were cited primarily in the parliamentary groups or parties of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. Let me first say something about these two groups or categories of reasons, better said, the reasons why we are here today at this extraordinary meeting. This year, 2013, Slovenia was moderately optimistic. Under the roof were four of the five key measures planned last year for the exit from the crisis, Slovenia's indebtedness was valued, the interest of foreign investors in investing in the country increased, and we also recorded a moderate increase in economic optimism. On 8 January, the report of Klemenčič-Proporteur's Corruption Commission was published. The draft report, contrary to the law, was not sent to me and within 7 days I could not comment on it, which should then be made publicly available on the Commission's website together with the report. One of the investigators, the President of the National Gazette Gregor Virant, was previously informed of the non-working report. The following day, immediately after the report was published, my resignation was requested. This action began in Slovenia as a hindrance or political crisis. Klemenčič-Praprotnik's Corruption Commission sent me 14 questions last September. I answered all 14 questions. In spite of the lack of time for the commission, I also collected extensive documentation within the time limit set for the session of the General Assembly of the United Nations in New York for one week. For example, the Commission requested a contract 20 years ago, although there is no legal basis for it, but I also sent it. Such contracts before 1. 1. It also requested different legal persons without a legal basis. At the Commission's meeting, I was told that all bank transactions had been obtained, so I did not collect or check them alone. I did not send this letter to the Commission, although it was expressed in a letter, copies of the tickets and cuts of different air tickets for the period before 2011, because we rejected such cuts this year when we moved to Šentilj near Velenje. That's what I told the committee. If I had time, I could have collected all this from different addressees, but it seemed to me that I was completely overstretched to collect a billing certificate for a few Euros 6 or 7 years ago. The lawyers also told me that I would receive a draft report under the law before publication in the 7-day review and that I could obtain further clarification at that time if the Commission was not satisfied with any response. As is known, this has not happened. Klemenčič-Praprotnik's Corruption Commission published the report as final and accompanied it with strong political qualifications. When I read it, I made it very clear what it holds and what it does not hold. Two findings on a few months' delay and the wrong price in the car were made, and I explained that. I turned down all the other evidence, and that's why there's irrefutable evidence. Now let's take a look at these readings. In its final opinion, to which no comments could be made, the Commission stated: "In the process of control of the assets of the debtor of the President of the Government of Slovenia and of the President of the SDS party, the Commission found: for the first time, the debtor during the course of his duties as President of the Government and a Member during the controlled period between 30. 1. 2004 and 24. 5. 2012 did not even report a loan guarantee to a customer amounting to EUR 500 000 in 2011." This guarantee was lifted in the middle, it was a mistake. The Guarantee Board never asked me anything about that. If I did, I'd tell her. Furthermore: "He did not report the guarantee to a natural person/family member for a loan of EUR 125,000 in January 2012." That's not true. This guarantee was notified by letter to the Commission on 24. 4. 2012. She has this letter from the commission, and she deliberately missed it. As far as the delays that the Commission is aware of – they were a few months late, but they did not change the actual state of affairs. At the same time, the Commission itself, although it is supposed to be a state authority requiring respect, is late for 2011 with its report to the National Assembly for more than one year. I think it only came to the National Assembly a few days ago. If the commission's delay is obvious to others, then it should be more respectful of its own hands. This does not excuse me or the commission, but shows that double criteria apply. Secondly, the Commission makes clear to me the availability of assets of unexplained origin, which I quote: "On the basis of the analysis of the actual assets of the debtor and its consumption, the Commission has found that the debtor had assets or covered costs of at least EUR 210 000 above its official income or resources of which the source is known." That's not true. Both myself and my colleagues have repeatedly counted all the numbers in the report, but while there is no calculation in a very large report, a total calculation to support this claim. Whatever the numbers that appear, we don't get to this sum for any key, even if everything that the commission says holds. This claim, which has also been summarised by some foreign media as the main obvious, is completely fictitious. The Commission states that, when it tries to prove this claim without calculation, it is in the light of the following. "Firstly, co-financing of real estate with the property of unexplained origin. Unanswerable remained the question of how and from which source the spouse's debtor paid 32 000 EUR 500 of purchases and how he paid the brother 15,000 EUR of purchases to be borne by the spouse. The undertaking did not have these resources based on an analysis of officially verifiable revenues and expenditure." The Law on Marriage and Family Relations in Article 51 provides that the property acquired by the spouse by work during the duration of the marriage shall be common property. Why should a husband pay for something that is common, and why should I explain it in particular? I explained my brother's contribution to the committee. There are also court documents on succession that are accessible to the Commission. "The Commission further found that before buying a house in Sila near Velenje, the seller paid an ara of EUR 5,000 in cash. The source of the said cash was not convincingly explained, he simply said it was a matter of saving a wider family." I explained to the Commission that the ara had to be collected in a very short time and handed over to the real estate broker for a guarantee and collected with the help of relatives. What's unclear here? Unexplained source of real estate maintenance. I quote: "The Commission has found that the maintenance costs of the property were regularly paid, but not always by the debtor or not from the officially verifiable income of the debtor. Thus, for a type of property owned by or in the solace of the debtor, it has not been shown during almost the entire controlled period that the cost of maintaining the property on a regular basis would be paid by itself or from officially verifiable assets. The debtor explained to the Commission at the interview and in additional written explanations that, since 2006, when they established a joint household, the running costs or rates and other household expenses have been largely paid by the spouse, although he did not provide any evidence or evidence despite the call. Further: "Looking at the public announcement of the debtor......" – I do not know where this was published – "... of 1. 12. In 2011, that his wife had a loan of EUR 125 000 and a monthly salary of EUR 820 and that her monthly obligation to repay the loan amounted to about half of her salary, it was unconvincing to explain to her that all the monthly expenses of the property covered her husband. The turnover in the current account of the debtor, however, shows that this spouse has indicated funds, totalling EUR 13 000 at the time, but has not shown that these funds would be intended for the payment of current costs or for what they were intended for." These claims are inappropriate in themselves. The Commission will also write them maliciously because it has the following facts. Firstly, I delivered to the Commission a rental contract for housing in Ljubljana for 2010 and 2011. This sub-contract, which was notified to the tax authority, was also available because they said that they had obtained all the information from the tax office that my current income was coming from this lease while the lessee was paying the costs. I also sent this contract to the Commission after that, but the Commission does not mention this, nor does it take into account the revenue or the cost. The Commission has a credit agreement with the wife, which shows that her salary is only charged for a good year and several months and that the burden was previously free. It's a complete manipulation and a wiretap on her wife's account she cancels with an unusual excuse that didn't specifically say it was electricity or I don't know what. The following statement, quote: "Unexplained is the source of co-financing for the purchase and maintenance of a passenger vehicle." That's not true. On the 15th. 3. From my current account to the legal person who sold the vehicle, I transferred EUR 17 000 500 from my current account. On behalf of his mother, the rest of the purchase was paid by his brother on the basis of an inheritance agreement. As regards inheritance, there is a 2010 court's judgment on immovable property and an agreement between the heirs on the remaining assets of 2005. The receipts for the purchase of a vehicle and for the maintenance of a vehicle for the last years were delivered to the Commission or obtained by the Commission itself, as this is a bank transfer from my or my wife’s account. Next statement: "Financing private trips/travels from property of unexplained origin." These include Mauritius in 2008, Dominican Republic in 2009, Greece in 2009, South Africa in 2009 and 2010, Sweden in 2010 and Greece in 2012. I explained all these trips and payments to the Commission. The journey to the South African Republic in 2009 was not at all, and the Commission apparently copied it from the Journal because it once wrote it there. The accounts were publicly published for their travel to Greece. A weekly arrangement, a climbing arrangement for Kalimnos for a week costs 900 euros. The golf arrangement in the Dominican Republic costs 1200 euros or slightly less, for Mauritius half more. I explained to the Commission that it was a group arrangement through agencies as well as payments. The arrangements were arranged by the wife, in some cases by a friend, including by someone paying air fares, other playgrounds or accommodations, and in the end we settled the costs in the group. There was no trip to Sweden, there was a visit to the daughter who studied there. The cost of this trip from Trieste airport was EUR 200. I really don't remember how we paid for it. The Commission has obtained travel data. Where did the Commission get the information on these trips? I asked them where the data came from, and they said it came from my credit card or my wife's credit card. The Commission obtained this data on the basis of bank transactions. If someone else paid me these costs, then there wouldn't be any of these transactions, and the travel commission wouldn't even know. Next statement, I quote: "The payment of judicial fees from the property of unexplained origin. During the supervisory procedure, the Commission obtained from the Court information on the judicial proceedings in which the debtor is involved and on the costs incurred. It was found that court fees amounted to EUR 19 000 852 between 2008 and 2011, but no known source of payment. In this regard, the Commission concluded that no court fee was paid directly from the debtor's known bank accounts." This is a completely unrealistic claim. The Commission has confirmed that the highest fee in this group, amounting to EUR 12 000,225, was paid 29. 4. 2009 from my current account. I also explained the payment of other fees and arrangements with lawyers because some fees were paid by them because it is an agreement to pay this at the end of the proceedings, so the claim that these fees were paid in cash of unknown origin is false. Finally, Mr Klemenčič would be able to check his wife's fees of EUR 12 000 225, which is the main part of this sum, because she was my lawyer in this process. Sixth statement, I quote: "The cash-explained portfolio in the bank account. In its control, the Commission found that the debtor’s account was 30. 3. 2005 for a sub-currency in euros of €33,000 cash. With this money, the debtor made early payments to the bank on the same day following the Commission's findings." I explained to the Commission that it was money from an inheritance. This one belonged to me when I shared my parents' savings. There is an agreement of heirs, even because I helped both my parents and my brother to rebuild and build a house with a 90 - year - old book fee. With regard to inheritance, as has already been said, there is a judgment of the court of succession, including the value of the 2010 real estate, and an agreement between the heirs on the remaining property of the parents together with the parents of 2005. Next statement: "Co-financing of the purchase of apartments in Ljubljana from a legal person. In 2005, Imos, through the Eurograding related company with purchase and multiple overpayments, created an asset benefit of at least EUR 100,000." It's a complete lie. The Commission has never carried out an assessment of the market value on the day of conclusion of the transaction. It compares data from the Geodetic Administration in recent years. Don't make any market appreciation. Any such assessment — some of which were also made public at that time — is more than convincingly rejected by the Commission’s findings. If I repeat, the Commission takes the main statement in the sentence: "On the basis of the analysis of the actual assets of the debtor and its use, the Commission has found that the debtor had assets or covered costs of at least EUR 210 000 above its official income or resources known to the source during the period under control." This is totally groundless. The Commission has deliberately overlooked not only the obvious facts but also the official documents with which it has available and has also ignored all logical explanations. It is simply a political motive, on which in 2010, when the Commission was determined by its resignation, Mr Končan, Vice-President of the Commission, pointed out that he would not be able to act independently in his composition with Mr Klemenčič and Mr Praprotnik because of the obvious political motivation for their appointment. Mr Klemenčič was headed by the President, not by election in this National Assembly, but by an order issued in the Official Journal by the previous President, Danilo Türk. Earlier, Mr Klemenčič was Secretary of State, political figure, with Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal. What's more, Mr. Pahor's government is 14. 5. 2009 Mr Klemenčič was appointed chief auditor of the NPU building, one of the biggest corruption scandals in the history of the independent state. The case is in court and so on, but Mr Klemenčič discovered nothing unusual there. Because he didn't discover anything unusual, he was appointed to another place. In recent days, there have also been indications that the entire appointment of this commission has been burdened by a violation of the law itself. The Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption lays down only two criteria, which have been adapted in advance in one way or another, to serve as President and Vice-President of the Commission, since these two criteria are, for the first time, second-degree education and secondly, 10 years of working experience in the workplace for which such education is required. Mr Praprotnik graduated in 2000 or at the end of 2000, then served as an army, and was appointed Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission in September 2010. During this time, if he has worked all this time in places for which second-degree education is required, he may have completed a maximum of 9 years of working time. He did not meet this simplest criterion, and only two were written in law to be named. The Commission, which examined the fulfilment of these conditions, was composed of Mr Kumra, who was the leader of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors in one of the previous parliamentary calls, Simone Habič, who headed the so-called civil society organisations for transparency and integrity set up by Drago Kos, Blaž Zgaga, Igor Soltes and similar calibres or anti-corruption fighters, and three others. One member was appointed by the Government – a political appointment – as well as the Council of Officials and I think the Council of Prosecutors. These five eminent members of this commission could not count even the years of working experience of Mr Praprotenik. Today, this Mr. Procurator assesses whether my daughter met the criteria when she was employed in a lower official post, by failing to meet them himself when he was appointed to this commission. Even in a specific case, when it comes to assessing my property situation, both Mr Klemenčič and Mr Praprotnik should be excluded from the procedure. Mr Klemenčič from the obvious fact that his wife was my lawyer, and Mr Praprotenik because not only was he called illegal, because it was not yet clarified at the time, but because – not only did he not cause the appearance of impartiality, his work in this case gave rise to the appearance of obvious bias. There's two files behind me. This folder contains 627 articles written by Mr Praprotnik as a journalist against me. I don't think we've found all of them. He's got a record in Slovenia. Everything I did at the time of being a journalist was spat here, presented in a negative context, distorted, written about as this report by the corruption commission was written. If this is an independent body that eventually decides whether or not a government will stand or fall, then we have come a long way. As you know, my agent also filed a complaint with the Administrative Court, together with a request for a provisional order. The Administrative Court, although it is a matter of swift procedure, took two weeks to conclude that there were no grounds for a provisional order. Remember, a few years ago, the same Administrative Court decided within two hours that dangerous bullmastif dogs should return to Mr Baricevic in two hours. Recently, this same Administrative Court decided, following a rapid procedure with a provisional order, that a state official who had been dismissed for buying a business card every month in Ikea and Mercator for his own needs had been dismissed illegally, and the Administrative Court considered that this was a necessary procedure. I believe that in these very days the same Administrative Court's decision has also come that Mr Golob from AUKN was allegedly unlawfully resolved. In a few months, everything was decided. Many cases await Slovenian courts for years, some even decades and more, but of course these are not priorities. Earlier, the candidate for a terminator spoke about the fear that people in Slovenia are afraid that there are threats here, that citizens feel threatened. I have never heard of any case of anyone threatening her or any of her colleagues, unlike me and my colleagues in the government getting threats virtually every day. In 2006, the police station commander at the Drava Centre threatened me with liquidation. A few days ago, after long triads, the Slovenian prosecution decided that the judge, who then became obsolete, did not do the wrong thing. During that time, this judge received a medal for good work, was reappointed president, etc. There are obviously double criteria here, and those who speak of fear must seriously ask where that leads. Another group of reasons why the Government or the President of the Government should be replaced today – according to public explanations in recent weeks, they fall under criticism that this government has established an institution to stabilise the banking system or a bad bank, that we have adopted the Slovenian State Holding Act last year, that we have adopted the Public Finance Balance Act, with which we have stopped the headlong increase in public spending, etc. Today, in two presentations, three times, we have heard the European Commission predict a 5.4% budget deficit in Slovenia for this year. When this government swore last year, Slovenia was in a situation where the country had a budget deficit of between 6% and 7% consecutively for three years, without solving any structural problem that led to the crisis. The European Commission predicts a lower budget deficit for Slovenia this year, assuming that the guarantees and reservations that will increase Slovenia's public debt will go for the rehabilitation of Slovenia's banking system. If anyone thinks that the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks and those billions that have been removed from Slovenian banks because of non-economic and also criminal decisions, someone else will pay and not us, then there is a strong error. This must be paid and this will increase our deficit and also our public debt. We know why such a calculation was not fully clear at best one year ago, where more than two billion euros went each year for the budget deficits we had in 2009, 2010 and 2011. There was no way to explain it. We didn't build anything, the investments were falling back then, the construction sector was failing then, jobs were shrinking, no investments, no recovery. The fall of gross domestic product in 2009 was almost 8 % and the deficit was terrible, greater than what is now predicted by a clear calculation. Receipts on Slovenian 10-year bonds reached almost 7% a year ago. Our debt was not only extremely expensive, but almost impossible. During the three years of the crisis, no reform has been carried out; the minimum wage has been raised which has put jobs at risk in the labour intensive sectors; we have become uncreditable in the international community. In our quest for non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council, Azerbaijan defeated us. The National Reform Programmes, which the Slovenian Government sent to Brussels before February 2012, had a status of beautiful wishes that had not been realized and that is how everyone looked at them. We have inherited a dead social dialogue. We have heard a triad earlier about how our government has buried social dialogue and so on. No, this social dialogue was buried in the previous mandate. No solution has been adopted through social dialogue in the previous mandate. In our mandate, it has been so criticised, including in previous performances, the Public Finance Balance Act, which has been coordinated with 95% of the social partners, and therefore there has been no blockade with the referendum. We only negotiated this law, more than the previous government negotiated all solutions. The pension reform, which fell due to non-compliance in 2011, has been coordinated and the two labour reform laws, the labour relations law and the labour market law are largely harmonised today. At the same time, we listen to the evidence that our government has buried social dialogue. All the key solutions have been adopted by this social dialogue or are still possible. At the beginning of the mandate, our government offered a partnership to both opposition parties. The partnership was rejected with disgust. Nevertheless, we negotiated with the opposition about all the solutions. When we were the opposition in 2011, the previous government did not sit with us for five minutes around the pension reform, and then they asked why we did not support it. They didn't even take five minutes for us, they didn't take enough time for social partners. During last summer, an attempt to coordinate both the bad bank and the Slovenian State Holding were under way with the opposition. The government postponed both projects from July. We only accepted them in the fall. We've been coordinating this thing for two months. We have taken note of a lot of comments. In the end, however, the blockade lifted by the Constitutional Court threatened. The fact that we did not have the good will to rule autocraticly, that there was no hand offered – sorry, this can only be said in a world that is virtual, which someone creates every day through lies and manipulations, but has nothing to do with reality. As far as the fiscal rule mentioned in January 2012 is concerned, all parliamentary parties agreed after the early elections to write it down in the Constitution. The positive Slovenia explicitly agreed with this, including the Social Democrats. We still haven't done it because some people broke their promise. The government acted under difficult circumstances last year. The fact that the Government was made up of a coalition of five parties suggests that compromises had to be made in the composition itself, and this is something that is a constant in Slovenia. I'm just wondering how, when you agree that all the presidents of the parties are going to go to the government, you're going to form a government that is going to be top-notch and from experts themselves. I'd like to see you squeeze this big circle into a smaller one on this electoral system. Our government immediately encountered double criteria for public opinion makers. What has been hailed or at least tolerated in the mandate of the Pahor government has been declared a crime in our country. We were already glad that it was said that it was a mistake. After a few months, the government was responsible for everything. It is obvious that last year Slovenia did not suddenly flourish, that we did not have high economic growth, that unemployment did not decrease dramatically, etc., are, excuse me, ridiculous. One year ago, did anyone promise that after one year, all of this would be done? I remember exactly what I said a year ago, as I was running for Prime Minister of the Government after the government swore. Many times I have made it very clear that 2012 will be a year to stop the fall. Can not get folder: %s: %s You can't stop the downward movement at the same time, and you can't keep up. This is contrary to the laws of physics, sound logic and all natural laws that obviously do not work in some of the parliamentary groups in this national assembly. It was not only our assessment, however, but the assessment of all the international institutions in charge at the beginning of this year that the goal of halting Slovenia's decline was to achieve an ever-increasing public and economic crisis with the measures taken to a large extent. At the end of the year, I had a conversation with the European Commission, where we went precisely through our performance. I had a conversation with the Secretary General of the OECD, with the delegations who were here from The International Monetary Fund, with the President of the European Central Bank. This is not just our internal assessment, where every government wants what it has done to be assessed as best possible. This was also an assessment of relevant international institutions. When a coalition was formed, which some in the National Gazette named as a coalition of despair, the leaders of this cycle were often asked what the programme of this coalition would be. The current candidate for the mandate holder has rushed to list matters that are all in progress or even matters that have already been done. One of the five issues listed is, for example, to successfully complete negotiations for the next financial perspective. These negotiations are closed. The European Council adopted a budget or financial framework for the next 7 years and the Slovenian negotiating team has done well here. In impossible circumstances, we have improved Slovenia's net financial position from 0.87 to more than a percentage of gross domestic product per year, which means that this will also be the net inflow in the next 7 years. If you form a new government, you will have every year from the Brussels cash register — theoretically, this money can be even more in the first few years — almost 400 million euro inflows. This is something to be done and to be planned because it is a seven-year period. You will therefore not have to achieve this objective. The same is true of labour market reform. I don't know why you're writing this in your program, given that Minister Vizjak has concluded negotiations to adopt these two laws next week. I have no doubt that in one year this will be due to the next government, I can expect this peacefully. There will remain two earlier announced structural reforms to be implemented by this government. I scratched twice earlier, if I heard correctly, but the candidate for a terminator said that two of the structural reforms already agreed are the establishment of the Ministry of Culture and Civil Society and the transfer of the prosecution from internal affairs to justice. And then Slovenia will flourish! The status of culture and the financing of culture, etc., does not depend on whether there is a separate Ministry of Culture or not. There is a large number in Europe – I think 9 or 10 – of countries with strong old cultural peoples who do not have a separate ministry of culture are certainly culturally stronger than we are, and there is no telling that this is dependent on it. As regards the transfer of the Prosecutor's Office back to the Ministry of Justice, read the decision of the Constitutional Court before the day. The Constitutional Court says that it totally doesn't matter where it is because the status of the prosecution and independence are guaranteed by the legislation governing the prosecution. In this hall we have been hearing for three months about the unconstitutional nature of this transfer and so on. Now you have this unconstitutionality! However, this transfer back will be the main structural reform. It doesn't matter. I admit, even on our side, it was a battle for the title of the shadow. We insisted because it was written in a coalition contract. It doesn't matter. If I'm sitting in a sent-off, I won't object to this transmission. It really doesn't matter. The D.A.'s acting the way it used to be, bad. This can also be seen in the results, and you can also transfer this to the Ministry of Environment and Space if you create it, it will be no different. Like the five measures Slovenia is expected to take out of the crisis as a key programme of the new government, it is also a repetition of how Slovenia will not follow the Greek script. If we were to argue, say, a year and a half ago or a year ago, then we could agree, but the Greek script, as is happening today, is the beginning of recovery. Greece is slowly stabilizing after early elections and after taking emergency measures. The first positive international assessments are coming on Greece's recovery from the crisis, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not this year, not this year, not the next two years, but it is on its way to recovery. I could be happy to say that Slovenia is also in this situation with what is currently happening. Before we say anything and make an international comparison, we need to know. At least Google needs to be checked before anyone writes that England is an independent state. As far as the beauty of the word was concerned, much of it today — it can be copied from anywhere. The fact is, whoever leads or forms a government in the years to come will be hard and bloody work, where there will be very little room for speech. The reality is different than it reflects every day with POP TV screens or national television. Reality cannot be changed by creating some parallel worlds or virtual reality — we live in this reality — even though there are strong attempts in this direction. One of the most powerful, which has been successful for many years, and now we are paying the price, was the creation of an impression throughout the economic crisis, in 2009, 2010, 2011, until last year, how are Slovenian banks doing? Can we list any serious television broadcasts or any article, except for some comments from young economists who would seriously deal with the situation in Slovenian banks, even though it is not from today, but since 2009 this is a key economic problem of this country? No, a virtual reality has been created, how this is all right, how only a few hundred million more taxpayers need to be poured into state banks every year, and it will. When sobriety occurred last year – but it took us five months to get a report as a government that you say was supposed to be someone who held everything in hand about the approximate situation in banks. Now that this sobering process has begun and an instrument has been put in place for things to begin to resolve, however, there has been a panic. The largest individual debt was created by Merkur conglomerate in the Slovenian state banking system. A few hundred million euros. This conglomerate was so strong that at the last local elections he even ran for his local list. The Hermina Krt list in Kranj at the last local elections is the key people of this conglomerate. Mrs Bratušek is also on this list, of course. They called her Mercury List. This is where interests go unknowingly. Ihta, how to prevent a bad bank, is immeasurable. Until you know this structure, it's hard to understand. In this regard, I am very interested in how the promise made about an hour ago for this speaker that it is necessary to rely on experts, on the best experts, will be realized in this case. In accordance with the Bad Bank Act, the government appointed four non-executive directors of that institution. Three are foreign financial experts, respected. Names are consistent with international institutions that have rehabilitated banking systems elsewhere, especially in Scandinavia. I wonder if you will leave these experts in these places, or if you will leave this effort, which has been made both by Mr Šuštersič and later by Mr Širclj, to ensure a credible team, with the help of the European Central Bank, etc. — whether the word on experts will remain empty at this point. I remember the performance when Mr Pahor ran for President of the Government. At that time a very similar promise was made — we will lean on the profession, the profession will rule. Then the government was made up of mainly university professors and today we have the drastic results of the rule of this profession. Before I became Prime Minister, I was a minister in six different governments. Still, I wondered if it was something a man could do. So that congratulations on the courage of anyone who has never sat before at a European Council meeting or in any composition of the Council of the European Union were not even the Secretary of State, etc., in these circumstances. Each government needs to be brought in — even if it has an experienced team from before — if the team is new, what half a year if it is not a year old. Believing in some virtual reality that things are what they are on television, not what they really are, can be a catastrophic situation here. At the time of our government's mandate, there was no contradiction, or our government was not in favour of the concept of savings at all costs against another concept of economic growth. There has been no battle of these two concepts in Europe for years. It's only in the heads of some who are in time behind. Look at the documents of the European Union, see the documents adopted by the Government. Some have a very natural ability to use such government documents, so it will not be difficult. You won't find that contradiction anywhere. However, it is clear that the fall must be stopped first. First, it is necessary to align spending with what you expect to create before you can start growing and investing. If you discover any alkimismic formula that goes beyond that, you will solve all the problems of this world. I'm afraid that won't happen. First you have to create, then you can spend. Whoever's been working in the economy for at least a month probably knows that. Why is there no more talk in Slovenian public space about how France is an alternative to this concept? Strange, isn't it? Now that the new French President has been elected, this has been welcomed to us, if this is something that will now provide an alternative to this neoliberalist policy, etc. The month after Mr Hollande was elected, France simply continued the policy from before, because there is no other option. Still, there were problems. What worried me the most about this performance earlier was the promise that the new government would immediately go to the budget balance, where it would fix some injustices, increase spending, etc. I appeal that this is not done because, in significantly worse circumstances, there will be a recurrence of the error in 2009 when the Pahor government was formed. After the September 2008 elections, the government's first action was the budget rebalancing. With that budget rebalancing adopted in early 2009, public spending in Slovenia rose by 10%, while in 2009 we recorded a decline in economic growth by almost the same percentage. There was a 20% difference between income and expenditure, and then it went on. Three years in a row, 20% of the budget was spent more than it was created. If you are now going to make the same mistake or a little bit smaller in the same direction, then we will not go along the path of the Greek script that is taking place today, but on the path of the one before 2011. I believe there are great temptations here. This year, the budget is planning significant investment funds due to inflows from the European budget and it can mislead a lot of people. I also believe there's a lot of movement to raise VAT. It is true that Slovenia has not yet used this reserve as one of the few European countries, because it is a two-way sword and has no positive effects in the long term. I believe that this is within the framework of the forecast that has been heard here, that income needs to be looked at, but in the end, all such measures have direct effects, not only on the standard of people, but also on the conditions of the economy, and in the end, these inflows can be reduced despite higher taxes. So in view of everything that has been said, I think that the Slovenian public must take this very promise most seriously and appeal to those who will make up the government in the future to seriously consider it. It will not be beneficial for anyone to go along the road that was used in 2009, which proved to be wrong and which is why we are still paying the price. I think there are a few things to say on this occasion, but since you've limited me time the way the college has given me, I'm going to take advantage of the time available in the debate itself and at the end for these things. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u47	Thank you, Prime Minister, for looking at the government's work so far. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Melita Zupevec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u48	The picture taken before me by the president of the government is a picture of Janez Janša. More than half the speech is me, me, me. We would expect Slovenia, Slovenia, Slovenia from the Prime Minister of the Government. The picture of Slovenia, as people see it, as the rest of Slovenian politics see it, is different. It is a picture drawn by a high level of unemployment, bankruptcy of formerly successful companies, banks with poor credits that need 100 million recapitalisations, social partners who no longer trust each other, and especially citizens who live worse and worse, who long ago no longer trust the current government with no hope, confidence and demand change. We have a government or, better, a party that embraces authorities that clearly sees no reality in the economy, not in education, not in culture, not in science, and at least in the everyday hardships of people. Once a success story, today's story of lost opportunities, a story of missed and many missed actions. That we wouldn't just say nice words and be abstract. Sometimes the most successful among the countries of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe, today, according to the International Monetary Fund projections for this year, with the worst forecast of economic growth in a group of these countries. Look at the countries that belong to this group. But yesterday is history. Slovenia really needs a new start, a new hope and confidence. We're at a turning point where it's probably more important than ever, which path we'll choose. Will this be the path of economic growth, progress, job creation, start-up, or will we continue with drastic cuts to the social state, with measures that do not bring development incentives, especially with apathy, pessimism, dissatisfaction? This is a fundamental question to which Positive Slovenia has had an answer after winning the last elections and has an answer today. We'd have chosen a better way. A path that really needs to be tried. Finding easy solutions is out of the question. Positive Slovenia was created to give people the courage to cope with the crisis, to give hope that honest, creative work can lead a better life. In the National Assembly today, the largest number of MEPs in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism since the last national elections. Today is an opportunity for us to also elect a mandate-holder. Today we have the opportunity to lay the foundations of a new government, a government that will restore optimism, a government that will move things forward with a sober assessment. Today there is an opportunity to support this determination to change things for the better. It would be a shame if we missed this historic moment because of crisis tension and increased tone. Let patience, sobriety, the ability to perform responsible tasks, but also the irresistible dialogue and the feeling for the fellow the softer if you want, the women's dimensions that we bring into this hard and too often, still, too much male Slovenian policy. Alenka Bratušek advocates that our country be kind to all the people we live in and that hope for a better future and, above all, trust in our common country will return to them. She'll have to make decisions that won't be easy. If the main objective of the government's action was intimidation and if the main method of decision-making was to divide and rule, Alenka Bratušek will try to rekindle confidence in fundamental social optimism and prove that we can do it. I am sure that it will do everything to prove that dialogue and the involvement of the profession and the social partners does not harm development, but can lead Slovenia on a better path. In Positive Slovenia, we seek a responsible and justly organised society that enables respect for human rights and the achievement of the conditions of human dignity. To a society that allows for rapid development, however, it does not allow permeability to mean a systematic weakening of others. We believe that sustainable development is possible only if we provide citizens with an environment in which they can develop their creative potential while also providing them with stable social security. Therefore, our sincere goal is to raise quality of life and economic growth is therefore understood as an element of ensuring social well-being. In Positive Slovenia, we also advocate a firm legal and social regime which Slovenia has laid the foundations of since its independence. The price for maintaining the government of Janez Janša has become too high because of the painful interference in the lives and well-being of our people. It creates an atmosphere in which there is no perspective. That's not our agenda. In Positive Slovenia, we advocate a society where we can live from the fruits of our work, together with others, on how to share added value and enjoy the full freedom of thought, expression and life. Not only Slovenia, the European Union and the world are in a deep economic, political and social crisis. I think that we all, regardless of our political affiliation, are aware of the fact that at this moment time is an extremely precious good. If we are aware of the situation we are in and are aware of the challenges ahead of us, then we have only one question to answer before the vote. Do we want to move forward as a country, as a society, as a community? The President, the Prime Minister of the Government, spoke of his dissatisfaction with anything in this country. In his opinion, the situation in the country is poor. Banks, the prosecution, the worst economic minister in the history of Slovenia. This is all bad and all from the mouth of the current Prime Minister. I wonder why he hasn't turned things around in this country for the better. If ever, then today is the time to be brave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. A colleague began by saying that she could sum up the debate of the Prime Minister with me, me, me. The words of one Prime Minister, one of his predecessors, could be summed up in words of robbery, robbery, robbery. And it would be as good as it would be, maybe even close to the actual state. In the SDS, we knew what it meant to assume a mandate in such uncertain situations and with so many partners as this government has drawn up. On the electoral day, the current Prime Minister of the Government announced that this government or any government, which would form a government after such fragmented results, would not have a long mandate. It has to be acknowledged that the legacy of the previous mandate was extremely bad, that, before this government's mandate, the biggest failure of economic growth in the euro area had occurred, that many of the responses of the Pahor government were inappropriate, that during this period there had been an enormous increase in the public financial deficit, that there had been a steady debt, that State interventionism had been carried out both in the company and in the banking system, and that to all, including companies that would have already, by default, by the logic of the matter, because monopolistic societies sometimes had to share profits. The banking system remained intact with all the deformities that had accumulated during that period. Another period, or another measure, we will remember from the previous government – the deprivation of social rights. The former government has adopted the ZUTD, which has curtailed many, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which has affected many of the rights of those who are socially disadvantaged. He went to the scholarships, to the children's allowances, to various benefits and other things. This was the only anti-crisis measure of the former government – an intervention in the rights of those entitled to social transfers. This mandate was put on a second basis. All of this is recorded in the contract for Slovenia. This is, by the way, a contract made for a four-year term and all those who assess the implementation of this contract – this proportionality must be taken into account. I must say that during this four-year period, much has been done, especially because everything was in the dialogue. If there was no dialogue in this mandate, then we could not adopt a pension reform agreement that was significantly different from the former government's pension reform proposal, we could not adopt a Public Finance Balance Act, which focused primarily on the rights of those who have super-standard, super-average revenues. After lengthy negotiations, the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act were adopted. This went through many negotiations and through many blockades, at the end of which included the Constitutional Court's decision that the law was appropriate. The reform of the labour market is also just before the end. March 6th is the date when we can also say the adoption of this reform at the OECD annual meeting. The adoption of this reform, in addition to pension, will be the basis for many annual forecasts. This mandate has also improved the use of European funds, which is a very important development resource. Major changes have been made. Unfortunately, all these changes have failed to translate into economic growth, but it is important that the measures are implemented, implemented and that they are a good basis for further development. I mentioned earlier the Law on Slovenian State Holding and Bad Bank, both targets of all possible blockades, because these two areas are an inexhaustible source of power to many networks, mostly through silent companies in tax havens, where they are usually only postal collectors. But these are the collectors who are full of Slovenian money. Some assets have certainly been lost in some way in the Balkans during this period, and both laws allow for the disclosure of bad transactions both in the banking sector and in the management of state assets. The limitation period will then be extended, and those involved in these transfer transactions will then be detected. [[Incomprehensible]] According to our assessment, this is the main reason why a procedure of non-trust has been initiated against the current Prime Minister of the Government. Whether the new coalition will do everything to expose these scoundrels so as not to remain tax, banking, business or other secrets is still a big question. There was not a word on this at the nomination of a candidate for a term of office. It is not even known that the so-called independent authorities would deal with these transactions, some of which amount to more than €10 million. More important during this period were various other minor and public goods that were being processed primarily against members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but some of us were not even present. What will be the transparency of poor and poorly secured loans, poor investments in the Balkans and elsewhere? By investigating the operations of postal collectors, it is likely that this will be a story that will be untouchable. In the newly formed coalition, the only goal is to remove President Janez Janša from the political scene. This group of parties, potential partners, has not even said "a" about the design or content of the coalition programme and about the content of the further development of Slovenia. We have previously heard the bearing program, such things that are already realized or at the end of the realization, but it is not clear what will be the new mainstream of this new coalition. We know or perceive only what will happen and what this mainstream, which will be redesigned, will oppose. There have been withdrawals of coalition parties from the coalition. Many of the parties now leaving entered into a contract for Slovenia 2012-2015. And now these parties, at least some, are entering a new coalition. I hope not in any contract against Slovenia. The approach and formation of the coalition seem quite confusing to me. In this new form, they are trying to bring together parties with diametrically opposite positions, of which two, at least in the main two areas – governance with state assets and bad banks, will certainly be present in this new coalition, two diametrically opposite concepts. It will be interesting whether the coalition will have 4 parties, or whether it will be a coalition of 3 plus 1, 2 plus 2, or whether it will be another formation, because some of the parties who will enter this new coalition will have to radically change their views if they join this programme, this government team. I guess a lot of things are gonna have to get on their heads if they want things to look right. It is likely that it will be difficult to defend the state holding company and the bad bank during this period, building an economic, financial, judicial and other policy of the country, to talk about transparency, and then to join a coalition that will do everything to stop these two projects. One of the presidents of a potential new coalition, Virant, speaks of the Slovenian State Holding and Bad Bank defending the coalition in a new coalition. At the same time, he performed the lustration of his Minister Šuštersič, who was carrying out both important projects at the request of one of the likely future coalition partners, the Social Democrats. In this case, former Minister Šuštersič is not burdened by any report from any of the independent institutions.) Already in this process, a kind of lustration was carried out on stock and long before Jankovic's long-needed withdrawal, although all those who will likely join this coalition conditioned participation in this coalition exclusively with Jankovic's withdrawal from the political space, with his unconditional resignation from all functions. All those who demanded it must now swallow a strong, big cm. Jankovic remains in politics and in Positive Slovenia, the mayor remains because no one is bothered by this executive function after the new, not by the National List, not by the Social Democrats, not by DeSUS, and remains a grey eminence of Positive Slovenia, because there is a quarter of the parliamentary group that is present in the city world among its supporters. The early elections, which have been widely discussed, were obviously for all coalition parties, except for the Slovenian Democratic Party, only a public demonstration. Now no one's talking about it anymore. They are no longer talking about what is necessary for early elections, but they are talking about a government for a mandate that will be somewhat longer. Some took radical changes during the night, even though they had already predicted the date of the early elections. On June 16th this year, the date of the early elections was supposed to be. One of them probably even had an electoral headquarters, at least that's what one of the political parties said. However, it appears that the social democrats, in particular in this regard, have experienced a transformation of Luksic, President. It happened that he lost his guard, a parliamentary group that had completely different interests than the party's president. This client has nothing new to do with it. Even in the previous term, when the Prime Minister was Prime Minister, such stories took place in many fundamental matters, such as the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, the austerity measures with increased indebtedness and elsewhere. We are in a situation where everything is going on in some backstage outside the parties and the views of potential partners in a potential new coalition change as the April weather. Now everyone's talking about the government for at least a year, if not for the entire term. Even Virant, at the outset the most vocal advocate of the early elections, based his long letter on good government solutions for a longer period of time. He wrote that this solution is good because the Civil Code allows what she dreamed of after the elections – the election of a non-Janša and not Jankovic – even because they will be able to propose the best personnel to the new government, by having the first name, Janez Šuštersič, already mirrored, and, crucially, they have found that their position after the elections will not be so strong. For the Citizens' List, entering the new government is necessary because of fear of a poor result in the elections. I don't remember ever having such an unrestrained way to set up both the National Assembly and the government. Both institutions have a decisive impact on the development of the country and its position in the international environment. Without the program, without a serious agreement and with the sole goal of withdrawing from the political scene Janez Janša, one single politician – this is the only goal we are witnessing and it is obvious that Janez Janša is the great pain of many, both on the left and on the right side of the political space. It's hard to get rid of the feeling that you wouldn't think that you're all playing that famous game of Marjanca and you're all hoping that when this Marjana falls down, that the field that says, "They all get, except for SDS." Maybe you'll get away with it, but I don't think you will. The programme will obviously not be presented for a while, but I think it would be good for potential coalition partners to agree at least on key issues, on key development solutions – on governance of state assets, on a bad bank, on what will happen to the public sector, for example, on health, where we see that the Social Democrats' programme is a public service programme, on mass-processing, and in practice even the closest relatives of the current leader of this socialist party participate in the privatisation of health. There's been a lot of flowers like that by now. The anti-corruption commission or the corruption commission was used to attack Prime Minister Janez Janso, as the Prime Minister of the Government said in the introduction. It wasn't used for the first time. In 2008, Patrio's affair took place. Even then, the President of this Commission was actively involved in commenting, making statements on this matter, and nothing or a word was recorded in the work of this Commission for that year. The trial against the most responsible in this case, against former Minister Erjavac and former Chief of Staff Gutman, has long been concluded in the courts. When this was over, the story opened with a trial against the current Prime Minister, Janez Janša. They were both forgiven, and the trial against Janez Janša just runs and runs and doesn't end. The current Senate of the Commission has also issued a report which has been used to attack and cause the coalition to break down. Not for what would be logical, not to agree with the way the coalition works, the results of the coalition's work, but because a document that poses some supposed risk has been used, some judgment that something does not count on the President's assets. At the same time, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia did not have the assets of the President of this Commission, which is worth roughly the same as what is evident to the President of the Government. The fact is, it wasn't done. That's where it's supposed to be. In a way, it's about using special disguised methods and means, not some other thing. As far as the new government is concerned, the start is similar to at the beginning of this mandate. Mr Möderndorfer is the first to be signed under the amendment of the Government Act. It was the same at the beginning of January last year. Before anything happened, a new piece of government law was prepared, trying to redistribute some things like an introduction, some overture into another matter. I must say that only on the basis of this change will something important happen. Madam candidate for a term of office said a few things in the introduction. In particular, that the behaviour of the coalition must be based on ethics, ethical standards, that they must be based on a legal basis, including legal and social notes, etc. However, when we look at the candidate's biography – I have to say that the file is quite busy – we can see from the publications that it did not contribute much to the solutions where it was, but mainly to the problems. The most important issue is the monitoring of the state budget – during the period when the Director of the Directorate for Budget was the largest deficit. She was a member of the Supervisory Boards at the New Credit Bank Maribor, where criminal proceedings are under way, including in the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, where criminal proceedings are also under way. Recently there has been talk of irregularities related to the operation of the Public Institute of Brdo. There was also a member of the Supervisory Board, etc. There's also a story about the master's work. There's also an obvious plagiarism. For unknown reasons, media interest in this matter is minimal, but it is a master's degree, paid, covered by state money. When we find out or suspect any matter about it, our MPs get a 24-hour media escort. In this case, there are clearly double criteria. I must say that I am concerned that someone who is not yet a prime minister who has not yet formed a government is already talking in advance about what they will do when they arrive, what will be the first step. It is already here that there will be no more debate about the profession — what has been particularly highlighted in this introduction — but, above all, who has ever been appointed. The call for resignation is probably not a call to the profession, but a call directed at the basis of a political action. I must say that this is an action that will probably not contribute much to any change in this area. Although the vote on the candidate is secret, I will tell you that we will not support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable candidate! I can't say hello to the president. Messengers and Members! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the Government, which is part of the problem and not the prospect of getting out of the crisis, must be replaced as soon as possible. Not only in recent weeks, but since its performance, but especially after a significant fall in support and after a serious breach before a solid coalition, we have seen the harmful behaviour of this government, which instead of the social situation of people, is concerned only with political staffing. The government building on intimidation needs to be replaced with a government whose first tasks will be job creation, creating a perspective for young people and fostering economic growth. The lack of professional arguments, strategies, analyses, measures and their consequences cannot replace stubborn insistence on measures they have found elsewhere that they do not deliver the expected results. It is necessary to replace the Government, whose priorities are still rigorously saving and excessively shrinking the public sector, even though a large part of the professional public has shown that this is not a recipe for getting out of the crisis, and although we have heard the recognition of strict austerity policy makers from international monetary institutions that their forecasts have been misleading. It cannot be an example of Latvia, even if it is praised for its savings success, because they force people out of the country, halve the public sector, etc. It would be better if we set an example for Iceland. The priorities of the new government must be investing in human resources, investing in development and the future of Slovenia. The government has blindly heeded calls for strict austerity measures in principle rather than too little, and has overlooked that the loudest have not reduced investment in knowledge and development, education and science. The government, which has 13% of its support, does not have the legitimacy to demand people's confidence and support for reform measures, but has itself heard calls for a social consensus on what kind of country we want to live in. The outcome of the crisis cannot be built on deepening the conflict between the real and public sectors, but nothing can be done to improve the quality of public sector services. The economic policy of the doctrine of shock must be replaced by an economic policy that will give people and the economy hope that everything will be done to save jobs and that the burdens of the crisis will be evenly distributed. Increasing social inequalities for Social Democrats is not acceptable. Threatening by the Greek scenario does not promote economic growth and does not strengthen confidence in the domestic and international public; it does not promote creativity, the necessary self-confidence and active citizenship. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regretted that the Government did not choose for 2012 a prudent and gradual consolidation of public finances that would not have acted against economic growth. The reduction in the public expenditure of the State budget by 350 million in 2012 means that the state budget has affected the reduction of economic growth directly and indirectly in the amount of twice the reduction in public consumption or about 2% of the gross domestic product. At the time of the rebalancing, we drew attention to this and referred to the analysis of the International Monetary Fund on rapid savings, which poses a major threat to economic recovery. Last year, the International Monetary Fund acknowledged that it underestimated the impact of fiscal consolidation on economic growth. Therefore, the value of the fiscal multiplier is between 0.9 and 1.1. This means that the reduction of the structural deficit by 1.9% of gross domestic product in 2012 results in a fall in gross domestic product from 1.71% of GDP to a maximum of 3.2% of GDP. On the Committee, the Minister of Finance explained that the structural deficit was expected to decrease by 1.5% of GDP in 2013. This means an additional decline in GDP in 2013 to a lower level than it was in 2009. The government has promised to establish a transparent capital investment management body. The holding company did not do so because holding is the most untransparent form of government property management. The classification sent to the National Assembly is considered only as a property sale programme and as a threat to up to 100,000 jobs. It envisions the sale of geostrategic companies such as Luka Koper and Aerodrome, and successful companies such as Krka. The government wants to sell even Telekom, a high-tech company, which is also important for national security. As a result, the looting logic of the management of state property must be replaced with an independent and clearly accountable body to the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I believe that the President of the Government was given a lapsus when he spoke of the corruption commission. What are the economic and reform successes of the government in 2012? For the economic success of the government, we certainly cannot count the collapse of constructionists such as the Bežigrad Construction Company, the Kraška zizar and Primorje. Where are the Government's measures for new jobs? Where are the Government's jobs conservation measures? The number of persons employed fell below 800 000 for the first time in December 2012 after March 2013. In December, the number of active workers fell seven months in a row. Since May 2012, there has been a decrease of 24,000 people and more than 12,000 people in December alone. At the end of December last year, 792 thousand 948 people were working in Slovenia. Also, data on the number of unemployed already show a rapid deterioration in the situation in January 2013. At the end of January 2013, 124 thousand 258 unemployed persons were registered in the institution, 5.2% more than in December 2012. The situation in the labour market is deteriorating and an active employment policy will need to be adapted to the new situation, with particular attention being paid to the employment of the permanently unemployed, over 55 years of age and in particular to the employment of young people. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the first step that will be taken by a constructive vote will be to stop the harmful policy pursued by the existing Government with Ivan Janez Janša at the helm and to open the way for a new mandate-holder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of Nationals, Dr. Gregor Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u54	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support a constructive non-trust. We would therefore like to contribute to cutting political agony from the publication of the Commission's report on anti-corruption since 8 January this year. It is true that I was informed of the report the day before, as did the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly were informed that the Commission had completed its work and that the report would be published, informed, but not the contents of the report. In this report, I quote: "The Commission found a systematic and repeated breach of the legal obligation to report on cash, securities and changes in financial assets in bank accounts worth over EUR 2.4 million with respect to the debtor Zoran Jankovic, Positive Slovenia. The Commission also found that part of the financial inflows, EUR 208 000, had arrived at the personal bank account of a chain transaction debtor operating in a company operating with the Municipality of Ljubljana during the 4 months 2011. These funds are not only undeclared to the Commission, but are also heavily burdened by corruption risks, risks of illegal lobbying, conflicts of interest in the broadest sense and suspicions of abuse of the situation. The Commission has identified multiple infringements of the legal obligation to report on the property situation with respect to the availability of cash, property ownership, ownership of movable property and the acquisition of guarantees and guarantees with respect to the debtor Janez Janša, SDS. Furthermore, the Commission found that the assets of the debtor increased by at least EUR 210 000 over the period under control, in a disproportionate and unexplained manner, according to established official sources of income and property. The Commission also concluded that, during the period under review, the undertaking acquired an asset advantage of approximately EUR 100 000 as a form of co-financing of the purchase of real estate from a private company with a legal business to the detriment of that company, with the Commission finding that the transaction was burdened with significant corruption risks and suspicions of abuse of the situation." Such burdensome findings of the competent state institution cannot be placed under the carpet if we are to live in a legal country where the rules apply to all, including the highest authorities. It is not only the amounts mentioned in the report, but it is a concern that this would not become a model of action that can fall from the top into all of society's seasons. The President of the largest government party and the frozen or divan-defunct president of the largest opposition party by their conduct described in the KPK report send an unacceptable message to citizens that there is no need to adhere to the laws, that there is no need to act transparently, and that the fact that someone does not know, cannot or does not explain the origin of his property is no problem at all. You tell them that in this country, all those citizens who play by the rules are ordinary naive. Many will ask themselves, "Why would I follow the rules, for example, if the highest authorities were to be quick about the law?" Such negative examples inevitably lead to the definitive erosion of the rule of law and a loss of confidence in the country. The mutual trust and trust in the institutions of power is, Confucius said more than 2 thousand 500 years ago, a fundamental condition of co-existence in society. Such difficult findings by the competent national authority according to European standards, which we often stress, require a derogation from public functions. Fortunately, the KPK report was not swept under the carpet. Some political parties, in particular the National List, the Social Democrats, DeSUS and SLS, have called on both political champions, who are burdened by the findings of the KPK, to resign from all public functions. The Civil Code believed in a coalition treaty signed on 25 January last year. We have entered the right-centre coalition because, in the area of economy, public finances and urgent public sector reforms, the programme was closer to us. The Citizens' List is a liberal party who does not believe that individuals can live off the grace of the state and on credit, but we must do our best for our standard and do something with our hands and knowledge. Here our views are closer to the right centre, so such a coalition during the economic and public financial crisis was a logical choice. We were active and loyal coalition partners. Our ministers in the government have made intensive commitments under the coalition treaty. The Minister of Finance was responsible for key government projects. On the basis of his efforts and the efforts of his colleagues in the government, including with the support of the President of the Government, public spending has been structurally reduced for the first time by the 2012 budget rebalancing in history. We have significantly reduced the budget deficit, from 5.7 to 4.2% of GDP. It wasn't about saving. It was an inevitable reduction in public spending in order to reduce the gap between the funds in the budget and those consumed by the State. Work has begun on the rehabilitation of banks and reforms in the management of state assets. However, we can have different views on the concepts of solving these problems, we had to start. The Civil Code has never violated a coalition treaty. We acted as free-mindedly as a liberal party, sometimes voting differently from the largest government party, but never contrary to the coalition treaty. There was a lot of interference in the coalition. Opening up ideological issues like banishing the constables from the national celebration – unnecessary. Renaming barracks — unnecessary. Cemetery of intervention in pension rights of ideologically selected categories of beneficiaries, Article 143 ZUJF. Political recruitment of the largest government party without critical professional judgement. Often offensive and cynical communication with the public, at a time of crisis, when we should communicate with a great deal of emotion. At a time when we are in crisis, we need to listen to each other even more, and with so much empathy, we need to talk to different social groups, not the other way around. Often a demeaning attitude toward the honest views of the Citizen’s List, but what do you do with your eight or seven parliamentary votes? We were disturbed by a lot of things, but we remained a faithful coalition partner, because of the interests of the country, because of the government's crisis exit projects. As far as we're concerned, the coalition could hold out until the end of the term. We offered the Prime Minister an opportunity to preserve the coalition. We wanted to continue the implementation of the coalition agreement, but the offer that the largest government party would choose the second, corruption-free mandate-holder came across deaf ears and smiles. That is all we need to do, and all the projects we're talking about would move on. Not the government, not the ministers, not the coalition, not the members of the coalition parties – for the National List, the problem was the Prime Minister of the Government, who was under the unbearable burden of finding the KPK. However, Mr Janša obviously did not exist until the preservation of the Middle Right Coalition and the Government. He has clearly and unequivocally put himself in the position of the king of the sun. Coalition, it's me, Government, it's me, the state, it's me. Instead of giving Mr Janša and his client a self-critical look at the mirror and acknowledging that the burdensome findings of the State authority are a serious problem to be faced, the accusations, insults and cynical remarks have begun to fall all around. First, I was alone with Goran Klemenčič, then Karl Erjavec, then Radovan Žerjav, then Alenka Bratušek and many others. They didn't choose words. The culture of public communication has fallen to the lowest possible level. "The sale of a dog princess", "the worst economic minister of all time", "virtage", "left fascism", "mandat which will be inversely proportional to the length of the coat of arms" – this is the flowerber of this verbal cemetery, which was granted to us by the SDS party. Dear colleagues, there are many good people among you. Do you really have to be a part of this? You are now the largest party to the former coalition, a party that should be an example of state-of-the-art, respect for the institutions of the rule of law, political culture. What example is set by this offensive communication for young people in this country? Is it true that when things don't go your way, everyone else is guilty? Is it really allowed to go that low in this case? Were you really not able to say good-bye to coalition partners who simply used their free will and for very legitimate reasons left the coalition? The government has been abandoned by three coalition partners. Out of 11 district ministers, six have resigned. Thus, the government has only five local ministers and a secretary without a licence, without a resort. Public support fell to 15%, the number that Janez Janša considered to be the absolute ground for the resignation of the Prime Minister two years ago. Apparently, this criterion applies only to other prime ministers. If he has not already decided to resign, he should, as Borut Pahor did in 2011, request a vote on the confidentiality. In every normal democratic European country, the Prime Minister would do so at the time of such a fall in public and parliamentary support. This, respected colleagues, is the alphabet of political culture. A vote on the confidential would allow for an immediate early election, somewhere in mid-April. We all knew, and we know today, that according to our Constitution, the only key to early elections was the President of the Government. By summer we would have had a new government composed on the basis of a fresh electoral outcome, but no, instead we have witnessed the grave takeover of all human resources positions, brutal political cleansings, party rallying, terrifying connotations about left-wing fascism, the protective role of the military and police, and so on. No criteria other than a client card are available for the session of the public administration and of the supervisory boards of companies. People who have worked successfully as experts for many years in their jobs get a notice this morning that they have to empty the office by three o’clock in the afternoon, after being replaced by a candidate with questionable competences. Destroying, incinerator logic. We have also witnessed the irresponsible behaviour of the President of the Government in regulating open issues with Croatia. At the meeting of the Presidents of Parliament's parties, on 14 February with the President of the Republic, Mr Pahor, Foreign Minister Erjavec presented the agreement reached with Croatian counterpart Pusic. This is a well-founded, legally-provided solution that satisfies Slovenian interests. Instead of supporting the next steps of a successful foreign minister, the President of the Government withdrew him from the negotiating process the next day and instead sent him to the crane of a diplomat who had never dealt with this issue before without at least hinting at that meeting with the President of the Republic. Completely irresponsible behavior and a change of attitude overnight — so much for changing attitudes. If the President of the Government does not want a confidant who will only open the way to the elections, the only constitutional possibility of the opposition is a constructive non-trust. That's our constitution. He repeatedly called John Janša himself to file a constructive mistrust, and he challenged him with the words: "To see a hero." The hero wasn't found, but the hero was found. The government of Janez Janša will complete its mandate quite well. Too bad you could end it with honor, remembering her achievements and the undisputed leadership skills of her president. It could be kept in mind as a disciplined, working leader to the objectives of a targeted leader who supported a wide range of critical reforms for the country. We could keep the government in mind after the successful work of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and some others, after a successful pension reform and beyond. The Prime Minister could be remembered as a leader who could withdraw when it was time to give priority to the state, the government and the coalition, but he gathered a second path. Now a few words about the proposed candidate for Prime Minister. Alenka Bratušek is a relatively fresh face in politics. She has accumulated experience, among other things, in the key area of government, the Directorate for Budget. She cooperated with the left and right governments — and I have this experience myself, as an expert with the left and right governments — and earned respect for all because of her professional and hard work. Even in the first Janša government, along with the late Dr. Bajuk, one of the best financial ministers in Slovenia at all times, after my opinion – a wonderful man and a great financial minister – she served as the Director-General of the Directorate for Budget. This is probably the most influential city in the state administration, comparable to almost the minister's. The budget director shall be called by ministers on the phone when funds need to be provided. As a coworker, I've known her for 13 years, and I think she's from the right material for the function she's competing for. She is an expert, intelligent, intellectually honest person, a person with whom it can be negotiated and also arranged. In the management of the technology, the government can't argue with the current Prime Minister. For my taste, this is not bad at all, but it must be realized that survival in a world of politics without these skills is unfortunately difficult, so it will not be easy. I have no doubt that Alenka Bratusek can become a good prime minister. It is also good that Slovenia today receives its first Prime Minister, who is a woman's sex. From the appointment of a mandate-holder to the formation of a government, there is a long and thorny path. Today we're giving Alenka Bratsek a chance. If today's opposition parties reach reasonable compromises and conclude a coalition agreement, and if the mandate-holder proposes a competent ministerial team, we will get a new government in March that will most likely lead Slovenia to early elections next spring. If that doesn't work, we'll be voting this June. Today's constructive distrust opens the way to a new government or immediate early elections. In both cases, Alenka Bratušek will be enrolled in Slovenian political history as a person who, with the support of five parties, ended an unsustainable political agony. As we are talking today about the constructive non-trust of the Government, the main part of the focus is on one of the two policies hampered by the KPK report. In doing so, we must not forget Zoran Jankovic. In the Civil Gazette, we are not thrilled with the colloquials, the freezing of functions and the Bianca retreats. We will not join the government with a party whose president, although frozen, would be Zoran Jankovic. We are also not thrilled with the silent responses of colleagues from Positive Slovenia to the burdensome findings of the KPK. Those who claim that two-thirds of the Slovenian Parliament is in some way contaminated, as so many Members cannot distance themselves from their burdened presidents. The citizens' list will also remain when asked to resign Zoran Jankovic from the function of Ljubljana Mayor. We don't have that power at the state level. It will need to be implemented at local level. To this end, we have already tabled a law in the parliamentary procedure allowing the mayor to be recalled. We expect the support of all parliamentary parties. Many times the National Gazette is referred to as a party who changes its views. I'd like to hear a case where the Civil Code changed its mind. If changing your mind is that once you agree with each other, it's not a change of attitude, it's some kind of surviving logic that has to go into oblivion in this country. Not to change one’s mind and to be faithful is to be faithful to one’s values and principles, not to that leader or to that leader. The civil record does not measure its principle and consistency by loyalty to John Janša, but by loyalty to its views and values. If we should already refer to cases of customers who change their views and turn them around like a sock, we should look elsewhere. Let's just look, say, at the SDS' position on the referendum. When we are in opposition, there is a world referendum and an inseparable right that must not be changed by a millimeter. When we are in the government, we need to quickly cut out the referendum so that we do not have problems with governance – these are key strategic topics for the country. But in the media, we're going to hear that the National List is changing its mind, not some SDS, but let's just leave it. In time, we will show and prove how someone thinks. The new government, if created, will have to continue a number of projects launched by the Janša government. The resolution of the banking system by reforming the governance of state assets and consolidating public finances will have to be pursued as a matter of priority. Infrastructure projects, construction of Sava power plants, third development axis will also need to be launched. Janša’s government was weak in this regard. It will be necessary to strengthen the rule of law, in particular the prosecution of economic crime. It will be necessary for the courts to assist and provide the necessary resources and legislative framework, but also to require their results. It will be necessary to continue with the relentless de-de-mobilisation of the country and to remove obstacles to the prosperity of the industries, for which we have every opportunity, given the naturalities. I'm thinking about the wood industry in particular. The government, if designed, will be given a mandate in a difficult, ungrateful situation, but will be given a great opportunity to address the challenge of the economic crisis. Her first task will be to change the atmosphere in a country that has become extremely negative, pessimistic, apathetic. Not only concrete measures, but also a way of communicating will be important, and this has been adequately highlighted by the candidate in her address. We need a government with emotional intelligence that can talk. We need a government that will give citizens and citizens the feeling that we are here to serve the people. We will also need connectivity, openness to comments and opposition proposals. More heads know more and it is best that political decisions arise as a result of dialogue and taking into account different views. In this way, decisions taken are also more widely acceptable and easier to implement. You will not see a citizen's list in a government that will not be committed to these goals. We will not be stubborn and capricious in the negotiations, but we will also be responsible negotiators. We have our values and principles that we will not deviate from. We'll have the welfare of the country in front of us all the time, I believe the rest of us will be at the negotiating table. We will all have to forget our egos and political prestige, listen to each other and listen to each other's expertise and be focused on an agreement. We must enter this story without prejudice or exclusion. Declarations on the exclusion of certain persons, other than those which are unacceptable due to the burden of corruption, are not good. Statements, say that one or the other cannot be a minister in this government, specifically Dr. Šuštersič, are not acceptable. This is not a good negotiation trip. Let me make it clear at this point that the National Gazette wanted to do so and that it still wishes for Vice-President Dr. Šuštersič to participate in the government. He himself has decided not to cooperate and we invite him – and I am sure he will do so responsibly – to participate at least in negotiations in which some of his good solutions will have to be defended. The citizens' list is a democratic party. With us, it's different than with SDS. There's a debate on our organs, a discussion. Everyone gives their opinion, we end up voting, and if someone disagrees with the position of the President or if the outcome of the vote is not 120% and 0% against it, it does not mean that the party is dismembered, dismembered and I do not know what. This is a different way of doing things, and this must be accepted. The fundamental difference between us and Dr. Shutterschitch was the following. We both agreed that early elections would be the best solution, only that he felt that it would be okay if Janša's government continued its work and chose the date of the elections on its own, but I thought that the agony with the Janša government should be brought to an end immediately. I'm concluding. The coordination of the new government and coalition will begin tomorrow. The opening performance of the candidate was promising for coordination. He was an optimistic, positive speech. It is also important for the negotiations to stress dialogue, compromise and co-existence. If we all succeed in the negotiations together, we will see each other in the government, or else in the elections this spring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we took time to have a thorough discussion and held a broad debate on today's vote on the constructive mistrust of the government of Janez Janša. We wondered whether supporting a constructive non-truster meant fulfilling our goal — the early elections. Not necessarily, another majority can make a different decision, but after the whole of Slovenia saw that it has a legal hole in the legislation, when the government can run the country without support in Parliament and without half the ministers, we have reached the point today that after weeks of political overtures we have the opportunity to end the current political crisis. However, after many debates and debates, it seems as if we are forgetting why this government has collapsed. In our view, to the greatest extent due to the lack of what we often miss in Slovenian politics – the ability to recognise mistakes, the ability to step back and calm the situation. Again, we have witnessed the fortification on the trenches instead of doing everything in the given situation for the normal continuation of the work of the government coalition. The sincere wish of the Slovenian People's Party was to continue to participate in the coalition that last year. Although there were many different opinions in the coalition, we were linked by a common goal – to pull Slovenia out of the economic crisis. This joint work programme, which is generally not popular, is not like, does not bring political points, meets what needs to be done and which we will not be able to avoid under any government. Rationalisation of too high public spending, structural reforms, improvement of the business environment for our companies, intensive use of European funds, rehabilitation of the banking system – these are projects that bring changes to our space. The changes require greater public support, but the current government has lost this support definitively in the moment when there was no response to the anti-corruption commission report, no action required. Unfortunately, all the credibility needed to continue the reform process and implement the anti-crisis measures has been lost. Why? Because people, our citizens, today demand more or less just one – a just society provided by a functioning rule of law. If we're going to get the politicians excited about the rule of law institutions just because we don't like them, then we don't have a mandate to save this country anymore. Today, only a third of Parliament's support is provided by the current government, only half its ministers are operationally and fully operationally, and public support is virtually null and void. The Slovenian People's Party's Leadership has therefore adopted conclusions with a very clear timeline. The first request for the replacement of the Prime Minister by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which would be the most responsible solution, has not been met. The current President of the Government also did not propose a vote on the confidentiality of the National Assembly. Discussions on the technical or project government were also unsuccessful. The next and final step of the Slovenian People's Party is very clear. Citizens and citizens must be given the opportunity to re-elect and trust the representatives they represent in the National Assembly. For as many as 54 Members of the current composition of the National Assembly are arbitrarily charged with serious charges at the expense of their two apparently irreplaceable political Februarys. Thus, a constructive untrustworthy woman is currently the only and also the last chance to get Slovenia on the road to early elections. Here we want to be very clear in the Slovenian People's Party. For us, the support of constructive non-trusters has only one purpose: to lead the country to early elections. The way to this end will be completely open as of today, if the non-disclosure is voted on. We have promised this in the Slovenian People's Party, and we are now fulfilling this promise, unlike many other parties in which early elections were promised, but they have apparently changed in recent days. The only problem with us Members of the Slovenian People's Party is that we must give a parallel vote to the candidate for Mrs Alenka Bratušek in order to fulfil what we have set out to do. It is therefore right to make it quite clear today, Madam Candidate, that the votes of the majority of members of the Slovenian People's Party will be obtained today exclusively and only for one project – early elections. For anything else, such or any other kind of overplay in forming governments, you don't have our support. Why? Because Mrs Alenka Bratušek is a representative of Positive Slovenia, a party that has also failed to be able to define itself clearly until the charges are made at the expense of its President and make concrete moves. Whatever you do and avoid at this time, Zoran Jankovic is still President of Positive Slovenia. Zoran Jankovic himself said that he is still a potential candidate for continuing his presidency at your congress. Under the auspices of Positive Slovenia, Zoran Jankovic is still the mayor of Slovenia's largest municipality, and in this Chamber there are members of Positive Slovenia who, as city councilors in the Ljubljana City Council, give legitimacy to all his actions in running the Ljubljana municipality. These are facts that are not acceptable to us and on the basis of which the Party of Positive Slovenia cannot lead this country. Once again, Madam Candidate, you do not have any Bianca or any other support from the Slovenian People's Party. Unfortunately, the instrument of a constructive non-trust institution also includes a candidate for a mandate, and this is what we take in the Slovenian People's Party as our priority is to close the current political blockade. Most of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support constructive distrust and we will follow our commitments strictly in the Slovenian People's Party. We also expect in the party that the expectations of the Slovenian People's Party will be followed by you and lead this country to the early early elections and thus at least a little restore the confidence of our citizens and citizens in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u58	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to government representatives and colleagues and colleagues! I will introduce you to the position of the DeSUS Group on the constructive mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where we also had two ministers in DeSUS, three state secretaries – and we estimate that their work in this government was good or very good – and also proposals for the election of the new President of the Government of Slovenia, mag. Alenke Bratusek. Today we are not talking about the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, because it would be bad or because it would not work towards a solution to the economic crisis. On the contrary, during the time of this government, we have managed to achieve some positive shift towards consolidating public finances and adopting the necessary structural reforms. The pension reform was adopted by virtually unanimous agreement, which has been a success for the National Assembly in all this clarification of Slovenian politics. With all the negative consequences of the economic crisis, it is likely that the shortcomings and errors of Slovenian policy have been revealed. At the same time, we can see that disintegration, inability to cooperate for the common good are not the only problems. The most pressing problem is the lack of moral values and the inability to accept responsibility for own actions. The latter is evident after the publication of the Commission's report on the prevention of corruption, both by Zoran Jankovic and by the previous Prime Minister Janez Janša. The fact is, you don't know or want to explain the source of a certain piece of your property. By his insistence on his position, Mr. John Janša did not cast aside the suspicion of corruption. On the contrary, when he did not resign from the post of Prime Minister, he exacerbated the political crisis and pushed Slovenia even deeper into the abyss. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that a tense political situation must be calmed first, only then will Slovenia be able to return to the path of recovery and we will have the opportunity to restore the confidence of citizens in the institutions of the rule of law. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that early elections in the given situation would be the worst possible solution. They would throw Slovenia into the so-called 6-month dead course, to deepen economic agony and extend credit cramps for a year or more. Due to political instability, as a country in the international community, we would lose all the credibility we still have. Remember, a good year ago, we faced early elections and the resulting blockades in the substantive part of the legislative branch of the government demanded their tax, which was hung on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. For all the reasons listed in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the only solution to the situation is to vote on the non-trust of the government of Janez Janša or the election of Mrs Magi. Alenke Bratušek as the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and we will unanimously support her. Ladies mag. This will give the brother the opportunity to form a new government in the coming days to break this chaotic political situation and continue to adopt the necessary structural reforms, to solve the problems and mistakes of the banking sector and to develop an effective economic programme that will enable economic growth and employment of people. In our Group of Members, we are aware that the will of the people in the elections will have to be re-examined as soon as possible. This is likely to be required by people at conventions, in our markets, and in the streets. Ah, ma'am, ma'am. Bratušek should be given time and thus the opportunity to prove that there is still hope for Slovenian politics and that it is able to overcome mutual rivalry to take its own advantage. But, Mrs. Mag. Brother, let me warn you that there is not much time left, which I hope you are aware of. Slovenia does not stand against the fall, our country is on the brink of collapse. The election for the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia means that we place a lot of trust in you and even more responsibility. Let you be guided by high moral and ethical principles, responsibility for citizens and the ability to cooperate and compromise. To sum up, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, which is the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supports Mrs Mag. Alenko Bratušek, which also gives us an untrustworthy statement to the government of Mr Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text is by the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u60	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister of New Slovenia, welcome! Those of you who are already in this House – I think we were about 50 new candidates in this mandate, 40 of you have already sat in this House – will probably remember in 2011. Because of the great disappointment of that situation, we all wanted early elections, and we also received this early election. I must admit, the results of the early elections were a surprise. We were all expecting changes. Changes in the sense that those who represented a different attitude from the current government will win. But there have been certain conversions and things and people have put themselves in their place, just as they are today in Parliament. The web of different circumstances, perhaps too little precise counting, too little substantive coordination, led to the fact that the New Slovenia and the other four parties were able to form a government at that time. You know, the situation was not easy and many who were still sitting in the opposition today, and before that you were sitting in the coalition, you admitted in the halls, "It is not easy for you and believe me, we do not want to be in your skin." But now you'll obviously get this chance. Despite the difficult circumstances, I can expose at least five projects that will go one way or another into the history of this government. I think when we look at them with a distance of time, they'll be appraised positively. These are ZUJF, pension reform, bad bank, SDH, budget and, as labour market reform also shows. There was a lot of ink spilled about the ZUJF, and a lot of it was said. But as the facts show, this was one of the key and essential things for regulating, balancing public finances. It is simply not possible to balance public finances differently than to try to balance revenue and expenditure as much as possible. Everything else is a fairy tale. At least I can't imagine anyone seeking to balance public finances and not seeking to equalise income and expenditure. Retired reform. It is followed by a sustainable system at least until 2020. Bad bank. The foundations are laid for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, which does not perform the tasks it should perform for the economy. They do not service the Slovenian economy to this extent as the economy would like. You know cases elsewhere in the world, but apart from this case, other cases have proven to be ineffective in history. In the rehabilitation of the banks, we have wasted 1,000 500 million euros, and there are no results. It's obviously the only thing we have left. Hard words were used about the state holding company, but someone used a very simple comparison at some confrontation. He said, "Holding is something like if you wanted to drive from point A to point B. You can use five different cars, but all people and all passengers can go on one bus and get together to this final goal." It's a budget. We have also heard a lot of dissatisfaction from the opposition in recent months, but remember that this budget has also been supported by some in the opposition. I consider this to be a good thing and you have shown some affection and willingness to cooperate. The reform of the labour market awaits us tomorrow. Some of today’s speeches were very poetic. I agree that it is necessary to give people optimism that pessimism in this country is enough, but unfortunately it is not possible to live by beautiful words. You will see, all those who sit in opposition today, who will be a new coalition tomorrow, the burden of the coalition. I want to do a lot of things, you want a lot of things, you know it's wrong, you know it's different, but things can't change tomorrow night. I'm sorry. Believe me, many of the current opposition and coalition MPs of tomorrow will be very disappointed when you place your responsibility on your own shoulders. At least for the New Slovenia Group, I can guarantee you that it will not bother you. I think that's a lot in the current situation. About the manning and all that stuff that's been exposed today. Here too, you will know that the government and the state claim things and require certain human resources decisions. That's a fact, and we can't get past it. Today there has also been a lot of talk about institutions, about the decisions of individual institutions, but the history of Slovenia or at least our own country goes in this direction that we are world recorders in disrespect of the institutions of the country. Sometimes one wonders if we deserve our country at all. Some of you don't go to state celebrations because you don't like the President of the Government and you don't distinguish between a person and an institution. Some are angry with the former President of the Republic and do not want this institution to be settled. We also have an anti-corruption commission that says something, and then we look for all sorts of reasons why it is and it isn't. I will not forget the thought given to me by an ambassador from the Western country, a European country with a long democratic tradition. He said very simply: 'Make up your mind if you have your country and your institutions. If you have them, then follow them, but if you do not want to obey them, then terminate them." I think this should be a guide to the entire National Assembly, as far as the institution is concerned. With regard to the course of events and the events following the publication of the report of the anti-corruption commission, things were ongoing and Nova Slovenija was put before the fact and decision whether to choose Slovenia on the one hand or on the other to clean up the Slovenian political space. Because of our party's state-of-the-art, we decided to go to Slovenia. Why did we choose Slovenia? Because Slovenia needed a government with full powers. Remember that in the final part of the negotiations for a new financial perspective, we had final preparations for a memorandum, which was very important for the border with Croatia, that negotiations for labour market reform were under way, that a bad bank, state holding and could still be listed. I think it was relatively clear why we decided to do so. We didn't have any other options. There was no clearly formed alternative on the other hand, and even the opposition parties had a very different programming platform and desires than we had. The more we thought, the more we found it irresponsible to leave the government coalition if we didn't have a plan to do something about it. It's very easy to tear down, but it's much harder to put together. That's what a lot of people are gonna know. We've been accused of harsh words. We have to endure how we are SDS satellites, how we support corruption. None of this is true. Look at our statements on our satellite approach to SDS. Our president said that it was acceptable for us and that it was a good solution for the SDS to offer another candidate for a mandate and save this government coalition. They made a different choice. It's their decision, and we don't get involved in that decision. We had to take this fact for granted. That Slovenia needs a government, many have been exposed today. Some of you were also talking about early elections. Let me first say something about why Slovenia needs a government today. Those of you who have sat at some financial meetings or who have had the opportunity to sit at some coalition coordination where the finance minister has reported to us, we know that we have important tasks this year regarding the acquisition of liquidity assets. Slovenia only needs several billion euros this year. That the economic crisis is at stake, that Slovenia needs decisions, that we need to reshape our political system, the Constitution and more. You all know what our responsibilities are, and now playing with early elections would be irresponsible. Why are early elections with the current electoral system no solution? In particular, if you look at a survey that you'll probably trust, so will you. That was the last survey of the diary. They did some simulation of the cities of parliament and predicted: SD – 25 Members, SDS – 20, Positive Slovenia – 12, SLS – 11, National List – 8, NSI – 8, DeSUS – 4 Members. What can be learned from this? Otherwise, a few cards may be mixed up, and a party may lose a member. New Slovenia would also double its result, but when it comes to forming a government coalition, you will find that if you want the right-centre government, that it must be composed by the same parties that have made up it so far, and if you want the left-centre coalition, that it must be composed by the same parties that are supposed to be composed today. What's the conclusion? That early elections do not solve absolutely nothing, however, Slovenia will cause a lot of grief and many problems. Those guys and girls who don't know each other or you can't make a deal today - I don't see any reason for you to agree after the early elections. That is why I place my heart on those who have left this government to behave responsibly and what they have done to us, to do to any other government coalition, even though we would like it, but it would not be responsible to Slovenia. About the new candidate for Prime Minister. We had some verbal fights, and that's what's left. I must say that this government coalition has taught many times how to solve a matter, and I am therefore pleased that it has now been given the opportunity to show how to do these things. It's not sarcasm, it's my sincere wish. Really. He probably understands that he cannot expect our votes because it would be inconsistent and also unfair to our existing coalition partners. If we insist on this government coalition, if we wanted to work for this government coalition, then unfortunately we can't support your candidacy and we want it all well. We don't want to create false hopes and expectations. I'll just tell you what, dear new coalition, don't destroy what we've been working hard to build this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. As part of the presentation of the positions of the Group, we are moving on to the final presentation. Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, members and representatives of the Government! In our view, at least at the principle level, we can look at the situation in the National Community's parliamentary group in a slightly more objective manner than is possible in the case of coalition or opposition-defined political parties. Since this is so, I should like to point out in the opening that, with our fellow Member, Mr Battelli, we very much regret that this common social boat has also sailed to the most turbulent area of the Slovenian political sea or space, partly because of its overpowered party interests. Unfortunately, today's bad feelings are so much bigger because we have too many hard-to-solvable problems ahead of us, with the highest and quantitative political consensus needed. Despite certain signs of linkage between potential new coalition partners, there are too many differences in terms of the most important current financial and economic issues – as has already been said – bad bank, state holding company, austerity policy and so on, not to mention – which does not give us any optimism, so I think that, despite different opinions, some of them would be best suited for early elections, despite all the negative prejudices and possible consequences. I will not talk about the global and concrete causes that have led to the situation and even to today's decision, because much has already been said about this from different perspectives. However, it should be pointed out that the government of Janez Janša, like the former government of Borut Pahor, has acted in circumstances most likely to have been lacking in the past two decades. In addition to possible wrong decisions, it is clear that in the past year some positive trends have also been observed as the beginning of the reduction of public financial debt, the adoption of pension legislation and state budgets for two years, and perhaps more could be counted. As far as the area of operation and protection of indigenous national communities is concerned, I must point out that the Government acted as correctly as possible. This applies to both the Prime Minister and the Ministries, which are more closely linked by the nature of the work to the problems of the national communities. In doing so, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration and, to a certain extent, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which, both in the most important decisions and in operational matters, has been particularly encouraged in the spirit of Articles 11 and 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Although minor problems have arisen in the placement of the Nationality Service in the structure of the Ministry of the Interior, this may have affected the late preparation and adoption of a general law on the indigenous national community, which unfortunately is still not available, although much effort has been made, and perhaps a little superficial consideration of our proposals regarding the systemic change in the provision of an economic base to the indigenous national community. However, overall the area of solving the problem of indigenous national communities in the past year was appropriate, which could also be a good starting point for a possible new coalition. Regardless of the outcome of today's vote on the new term of office, thanks are due to the current government for this relationship and the work done. As regards today's decision on a new candidate or candidate, I must reiterate that we are in a rather difficult situation from our point of view. The guidelines for the possible new government coalition regarding the realization of the rights of indigenous national communities have not been clearly presented so far, and we know only certain intentions. I assume that the substantive issues of the coalition contract, I claim, will be formulated in the coming days. At that time, it will be time to define this issue, and I stress that Members of the national communities are never an integral part of the coalition, which is also the only right and right. However, cooperation is desirable and urgent. This seems important to me because one of our most important fundamental conditions in supporting all governments or mandate holders is to take into account the important requirements of the national communities based on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. During these expectations, I only mention the adoption as soon as possible of the already mentioned General Law on the National Community, which is prepared to a certain extent, of the improvement of the system of creating the economic basis of the national community, which also favours the region or the national mixed area as a whole, the upgrading of bilingual business in public administration and at the local level, the provision of stable and development-oriented activities of national institutions or institutions that also implement national programmes in the field of education, culture, science and information. Secondly, the decisive condition in our decision on the candidate is that the candidate or candidate or the government will have an absolute parliamentary majority later, with at least 46 votes cast by Members and Members without our vote. The essence and justification of such a decision, which we have repeatedly presented in the public, so today I will not do so, enjoys the unanimous support of all legitimate bodies of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities. For all I have said, I am very closely following the content of today's debates and all the arguments, because this will all decide when it comes to decision-making. Finally, I should like to point out that the opening words of the candidate for a candidate only have an impact on the hope of improving the general social and economic situation in Slovenia, even though, in our view, contradictions with potential coalition partners remain of considerable concern for the most pressing financial and economic issues. It also maintains that the current government, as deformed as it is, is not capable of carrying out a comprehensive activity in the field of carrying out an extremely demanding task of the executive branch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Ms Maša Kociper has the floor instead of Mr Dark Jazbec, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. After a few warnings, as well as a very good forecast by political parties, I would like to start on my own as our candidate for a terminator – more optimistic. I'll start with an old river that every new day can be a new hope for a fresh start. In this case, in particular, hope for a new, different policy and for a different and better Slovenia. The situation in the country is really bad and the worst since our independence. There is virtually no social group that would be satisfied with the situation in which it is located in the country. This year, positive Slovenia has survived in the opposition, so it cannot and does not take responsibility for the situation in the country. But we can take responsibility for the future from now on. It is quite clear that the new government cannot perform miracles and miraculously charm public finances overnight and solve all the accumulated problems. But at one point, we can all finally acknowledge that, just as it is no longer going forward and that something drastic needs to be changed, and this change can begin today. Today we can elect a new Prime Minister. Alenka Bratušek is a warm person who laughs loud and loud and connects people. She's young, new face and unburdened with politics and political baggage. This is certainly true, although some for political reasons may not agree with any of the claims. But on the other hand, they don't even agree on the length of her wing. For some it's too short and for others it'll always be too long. The new Prime Minister will form a government that can immediately decide on a different, more integrated policy today. A policy where political partners will not blindly insist on their starting points and political programmes, but will be ready for the good of the countries to take not one step back, but two steps back, to agree on the smallest common denominator and to reach some negotiated solutions. These solutions will allow dialogue to continue and this is crucial. The new government can also decide that the situation in the country is such that it does not allow competition and eternal pre-election matches between government partners, but the government must act as a team that acts in a common good and where it does not matter what individual members think. For the best possible government is also the best possible reference for those who make it. The government, like its mandate-holder, can decide that its priority is optimism, trust, hope and all that we need so badly in our country. There are still thousands of things that can be done differently from this day forward if there is real will and desire. Today can also be a new beginning for this Parliament and for all policy in general. People are tired and overcrowded. I, too, am tired and overcrowded of policies of personal discredit and insult, which – unfortunately – must be said in particular – is responsible not only for one political party in particular. When I say this, I immediately apologize to all those members of this political party who are not such. There is no doubt that there are many of them in this House. My words are intended for those, including some individuals from other parties, who use every opportunity to insult and discredit their political opponents, who abuse public speaking and parliamentary immunity to accuse people of crimes through a payphone and to spread false accusations and false statements about those who have not even uttered them, who create affairs and invent the worst possible inventions, and then launch them through their own newspapers and trumpets, which are hidden for internet comments and depersonalized through Twitters, to the lowest possible level of communication that live in hatred and exclusion and deny everyone else because they think slightly differently than they do, and who depersonalize all times of our society. We used to walk down the road with today's candidate, colleague Alenka Bratušek, and from a distance an unknown man screamed after us, "Golazen!" I can't say that I was hurt, because this year I've already gotten a lot stronger, but I asked myself once again where we came from as a society. What else did Alenka Bratušek and I do that we decided a good year ago to build up courage and try to make a difference? By the way, if Positive Slovenia were not, the situation in this country might be much worse. One political power would win with a result, as predicted, 50 plus and many, including constitutional changes would probably have been implemented long ago. Today it can also be a new start for many media in Slovenia, because they, like each other, bear their share of the blame. I want more objective media coverage, which will allow people to create their own image of things and what is going on, and less sensationalism when a journalist wants us to impose what is happening and how we should think. I want more respect at all levels, so respect for the press work, their mission and their hard work, and also greater respect for the media for all those who appear in public life. I'm afraid that if this doesn't change, that no one in this country is really going to be, no capable individual will decide on public functions and will act only in person, not in the common good. We have to be afraid of that. I would most like this to be a new day and a new start for our citizens and citizens and to restore their joy, hope and optimism. As I have already said in the debate on interpolation, it is true that the policy of throwing mud into a fan, as colleague Jakič calls it, has lethal consequences and that we are living in a society where it is thought that we are all corrupt and fraudulent, but it is not. It's not statistically possible. We have good politicians, economists, bankers, judges and everyone else. In fact, this small, beautiful country of ours is full of happy, honest and working people, and if we shake hands and turn in the same direction, we can all change things for the better by abstaining from hostility, by striving for more tolerance, by respecting institutions, fellow citizens and everyone else, and by, say, paying taxes. Already, if we were to halve the grey economy, we could make a significant contribution to the government's efforts to reduce the government's deficit, and this is a contribution that everyone can make between us. I'm closing where I started. Today is a new day and Alenka Bratušek, the first female Prime Minister in the history of Slovenia, can present a new beginning. I'm more than ready to change myself, and I think our people are ready. I wish such changes could be made on their own. Before I conclude, I must answer Mr Prevc's blank statement by Mr Zoran Jankovic. This is not a blank statement if I can legally explain it, because a Bianca statement is a statement where nothing is written down, but it is only a signature. This is a simple statement of resignation with, as it is called, legal time-limits. Once that time limit has been fulfilled, the declaration itself, without any specific additional activity, shall enter into force. So much for those who don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare Mr. Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the government, nice greeting! I'm not going to talk about the past, because talking about the past is wasting our time, your time, and a lot of other times, and it's bad will. But I'd like to say two or three things for the future. Today, there is no coalition of despair, as one of the electronic media says. Today, a coalition of hopes was formed. I believe that in a year's time, when this coalition is likely to go to the National Assembly for a confidant, we will find that today, not a coalition of hope has emerged, but that a coalition of solutions has emerged today. It is very wrong to judge the government black and white, which is likely to leave in the coming days. This government has also done a number of good things. If I describe the area of food production and the environment a little bit, it must be acknowledged to this government, and especially to the competent minister, that it has continued the strategy of this national assembly, which talks about it – We provide food for tomorrow. Perhaps at some operational step we were not fully coordinated, but the only direction was possible and correct. This government must also be acknowledged that it has begun to resolve open environmental issues where the problems of the past 20 years have only accumulated and seem almost insurmountable. From this point of view, I am very sorry that the Minister is leaving. It is impossible to solve difficult problems in such a way that those responsible change each year. This is not useful for this country. How will the new coalition, if voted today and later, separate from the old coalition? The old coalition understood that savings were needed during the crisis. There will also be a need for saving in the future, even in the future we will be looking for reserves, probably not in the same places, but we will be looking for them because we have to do so. But we'll do two more things. We will fight for every single job because the lost job in this country has no reserve and we will keep an eye on both private and public consumption. We're not getting the Nobel Prize for this. That's not our knowledge. This will not be our attempt to save the country, but we will only successfully copy those who have done it and succeeded. One more thing about the terminator. She's not even nearly perfect. In general, ideal people are unlikely to be found and found. But she has one quality that I've already congratulated her on. At least you have gathered the courage, honourable Member, to jump into this political pool full of bloodthirsty sharks. Most people in this country wouldn't gather that courage. I hope that this pool will change in the coming years, because the state of politics of these bloodthirsty sharks is not a normal state for politics. We have to admit that, and we have to change that. There's something else I'd like to say in the end. We Social Democrats have always insisted that there must be a cleansing of this policy. We also insist on this for the future. But we couldn't force immediate extraordinary elections. Our constitutional system doesn't allow that. We were pleased with your party's president's resignation. What you need to know: Social Democrats have always been a source of stability in this country, and we will also be one in a new coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor, Ms Marija Plevčak is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. Greetings to the Council of Ministers! I'd like to go back in time. It is correct for me to assign certain credits to the government that ruled us in 2012. This government has, I can tell, been successful in a number of areas. We had good ministers, we also had bad ministers, which in the course of time would probably have to be replaced, the government reconstructed, but it's too late for that now. This government did not have a good artistic impression in 2012. She couldn't communicate well with citizens and citizens. I think there have been some kicks here, which could be corrected by better communication, with a better attitude towards our citizens and citizens. However, the problem is not this government that is not leaving. The problem right now is the President of the Government. This government is the victim of the Prime Minister. The Commission's findings to prevent corruption are cruel. Corruption risk is unbearable, unbearable for someone who is Prime Minister. The person assigned by the Commission to such allegations may no longer be President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If we don't have the answer to the question or I personally don't need the answer to the question. The institution, which is responsible for this, must receive a satisfactory answer to the questions who bought the President of the Government a car, who paid him legal fees, who paid him the bills, where the difference in the price of the property, etc. There's no need for President Vlade to explain that to us. We're not competent people for these things. It was necessary to clarify when this was necessary to the Commission, which was set up to verify that it controlled it. Did he or did he not or did he not know? I can only guess that. The fact is, we're here where we are. Corruption risks are too great right now and it is my duty not to give this government another minute of opportunity. This government should have left a month ago, right now, it's too late. I don't agree to conspiracy theories. I do not agree with the fact that I cannot trust the commissions set up by this country that I cannot trust the courts that I cannot trust the prosecution, the police. Who am I going to trust right now? If we don't believe in the institutions of the rule of law, then we can't trust anyone and then it's chaos. Then we better get out of this country. I don't want to live in a country like this. I do not agree that this is a political construct and I do not agree that the structure of the Commission has certain shortcomings. Maybe let's figure it out over time. If these fears and these hints of conspiracy are that it is a political construct, a real one, then I expect it to be established and unrelentingly punished. At this point, I believe in the institutions of the rule of law, and this is what I expect from all of us. We're in a difficult situation right now. The only way out of this difficult situation is by being a constructive untrustworthy woman. Although the exit might have been more elegant, it was not offered. Those who had this opportunity were unable to make this move. I suggest we give the candidate a chance. I don't know her personally except for this year. I can't tell how capable she is. He certainly has certain competences. Are these competences enough to lead the country? I think so. But there's something I know right now. It is that the candidate for the Prime Minister has the courage to admit it. Whether the candidate is going to be able to form a government today, or not, this moment is of secondary importance. This action opens up the possibility of a solution for this country. Either a good, solid, strong, stable government with a clear agenda that will help this country and restore hope, or early elections. Both objectives are legitimate at this point and both objectives are those which this country is urgently awaiting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak has the floor to prepare Mr Roman Žveglic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. A warm greeting to all present! I'm sorry the president of the government isn't here. It bothers me that he is always absent or that when we have a meeting of the National Assembly, he is present only when the questions are addressed to him. I think that, as Prime Minister of the Government, he should also be involved. There's been a lot of talk about the government's work. There have been many good things, some bad things that have especially upset us and our public. Now, on the question of who brought down John Jansha? I think he broke himself with his arrogant attitude and disregard for the voice of the Slovenian public and the people on the street, not admitting the mistakes he has made in his presidency. Let us find that these were his faults, that they were not the mistakes of the National Assembly, or of us Members, or of anyone else. It was particularly undermined by the Commission's case and findings to prevent corruption. As President of the Government, he can't argue that he doesn't know certain things or that he didn't know. I think there's a responsibility on it. He did not react immediately and gave up what would be dignified for him and would facilitate the work of Parliament. It's systemic and misleading, but it's almost certain it's not random. He can't admit his mistakes. We do them all, but they need to be fixed as soon as possible, and I don't think he's capable of doing it. He is unable to take a step back and is unable to accept any criticism. His rhetoric, especially at the celebration of the Slovenian cultural holiday, is offensive to all those who think differently from Mr Janša and his fellow thinkers. This also showed a lack of respect for the large number of people in Slovenia. All these moves he has made, I think they are worth judging and do not run a politics like the Prime Minister. I will certainly vote in favour of the non-trust of the existing government. I don't think of ministers here as much as I think of their leader. I will support the new mandate-holder, because I hope that this will at least ease the atmosphere in Parliament, so that it will be possible to work differently and that rhetoric will find the right way, a respectful path for those who think otherwise in this temple of democracy. However, I would like all of us, Mrs Bratusek, with her new team to set up, to lead us into a better and fairer future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I don't want to be in one of my last performances in the National Assembly in any way offensive and otherwise unkind to you, but still. This government did not fall apart because of substantive differences, at least as regards the Slovenian People's Party, but on our part the problem was that the President of the Government either did not want or was unable to understand the Commission's reports on preventing corruption. As a result, the political crisis also occurred because the president of the biggest opposition party did not understand and did not want to understand the Commission's report on anti-corruption. Neither one of them is in the hall. There is also no candidate for a new terminator, because it is understandable that she cannot sit in the hall all the time and sometimes has to get out. I was in a big dilemma about how to vote. You're voting for an untrustworthy person by supporting a candidate or a candidate for a new term. This would not be a problem if the programme and the objective of the new Prime Minister and also the government were to go to the early elections as soon as possible, because I think that Slovenian political space after all these events that have happened to us urgently needs to be cleansed. I fully agreed with this until a few days ago, and that was the only thing with the President of Social Democrats, Dr. Igor Luksic. But he changed his mind. All right, everybody has that right. If I had the option of having two votes, one for the untrustworthy – I would give it to him – and another for the new term, if it were Mrs Alenka Bratušek in this case, then I would split those two votes and not give it to her because she did not convince me by her opening act. Otherwise, she said a lot of things, even good things. But what was the main thing — optimism, hope, and courage. These are great things, but they are unlikely to be enough to solve this political crisis and the countries. She mentioned many other things, such as normalisation, dialogue, and the end of fear. Yeah, maybe, but the part of the program that we could track in her performance scares me, too. I'm mostly afraid of the opposite of what you've read to this government, that's saving, saving, saving. On the contrary, I am probably in debt, debt and debt, and I am afraid of this as a citizen. I don't know how we're gonna pay for this. But I almost laughed when it was written "active fight against corruption". You know, there should be some sort of principled thing that needs to be said and resolved within the party itself. I will repeat this: 5 members of Positive Slovenia are also the city councilors of the largest city municipality, our capital city of Ljubljana, and I have never heard from them a single doubt about the mayor's creation, the president of their party, of the issues in the report of the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption. I even read that certain people under this quota will also be future ministers. In such matters, as well as in the discussions on the creation of a new government, the Slovenian People's Party has not participated and does not intend to participate, even though we are open. I wish you good luck, Prime Minister. I wish her wisdom, which will be seen within a few days of her proposing a list of candidates for ministers to the National Assembly. This will show how successful she is, which is difficult to assess today. My desire for happiness and wisdom is not essentially intended for it as it is intended for the country of Slovenia and its citizens and citizens. I will vote in favour of the untrustworthy, but solely with the aim of stopping this murmuring, because it would be strange that in the final stage the government would have almost as many ministers as there are Members of the National Assembly who support it, which is unbearable – just and simply to break this situation and start a new day, as a colleague said before, in which I do not look so optimistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, instead of Mr Branko Fick, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, all well hailed! Without the Commission's burdensome report on anti-corruption, today we would not have this meeting and this item on the agenda. I don't object to the report. I respect the institutions. Today, Mr Janez Janša will probably have to say goodbye to the office of President of the Government. But I expect from all of us, dear colleagues and colleagues, a somewhat fairer debate. We have completely forgotten that this report still burdens the Ljubljana mayor, your mayor and my capital. How quickly we Slovenians are blinded! We're tired of freezing, we're sick enough and soon we'll all be ganko and soon this whole country will be ganko! Ladies and gentlemen, where is our conscience, our mind and our heart? My thinking will be directed towards the future. I'd like to congratulate the candidate who started very well. Broken day, no more division. Congratulations. First priority – some sort of safe path to early elections, something like this. It's kind of a strange project of the executive branch of power. In a way, I can read between the lines: "Don't call us responsible, because they will anyway soon, in 2014, say, elections." The new government will build on Slovenian advantages. Congratulations next time. I also add – on Slovenian traditional values. We have forgotten this, we have rejoiced in all our activities, including political ones. There is nothing about opposition and cooperation and integration with the opposition. Partnership for Development – nothing. I believe the program is still missing. The program is still coming. The programme may also contain something about cooperation and association with the opposition. I therefore also understand that, as regards foreign policy, for example, as only one of the Ministry’s departments, there is only one project – ratification of the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Yes, dear colleague Alenka, but under the fulfilled conditions, which we have also accepted with your very respected colleagues, members of the Committee on Foreign Policy. At the Foreign Policy Committee meeting on 20 September last year, decisions were adopted which are a prerequisite for ratification, and I am giving these conclusions as a reminder to the candidates for the mandate today. I know colleague Alenko from when she was a good co-worker of the late Minister Dr Andre Bajuk, and I wonder what Minister Bajuk would say today if he heard that Mrs Bratušek, a candidate for a terminator, intended to abolish the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, to abolish the minister or minister responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world. I suggest you just listen, colleagues and colleagues from the future coalition, to the voice of Mr Boris Pahor, who says that such an act would be against history. I believe that colleague Alenka is not among those whose own country was not in the mental horizon and today she is difficult to put on the altar of the Slovenian people, as said by a very well-known Slovenian doctor of historical science. The Minister or Minister for Slovenians worldwide must be, according to the law we passed in the 2004-2008 mandate, primarily with his heart. Our Minister, Mrs Ludmilo Novak, was accepted by Slovenians in exchange and worldwide with open arms, with tears of joy in their eyes. Today you growl at it, today you laugh at it and you want to amputate one fifth of the Slovenian national body! About half a million people live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, about half a million people live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia; in Italy 85 thousand, in Austria 25 thousand, in Croatia 13 thousand and in Hungary about 3 thousand 400. I would like to ask my colleague Alenka, because I do not have much time for her to be a terminator, not a midwife, that she will be a mandate-holder with Slovenian conscience, with soul and with heart, and I also want to say that we are not equal citizens, we are not equal, but we are equal and I want colleague Alenka to remember that. I wish her good luck, because we're all gonna need luck together. It awaits us and, above all, you, colleagues and colleagues, the fantastic liquidity problem of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the near future. In the functioning of the future government, I want more and, above all, a lot of media support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Personally, I do not agree with the billings and verbal washes of dirty laundry, but today we need to talk about why the distrust of the government or the president of the government is needed. Today's action is only a logical consequence of the one-year operation of this government, and above all the functioning of the Prime Minister of the Government. When we enthroned the President a year ago, I said that what Janez learned was John’s knowledge, and President John Janša acted as he knew and was taught. Already today we have heard that he put himself in front of the country — the country I am — and that was its operation and that was the way this government operates. As a mandate-holder, he excluded dialogue and as an absolutist he controlled and wanted to manage all the resources. Amendments to the laws were brought to the National Assembly by means of an urgent, rapid procedure, without professional analysis, without the possibility of public and professional participation. The accepted ZUJF will certainly go to the analies of the Slovenian Parliament, but with a negative foreshadow. Today, I would like to pay particular attention to austerity measures in the field of education, as the megaminister had to follow the instructions of the President of the Government, including to the detriment of children and youth. These austerity measures in the areas of education, science, culture, sport and youth have also been followed by attempts at systemic and organisational changes to break down the public education system and disrupt the existing good system. Professionals in education have been demotivating the government's attitude. Instead of dialogue and moral and professional support, the Government, the minister and, of course, the President of the Government were also intimidated by the loss of their jobs and marked as poor or poor workers. The mergers of public institutions have been carried out at the megaministerial level without the right objective, without analysis and answers, why and what they would achieve. The Sports Foundation has been attached to the Ministry despite comments from the anti-corruption commission, the professional public and us, some Members. The government has abolished the post of Director and left the leadership to the volunteer president or president with the professional assistance of the Ministry staff. This is also an independent foundation policy that works in the public interest, I wonder. And the minister doesn't have what he promised to debirocratize the school. Alenka Bratušek presented herself today as a candidate. In her address, she did not mention in a word that she would terminate the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world. Not a word was said, but it was mentioned that the independent ministry would join the new Ministry of Culture. I expect and believe from the new mandate-holder that it will establish a good and constructive dialogue, an appropriate working atmosphere, an improved relationship and cooperation with all participants in all areas. This will restore people's confidence in government, politics and the country as well. I expect that she will leave some peace in education so that professional workers and students can create and will not receive constant changes; that she will follow the public and professional goals set, national programmes and thus give economic growth a chance; that she will work with the ministerial team to create the best possible conditions for public education, as education must remain publicly accessible to all children and young people, where all participants have the same opportunities and opportunities to obtain quality education. There will be many challenges, I am sure that the new team member will be able, know and follow the challenges. In her difficult work, I will be happy to help her, and I wish her much success.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle and then Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, Prime Minister of the Government, candidate for Prime Minister of the Government! I will speak as if the candidate for President of the Government is among us, because I am sure that she is listening and following this debate somewhere. In your introductory address, you have highlighted three things you intend to introduce. This is a normalization of the situation of dialogue and expertise. Of course, I fully agree with you here, but I'm curious which of these things has not been done by the present, otherwise only a one-year government, as it appears. As far as normalizing the situation is concerned, this government has done so and has done so. With the package we have adopted in both fiscal policy and in some other areas, however, we have begun to normalise the situation in this country, but some of them have subsequently begun to worsen and demolish this situation, which we have finally created. It began with the intentional scolding of people against this government, and the media has been extremely supportive of it. Then we had great problems with the background uncles, who were knitting and knitting, probably will continue to do so, and that would be the first thing we would have to cut in this country so that the uncles from behind wouldn't interfere so much with the day-to-day political event. Then maybe it would be easier and better. And these uncles from behind today have achieved what they have been doing all the time, and this is the destruction of John Janša. That was the only and only basic goal. Then you mentioned a dialogue. If anyone, this government respects dialogue. And if anyone, then Minister Visjak is the one who has undoubtedly introduced higher standards, touching dialogue and respecting individuals and engaging in discussions, and when they have negotiated, all the stakeholders needed to do so. This is acknowledged by the unions after all. And then saying that you're going to have a dialogue because this government didn't know how to set it up is a little bit unrealistic. The third thing is the profession. I also agree with you here, a respected candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, but former Minister Šuštersič is also an expert. I am also convinced that he has written his entire doctoral assignment, but because of political ambitions and the destruction of his packages, especially when we are talking about Slovenian State Holding and Bad Bank, of course you do not want him in your Government, nor to help you with any projects with your knowledge, because he is an expert. Then you said that you would work actively to fight corruption. I have been warning you for years that we have completely cancelled corruption in this country, and that is why I support you in this regard, but I suggest that if you want to maintain your own credibility and integrity, then you must start fighting corruption first in Ljubljana City. When you clean up there with things, then people will be able to believe that you mean it. If you do not do so, then you will have huge problems, and most of all, everyone will know that it is only about throwing sand in your eyes or barking into the moon. The fact is that we are in extremely difficult and difficult times, which require carefully weighed decisions from us, and that is also why urgent and necessary action has to be taken. This was done by the government of Janez Janša, who, by the way, even though you demolished it at all levels where it could be done, in one year more than the previous government has done in three years. We passed the Law on Public Finance Balance – this was essential for stabilising the situation. We have adopted the pension reform, tomorrow we will discuss labour law and probably adopt it further. However, it was obvious for some too and followed the manoeuvre that was – I must admit – extremely well directed: through Yankovic to bring down Janez Janša and here Dr Gregor Virant played a key role. This is Dr. Gregor Virant, who built part of his political career on the hard work and enforcement of the SDS party and also its President, Janez Janša. The positive Slovenia has therefore submitted a constructive non-trust and has proposed Mrs Alenko Bratušek as a mandate-holder. It's a perfectly legitimate move, and the question is, if this is the smartest move we've ever made, right now. They appear to support both the positive Slovenia, which is normal, in SD, DeSUS, also part of the Slovenian People's Party, or fully – I don't know – and the National Gazette. Above all, I expect the last party itself to act in accordance with its principles and with the criteria it has set. I have in mind, above all, the consistency with regard to Zoran Jankovic. Today, it appears that Mr Virant does not care if he remains in his position as mayor of the Ljubljana municipality, even though the Commission gave him in its opinion reasons for suspicion of corruption on this level, according to the Ljubljana Municipality. But that doesn't matter anymore, the point is to bring down John Jansho. This has probably worked for us, honourable Members, today, and now we can take a breath. From tomorrow on, milk and honey are likely to be drained, especially in the light of the high - flying words presented in the opening address. There will probably be no more protests, at least not as strong as they have been or will have no such intensity as there is no longer any need. Finally, let me just wish you all the good things you do as Prime Minister of the Government, if you're elected. I hope that you will act primarily for the benefit of citizens and citizens, and that you will not act solely and solely for the benefit of a narrow circle of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, then Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The crisis began with us in 2008, even though we did not want to admit it at first. However, this crisis is so much deeper because some of our other strategic mistakes have already taken place. Today we are in the fifth stage of the crisis, which, together with the protests, has been thoroughly shaken by the Commission's report on anti-corruption and has caused the presidents of the two largest parliamentary parties to leave. One withdrew to the city house and the other from the post of Prime Minister will sit in the opposition bench. In the second half of last year, according to some experts, we were in the fourth phase of the financial and social crisis, which proved to be a problem when financial liquidity was needed for businesses and, above all, the financial liquidity of the country. Before that, we had a third phase of the crisis, which began with the fall of the pension reform in June 2011 and stepped up with some statements by representatives of the current outgoing ruling team that Slovenia was on the verge of bankruptcy. The consequences were direct, the price of money increased for the country, for the banks and consequently for the business and the citizens. The fact is that the previous government had warned long before the Superferendum Sunday, June 2011, that if Pahor's government's reform projects failed, the money in the banking markets would become more expensive for our country from month to month and thus unattainable. Finally, we had to commit ourselves to interest rates higher than the interest rates, which today owe some African countries belonging to the least developed countries of the world. Of course, these warnings did nothing to help. With the assistance of most of the then opposition and trade unions, the laws at the referendums fell in line. In addition, some parties left the coalition at the time, there was a political crisis and the first early elections in Slovenia alone. We spent almost a year on client political dribbling, the government was unable to act on the departure, and we only got a new one in February 2012. Today, I would expect the President of the Government to have the courage of state to admit, as the former leader of the opposition, that he was wrong in breaking all reforms. In doing so, I would like to quote one of the banking experts who told the Slovenian public that our banks had 2 billion net assets abroad in 2004 and by the end of 2008 we had up to 13 billion minus or net debt abroad. Of these, two-thirds or 10 billion fell away between 2007 and 2008. The accelerated indebtedness and overheating of the economy occurred radically in the second part of the first Janša government, even though the global financial crisis in the United States began in mid-2007. Surprisingly, at that time, banks were most generous and irresponsible in granting loans to foreign-owned banks. At that time, Taliban loans amounting to EUR 2 billion, almost half at the expense of the Maribor Bell. Ladies and gentlemen, there are between 24 million and 25 million unemployed people in Europe today. In the last few years, there has been a very worrying process of unemployment growth elsewhere, such as in the United States of America, all at the expense of moving industrial production from the European Union and the United States of America to Asia and other regions where cheap labour was. Thus, individual countries or regions in some European countries are already completely out of industry. The fact is, the United States of America and Europe have moved production to cheaper areas, but the loss of jobs has therefore been high. It is necessary to re-produce at home, in the United States and in the European Union. In the United States, a new paradigm has already been adopted, production back to America, which is already showing results, while in Europe we are still stepping in. Therefore, development banks in the European Union, Slovenia, including the European and Slovenian budgets, must stimulate science, development and production of new products and restore and preserve Europe as one of the leading global producers. The momentum of economic development and new jobs are the first priority, or we will be approaching in 1993 when there were 133 000 unemployed people in our country. This will also have to be dealt with intensively by the new government proposed by the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. This is the first priority of the emerging government. I believe he'll be a magician today. Alenka Bratušek was elected First President of the Government in Slovenia. However, if we happen to be unable to form a new government in the next step, this would mean an eccentric violation of the Slovenian Constitution and a dangerous precedent for similar situations in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar is gone, and they are running out of time to discuss. It's Mrs. Janja Klasinc's turn. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are hearing of a great surprise why such impatience to the current Prime Minister of the Government. See, all demonstrations and assemblies of people throughout Slovenia differ from other countries, where demonstrations are also taking place – mainly because of the severe economic situation and the financial crisis – in that people are also protesting against us because of corruption of individual officials, because of the irregularities of some of our colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, who have used inappropriate methods, because of the dishonesty in general and because of the political culture that I think has fallen below every appropriate level. First came the Slovenian intellectuals, the roads went to work, they resisted traditionally quieter, economists, the schoolchildren and scientists rose up, and finally the human uprising came. And what was the result of this human resurrection? The Prime Minister of the Government has called and said that these demonstrators are zombies, he has branded his political opponents as left fascists, he has dealt with them in the past year by attaching various documents or losing various signatures or documents, he has branded his ministers as the worst possible ministers, coalition partners as empty schemes, and he has been accompanied by conspiracy theory. Fear prevailed in Slovenia, anxiety prevailed in Slovenia, and that is why today's debate and everything that is happening today in the National Assembly will result in the collapse of this government because it makes sense. See, with the same vats, a public prosecutor has also been dealt with, which has accused the Prime Minister of various suspicious cases in the Patria affair. Even worse were his attacks on the anticorruption commission — this cynicism we have heard today. Then today we heard a broad explanation of what the President of the Government had done and what he had not done. Personally, I wonder where he put 200, how the President of the Government could have pulled 255,000 euros in an unknown place on an unknown day in an unknown way out of his pocket and bought an apartment in Mesarska. But that's what I'm interested in privately, because there was no transaction account in that contract. That's what they say was paid in cash. This was also of interest to the anti-corruption commission. But today we're not talking about it, it's not the matter of the National Assembly and me as members of the opposition that I'm asking the President of the Government what he's done with it. That's what the other organs are for. However, we are interested in how a country is managed and managed, and this has been done in a way that has made Slovenia's public financial position worse in the past year, the economy is sinking even more, in the adoption of all the laws – I do not know how many times in this National Assembly – the positions of the profession and the advice of civil society have not been taken into account. The exception was Minister Vizjak and all recognition to Minister Viszak. Then we also witnessed the adoption of laws that were more due to some ideological orientations than to real needs. ZUJF is one of them. And now, if I come to the foreign policy area, which is more my motherland. The President of the Government has also cut himself here in a very special way. If we look at his threats, today some colleagues have already mentioned this, about the Greek script that awaits Slovenia. The President of the Government of one country starts to run the government and for half a year after running it, he tells the entire world and the local public that we are sinking and that we will be finished. Of course, they started in a month when the first ratings came in, these ratings were lowered. This also happened in the previous mandate, when the Pahor government was and when they started falling with great support now ruling and then opposition SDS all the reforms that the previous government had tried to make. Now – thank God – in the opposition of this reform, which we think is necessary, we support. This is where I think it's about some mistrust towards myself. If you don't trust yourself with how you're gonna run the country and talk about all sorts of catastrophic scenarios, then others can't trust you. And so the Prime Minister did not trust the top international lawyers who were preparing our memorandum for an arbitration agreement because he had already seen some conspiracy theory again. What was the next step? Already with Croatia, because Croatia is a well-known instrument, which the President of the Government likes to serve in all domestic crises. We now have an open question with the Ljubljana Bank. Minister Erjavec has brought him so far that we would now have initialed this matter. But no, this has to be stopped and according to my information, the Croats are already changing their positions a little bit and sharpening – how well we will have another open question! I think there are enough reasons for the government to fall today. Finally, I would like to say about the candidate for the term. In her introductory report, the candidate did not mention any of the various human resources solutions that she was supposed to have or organisational solutions in the government, except for those concerning the prosecution and the Ministry of Culture. Nevertheless, today we listened to what it would be, and how it would be, and how it would be third. This is a subject for discussion once again. However, Mrs Alenka Bratušek said something in her introduction today: that her popular word is – co-creation, cooperation, co-management and solidarity. In short, all those values that they train for a successful mandate holder and for a completely different policy, as led by Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Stephen, then Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting to everyone on my side! For 2012, we cannot really say that something good has happened because all indicators show a very poor economic, economic, employment situation. And what is even more worrying is that trends of deterioration continue. This is said to be the first year in which these deterioration trends will have to be halted and then economic growth will have to be built. If we take the main stakeholders of the social gross product for 2012, we see that they are all negative. Private consumption, representing 60% minus 3% in the structure of the company's gross product, of 19.4% minus 3.1%, of net exports, of negative imports in the structure of the company's gross product and of investments representing 16.4% in the structure of the company's gross product, is negative by 20.4%, that is to say compared to the third quarter of eleven, twelve being 3.3% lower gross domestic product or negative economic growth. The banking system is on the ground, we have a three billion smaller asset of banks, the loss of banks 664 million, poor claims in the banking system for 7 billion, and they're still growing. Last year, credits were less than 0.5% of households and fewer loans to the economy for a fat 2 billion. The banking system went from nearly 3 billion to abroad and withdrew 2.5 billion from the economy. On the other hand, it is clear that the liabilities have also decreased, as I said, 2.3 billion from Banka Slovenije for the entire banking system. In the economic field, we note the over-indebtedness of businesses, soft forgiveness, poor economic climate and over 600 bankruptcys in 2012. The bankruptcys continue at the same pace in 2013; in January there are 40 bankruptcys. Poor legislation does not revive the labour market. The lack of research and development, the lack of incentives, the lack of incentives to modify products, especially products and services, undermine the competitiveness of the economy. Two thirds of products in Slovenia are not being amended. It is said that it is not improving and thus weakening the competitive capacity of companies. In the employment area we had 112 thousand unemployed at the beginning of 2012, there are 124 thousand 770 unemployed today. If I include those who are deleted from the employment records as job seekers when they run out of rights at the Employment Institute – about 18,000 of them – we currently have 140 000 unemployed. Too much disalignment between job seekers mainly from professional activities and the needs of the economy is reflected in the high unemployment of young people. Up to 30,000 young people are currently in the Employment Service. Slovenia has 350 regulated professions; on average, Europe has 100 regulated professions – it is said that we have a very wide range of professions. The measures needed to improve are in higher employment and employability, higher added value or economic growth. Enterprise and state infrastructure investments with financial resources and equity in the EU must be a priority if they keep jobs, create new jobs and increase added value. These investments must have exclusive priority. What is earmarked for 2013 was around 460 million in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and energy investments and so on – last year all investments were around 4 billion in Slovenia. They must have exclusive priority over investments that create or maintain jobs and increase added value. With 1.1 billion EU funds this year, we should create by taking the standard from Minister Žerjev, when he created 3,000 jobs with 327 million euros, 10,000 new jobs. We get 1.4 billion from Europe, but it's 300 million for agriculture. With renewed insolvency and bankruptcy legislation, we will give more power to creditors and thus preserve a wide range of jobs. For young people to be involved in work processes as soon as possible after completion of the study, a specific programme or compulsory traineeships should be drawn up. It is essential, through the EU, to encourage businesses to invest, employment and strengthen their development and research potential. For over-indebted companies with export orientation, development and research potential, human resources in knowledge, competitive capacity, we can prepare such an environment to deal with over-indebtedness. For example, converting the equity share of the loan through an agency that receives the guarantee from the State — for a short time. If I repeat, investments that maintain or create new jobs will have the advantage of increasing added value, increasing competitiveness or creating a competitive advantage. Employment, especially for young people, will be encouraged through calls for proposals with European funds. The introduction of new technologies, efficient energy, modern knowledge and environmentally friendly products will be a priority to support it with EU funds and equity. Sustainable development in all areas is a strategic guide to development plans, in particular implementing documents need to be defined. Credit crunches and corporate over-indebtedness must be resolved simultaneously. Legislation, measures, implementing documents should encourage new employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, then Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u86	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, all present in the hall! So, the time of non-trust is clearly a time for Members and Members to exchange opinions, opinions and even criticisms, as well as praises. After us is a period of many wasted opportunities, a period of ignorance, a period of greed, if you will. All of this has led us to a state and to a point of disappointment, even to a point of shame. And it is not the point, as someone stated in his statement today, simply and simply to overthrow John Janša — no. The point is to get rid of the country in order to restore confidence in the Slovenian policy, which has apparently been lost in recent years and in the last year, the compass. It's time to take a breath; it's time to breathe; it's time to step out of the pantry, to gather courage and get out of the depression, because the state and the citizens are depressed because of the situation we're in; to stop complaining about it, because we're not going to get anywhere – and luck doesn't like the one who's jamming. It is time to take a look at the future and it is time to replace the self-demeanour and hopelessness chip with the chip and mentality of the winner, to step out of the defense into the offensive, to work for the country, for all citizens and citizens, and not for narrow party interests, as has often been the case in the past, and unfortunately today. It is time to give all citizens and citizens a decent life, a job and a fair pay for their work, and above all to give young people hope for the future. To all those who have managed to divide Slovenia in the past and to this day as strongly as it is now divided, I say that we should be ashamed because they have done the most harm to Slovenia and to themselves. So it is time to be aware of the comparative advantages in relation to the partner countries of the European Union and the wider space – what we should have been doing for the past 22 years is unfortunately not. To base our future development on traditional knowledge and traditional culture is our existential necessity. I repeat, this is our existential necessity; traditional knowledge and traditional culture – this is our foundation that will lead us to success in the global world, because only a country that is stable and ready and strong and is aware of its comparative advantages, both in its position and in its natural assets, in its wealth, can fall apart and can actually be successful in the global world, because globalisation is not a threat as some of us want to fear – globalisation is an opportunity. It is an opportunity for the brave and those who are proud of themselves and of everything they have, but in Slovenia you have managed to convince us that we have already begun to talk to each other about what a hopeless situation we are. No, we didn't. It's time for something to change at this point. In order to be able to get out of our entanglement and capture, we must have a man and a person and each one of us is this man; a good master must be. So in Slovenia we need a host, we need a good host and it is forecast that we will get a good economy that is able to make decisions and, consequently, also the responsibility for decisions taken, for cooperation, for co-creation, for solidarity, for the satisfaction of all, for positive economic growth, which is essential for social stability and the sustainability of public finances. Let me read to you two sentences from a very successful businesswoman in Slovenia who, after our interview last night, sent by a candidate for a new term: "The time has come for all to act for the good of women and to include men differently and better than it is for the sake of itself. It is not about feminism," she wrote, "but for a fact from history and practice. "In no good work, however bad it may be, there is no woman at the top until she is fat." How well she wrote it down! "And I wish you that tomorrow and the next days will come to an end, because these painful agonys must be brought to an end, and that the efforts we are making to overcome them will not remain barren and without answers." How beautifully she wrote it down! I'm not gonna name her for one simple reason, because that's what we agreed on. Everything else that's going on in this country needs to be crossed over, connected, and, as our candidate put it nicely and wrote at her closing address, when she quoted the late Janez Drnovska as saying that things need to be taken into hands and started changing them. The hardest thing to do is start, and then it'll go easier and faster. Maybe even in time. It's never too late to start over. Never! The ones you've been wasting and stealing from this country, you haven't taken enough and stolen. We can also start from scratch, but Slovenia has never been to zero. Slovenia is such a rich country and is so strong and stable by geographical location, it is only necessary to be aware of this situation and at any time you need to know where you are, where you are as a ship commander – if you do not know your position, you are lost – and you need to know where you want to go. And we know that. We know, we want, we can do it. We can do this for all of us. And as a Member who has been trapped here for a year and I have repeatedly stated that I feel useless, finally there is an opportunity to show that we are correcting all those mistakes because Slovenia has not fallen to the declaration level, we have fallen to the operational level. It can be written on three thousand pages, but in practice it needs to be realized. And where the hell is he hiding? When our good professors, economists who create public opinion and image, find out when they go into practice that their theory is not compatible with practice and then draw the line with an excuse not to count something else. No, my friends and good experts, in practice it's a little different. In practice, a lot of things happen differently than they do in theory. In practice, it is necessary to have a sense of cohabitation, a sense of the environment in which, for all people, you feel different, for all those good people who want and want to live better, for all of us, and for only Slovenia. Let me finish and wish Alenka Bratusek much success in leading the government, and we will all help you, Alenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, then Janez Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Well, after Stank and Gaspar, I was thinking about going home because I think we saved everything. A little joke, a little for real. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Not to be forgotten that I will not be carried along like Gaspard — I will support a constructive mistrust. I will support her, even though you are a citizen and as a member of the National Assembly I do not want her most, because I know what the state of this country is, not because I fear responsibility, but because this country does not deserve such a thing. Today, we must all gather together some positive energy and dignity to give these debates in the National Assembly a signal, however, that today we are talking about a normal matter concerning democratic countries. It is some democratic process of government change; one government has been unsuccessful, it has lost a majority in Parliament and a new government is forming. This is purely democratic in Europe and in crisis. I wouldn't make big stories out of it, but I'd look ahead. Why this occurred, we have witnessed in the last days and in the last year. The constructive non-trust we are talking about today is not because of Positive Slovenia and is not because of the Social Democrats. I think we have been a relatively good and constructive opposition this year, despite some statements that certainly do not suit you. But that we have adopted a pension reform, that we have helped to adopt and I hope that next week we will adopt labour legislation. I would not talk about the budget, the budget is adopted every year and we have not locked up on some projects – but, of course, as a party to the Social Democrats, we have a substantive difference with the Slovenian Democratic Party and that is nothing wrong. People will be able to decide which relationship or which direction is better. Slovenia, my dears, is in such a pervasive spasm. Especially in economic terms, in social terms, I will avoid ideologically and culturally that I am not talking about psychologically either. Therefore, a positive message needs to be given to the people. And if we have achieved anything today, we have taken two steps, and I hope that this second step will be taken in about five hours. The first step is to have the President of the National Assembly and the second step to elect the first term of office in our country, Mrs Bratušek, who has had a positive speech for my terms, which has probably inspired some Slovenians and Slovenes, people and gave them some positive energy, and that is enough in the first stage. What the candidate or the candidate will say about the programme will be heard within 14 days if a coalition is formed. However, we are now waiting for some of the parties to be responsible and to help make up the government and help Slovenia drive out of economic spasms. Social Democrats will be responsiblely involved and we hope that the results will be visible at the end of the year. And at that time, ladies and gentlemen, there is one other problem. When the government changes, when ministers say goodbye, when we point the finger at who's more guilty, I have to say that companies are failing. I've been working all day on how to help the Roman terminists not to go bankrupt tomorrow. I believe that the government will still be able to do enough — not everything depends on it, but also on others — to save the Roman termins tomorrow. We have Peck's problem. We have Borzen's problem. Why? Because unfortunately the government hasn't been operational for a while. And it is not right to say or point to the opposition because the opposition is not involved. If Prime Minister Janez Janša says that he did not unite us to bring him down, but they did combine us with the content that he had on the team of the worst Minister of Economy in the history of Slovenia, then you must believe that then it is not our fault. It is said that the economic ministry was poorly run, but we did not say that in the opposition, said the Prime Minister of the Government. I hope that in 14 days we will get the Government, which will have some programme starting point and which will restore Slovenia at least a little hope. Alenka, I wish you good luck and as few figs as possible in my pocket as possible, because now it's true, it's Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič is next, then Jože Velikinja. But I do have another announcement for our visitors on the balcony. I'd like you to clean up your supplies, because we're gonna have to escort you out of the hall. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u90	This time I find it very difficult, especially difficult to start with my speech. The Slovenian Hand, the Slovenian Spring is not only one party, is also the Slovenian People's Party. I feel like today I'm going to read a speech to celebrate, and even more so when I celebrate with some on the left, which is my nightmare. "Death lay upon my heart, and fire beneath the rock did not die. Kill, scream, oppress me, I will resist." I welcome the distinguished Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and fellow Members! I can't get past the personal experience of Slovenian reality, so I started with a verse from Kosovo's poem, Disappointment. For the first time in this building, the word "respected" is against me, this time I have greeted you differently and only today admit my own imperfections, because I completely embrace Kosovel, Guide: "Slovakia, your land is healthy and next to it is the right place"; Slomskim: "What you do not want others to do to you, and do not do to others"; Prešernom: "Stand your own, remember without peace"; Gregorčičim: "It is not only that which is owed to him, it is that the man must do." And Kosovel said, The golden altar among the grey stones, I know who hath broken it: and I will restore it with the resurrection, and I will resist. Because I have maintained ties to the core of life, because I understand the message of Vodnik, Slomška, Prešern, Gregorčič, Kosovel and other Slovenian celestials, because I know who tore apart the golden altar of the Slovenian nation, today I resist. I'm resisting the current Prime Minister Janez Janša. Simply, even if we consider the Commission's conclusions on preventing corruption – although common sense cannot be taken away from them – there remains a fact; Janez Janša has been co-forming the Slovenian reality from her position and opposition for two decades. And the moment is: the golden altar is broken. I oppose Zoran Jankovic, Milan Kučan and the group of so-called moral and intellectual authorities, which, in recent days, through the mouth of Ambassador Alenka Bratušek and all of you who support her candidacy for the Prime Minister of the Government, impose on us a life-form which, along with Janez Janša, has torn apart the golden altar of the clergy. I'm resisting the negativity of basic human logic. The claim that Zoran Jankovic has withdrawn from state policy and that she is a candidate for the government's self-esteem is frightening. A direct Orwellian negativity of human thought! I'm resisting the final elimination of the mission of thought. Imagine what the world without Socrates, Dante, St. Augustine, Voltaire would be like without Trubar, Bohorič, Slomska, Trstenjak? Today, Igor Lukšič, a university professor, a man from the first Slovenian intellectual circle tells us that Alenka Bratušek is the solution for Slovenia. This is the despair of the breakup of the golden altar. I resist the pitiful adaptability that guarantees my daily privileges, but negation is the basis of life. Even because of the way the children are employed, John Janša and Jože Tanko are completely justified. Two decades ago, however, Zoran Jankovic pressured the trip by providing a graduation for his son, even though he did not finish it. Today, we are rescued by Janez Janša and Jožet Tank in the image of Alenka Bratušek. The bottom of life! I'm resisting. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, we could resist. It is fundamental, we are really on the border without an exit, so let us be conscious — life does not know the left and the right, life knows eternal values, the real needs of man, the idea of righteousness. For this reason, I support the non-trust of this non-life government, and for a living reason, I reject the support of the Government, which is being offered as an alternative. The government that's being offered would definitely kill the last one up. Let's raise awareness. This moment is a time of pervasive confusion, so none of what is offered is accepted. Let's make up our minds for early elections. There'll be more time to sober up. I am convinced that the Slovenian People's Party is the closest to the core of life. Even if I'm wrong, there's still a chance of making the right decision. So, I support the non-trust of the Government, but I reject the proposed solution with much more passion. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože the Great, then Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u92	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members, a respected candidate for the term of office! One key area of sound economic development policy is also energy policy. The objectives of this policy are clear and simple: to ensure sufficient energy independence and an adequate level of self-sustainment and care for the country. As a result of this policy, citizens want stable and sustainable supply and distribution of energy and energy at competitive prices, energy generation and energy production according to internationally comparable environmental standards and regulations. There are not many dilemmas with regard to energy consumption targets. The purest energy consumed is the one we don't use for unnecessary purposes. It is therefore necessary to implement measures for the rational and clean use of energy. Certainly this is not acquisition, production and distribution. Production capacity needs to be provided and maintained while investment in new production capacity with new technologies that have better benefits and better environmental assessments is urgently needed. It is necessary to invest in the development of smart and distribution networks. Support is needed for measures and projects leading towards low-carbon societies and smart technologies. Security and sustainability must be ensured. What did we do last year? The government has failed to close the financial structure or the largest energy project in the Republic of Slovenia. The government did not allow the closure of the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine to be carried out after the adopted law and programme, but did not adopt a new one. The government did not provide any restructuring plans for energy in Zasavje and thus set up all employees and dependent on the existence. Why am I quoting these cases? These companies are state-owned and, therefore, the government's attitude towards them has been extremely irresponsible and under-appreciated to their administrations and supervisors. The Government also acted machetely to enforce its own rules governing the provision of incentives for the introduction of green technologies. State-owned companies have collected profits that should be directed towards development and the completion of the investment in the construction of the long-range project has benefited from recruitment, and so on. The energy government has not followed the current situation, and the future is seen in the sale of its assets, including the most profitable ones. Where are the solutions, dialogue and profession? We will not come into the future from the past, but from the present. The present is a disaster, and the government of John Janša has led us to do so. We don't deserve Slovenians and Slovenians like that. The present is Alenka Bratusek and the new government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Magnificent. It's Branko Grimes. He's got a mag behind him. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! There is one Murphy's law that sounds very good in Parliament today, that the most condescending interests are usually hidden behind high-pitched words. But more than that, today I think it's the day Orwell smiles. By the way, those who read Orwell or remember his works, you know that the truth ministry there was really a lie. If they were talking about freedom, it meant slavery, if they were talking about honesty, it meant stealing and so on and so forth. How do we turn this rumor into what we heard today? The best thing for Slovenia is always – because no one believes in Slovenia anyway – if a mirror is placed abroad. And one of the best mirrors in the world is Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, one of the most respected, most credible and therefore also the most influential newspapers in the world at all. Just before we heard one of the Members of Positive Slovenia, who said the following, quote: "The financial position of Slovenia has deteriorated in a year." End of quote. Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung published an extensive article a few days ago that discusses responsibility for overthrowing the government – and now I quote: "... which has brought Slovenia with amazing success on the path of bailing out state finances. In just a year, she managed to halve the budget deficit. In October it had already sold 10-year bonds only after a 4,5 % interest rate and thus prevented the financial collapse. Through Parliament, it has adopted a pension reform and a budget for the next two years. The next one's on the bank recovery program. The collapse of this government would destabilize Slovenia and bring it closer to bankruptcy." End of quote by Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. This is how they see the situation in Slovenia in the European Union and all the influential circles in the world shown by the newspaper, which is the concept of the credibility of journalism, not only in the European Union, but we can say calmly in all democratic countries. Of course, you couldn't see this in most mainstream media in Slovenia. You can guess why. Mr Horvat said earlier that the future government wants significantly more media support than the current one. I can answer him with a quote from the poet Frances Prešern: "One wish has already been fulfilled for you." So there's nothing to be afraid of. By the way, in the textbook of Prof. Dr. Bogomila Ferfile, who was my mentor – this is from the World of Hands Collection, and the book is called the USA – is an interesting quote which is perfect for keeping these words in mind: "The most about editorial policy of the media does not say what they report and how they report, but what they systematically silence." And we must have said everything. And if we are saying here that Slovenia's public finances have deteriorated in a year, but the most prominent media houses recognize the amazing success of the state finances recovery and so on, then it is clear that Orwell can rightly smile when he listens to you today. Why, in fact, this goes on and whether this fear is justified, we can help each other with the words of the Commissioner – because we do not have to run through the door. In fact, if I quote her, the strong criticism in her opening speech was that saving is something that burdens economic development and therefore needs to be quickly indebted and used as much as possible. You know, if that were true, it'd probably be different. But let's just look three years ago. The Pahor's government had a large growth cycle at the time of the European Union – for example, Germany had a 5.5% net economic growth during a certain period – and it owed it as a crazy one and Slovenia was going down economically. This is not said to mean that increasing public consumption will also necessarily result in an increase in the social gross product. The question is also what do we do with this money, how do we spend it, whether we invest it in some development projects, or what do we do with it? And that's really what this is about. This can be seen beautifully with something – you won't believe it, even with some who have MBA, it's like a senior in the field of economics and something else, talking and not knowing and not believing me until I brought them Eurostat data. This is information on the required profitability of Slovenian 10-year bonds. It's only a few months from now. You know, at the worst of times, it's been there almost 8%, which is a disaster for the country. What has been accomplished by the government under the leadership of Janez Janša and the coalition under the leadership of the SDS in this Parliament? Let's take a look at this movement. It fell, the required return fell from there to about 7 – another 7 was – to about 4.5%, but that was to the point where the government crisis was artificially caused. At that point, there's a trend, of course it's average, it's reversed, and now it's a percent and a half higher. And you know what this percentage of growth means? Each percentage of the higher required yields are paid by taxpayers around €190 million, both on a free basis. Which means that, at this point in time, with the artificial government crisis, you've already reached into the pocket of every child, every taxpayer, and you've stolen 100 euros from him with your political account. Because this is where it crystallised very clearly today, why this is happening — because it is not about believing that the future government will be more successful. The whole Parliament is already talking about the fact that there have been some meetings this morning, because there is already a future coalition that cannot be agreed on, and that the question is whether the government will, even as some of you have said very directly, bevk. He said very nicely that it would be a simple packer if a mandate-holder were to be appointed today, and then the government would not be reached, which is true and I fully agree with him. That's more than right. That's right. But what you were saying is a little bit quote: "It doesn't matter if the new government is important to fall now; I will vote for the non-trust, important to start a new day tomorrow" People of God, or who even knows that this is not about your personal offenses or personal traumas, but it is about the fate of the state of Slovenia, which is currently in some extremely important projects: from regulating matters with Croatia, to regulating matters with the European Union, rehabilitating the economic system, regulating some of the most crucial reforms that even you recognize the historic success that you have never achieved, from pension reform, to reforming the labour market and so on, where there has been a high level of consensus with the social partners. By the way, they themselves acknowledge that the time of the Government of the Transitional Left was the time of the worst social dialogue in history and that the current one was incomparably better, and yet you demolish this government. This is an extremely unstated doing, it must be said very clearly and it is very clear that what you are saying today confirms what Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote – the overthrow of this government will destabilise Slovenia and bring it again to bankruptcy. This is all the more obvious if we look at what the Commissioner is offering for the programme. Don't look at these things personally, it's about Slovenia. "We must guard and develop the public sector." It's a literal quote. There was not a word about entrepreneurship, except that they were plagued by fear. People of God, do you know on what today in the modern world any country can build its prosperity? On a good, successful entrepreneurship that needs to create conditions. This is, if you want, in the case of Slovenian case, an increase in payment discipline, a financial spasm that burdens the Slovenian bank, needs to be broken down, a bubble of real estate needs to be given relief, tax relief, unloading, and relief for new companies to live through the first few critical years, Slovenia must be made at least as favoured to entrepreneurship as Austria is. Then we did something for the next generations, not by protecting and strengthening the public sector. I ask you kindly whether anyone has heard of any country in the world that has come out of any crisis by protecting and strengthening the public sector. I would like to know this case very much, but I know some very serious contraventions, so by the way, any macro-economy textbook lists them as a number of things — contrary cases, of course. And if we put into this the fact that the strengthening of entrepreneurship of a favourable environment, the fact that entrepreneurship must be a value, the fundamental value of our society, was not a word, but the protection and strengthening of the public sector is offered, then, forgive me, given the difficult economic situation, given the difficult reforms that are ahead of us, this whole debate sounds like that old Slovenian story that the Butals and the Smarts fought but did not win, the Butals won. What else is offered for the end? It's predicted that the cleaners, some red-orange illustration, and in the same breath, this person is called a warm person. It does not seem to me that threats are not exactly a reflection of a warm person, but if anyone was afraid because you were talking about the fear that skeletons would fall from the closets and that is why you are actually tearing down the government, then it is now obvious that the fear of the European Union, which will be obvious, in view of what I read from Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, is based on estimates that some patient who was already on the path of financial recovery, is now becoming sick again on the whole line. And just for the end, because I'm a Gorenjec, allow me just one more note. I will thank Mrs Alenka Bratušek very much for signing the initiative for the University of Gorenje and asking her to take this project along with the Gorka project, including the Croatian water supply and the Hotemaže-Britoff road and those routes on the road to the airport in Shenčur to the end. But it would be totally absurd for a person from Gorenjska to take over the government’s leadership, which of these projects was either stopped or even sadly died. However, I want everyone to be aware that before Slovenia is a difficult period, a fateful period and that it is exactly what Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said, the collapse of the government means only the destabilisation of Slovenia and the nearness of its bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. A respected choir! Since my colleague Master Grimes has taken my word, I'd like to be precise. I quote what I actually said after the magnetogram: "I believe that today Master Alenka Bratušek will be elected First President of the Government in Slovenia alone, but if we happen to fail to form a new government in the next step, this would constitute an ecclatic violation of the Slovenian Constitution and a dangerous precedent for similar situations in the future." Of course, I am more concerned about something else that I read on one of the media websites. Under the picture of the outgoing President, he writes: "The best President of the Government in the mandate 2004-2008 and 2012-13, Janez Janša, due to the legal structure against him this time in the form of a KPK... Probably not for long." That's what I'm worried about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Master Vogrin, behind him Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! Respectable citizens and citizens! To begin with, let me start again with a wise thought by Albert Einstein: "Very few people are able to express their views unharmed, which differ from the prejudices of their social environment. Most people can't even shape such views." Well, I am one of those who are capable, and I am proud of it, so my debate will be a little out of context. It is interesting that today in Parliament we have "This Happy Day or the Mother is getting married" a cheerful game. Because we're putting someone away, we're putting someone away, but people are hungry. You know why I know that? Because I — and I’m not talking to feel sorry for you — are among those who have just made a fatal mistake and bankrupted. Well, that's not the worst of it. The worst part is if you fail. If you're a political prostitute and you're going to one side and now you're going to the other side. It is possible to get out of bankruptcy, from political prostitution — never. Interestingly, Janez Janša is responsible for all the problems of Slovenia. From about 21 years of independent Slovenia was in the government until today 5 years, 16 years were the second. Responsibility is much broader. The US Institute found the reasons for Slovenia's bankruptcy. I will quickly point them out: division before creation, work is not a value, irresponsible parliamentarians, gloating over failures, false myth about the modesty of the Slovenians, continuing accusations, we are not financial literate, we have no own views, we have no goals, a liberalised labour market, a tax hell, bureaucratic killers, and, ultimately, we do not like entrepreneurs. We can't do anything out of the crisis because we just don't think about anything else but how we're going to share. Yesterday, I was in Parliament until midnight, and I was reviewing what we were saying when we were putting up the current government and then Commissioner Janez Janša. Interesting! "I believe that by his election we shall punish him, because macroeconomic forecasts are bad." Who do you think said that? Interesting — me. John Janša then took on a heavy burden, and I assessed it myself, in magnetograms, that it was a severe punishment. The punishment is so much greater if you have to have traitors in the government who have proven to be traitors throughout their history. And the current government cannot be successful for a simple reason – because in its composition, Dr. Gregor Virant, the party president, who has betrayed his political allies, has also in his client. Alenka Bratušek will read from my book, but soon a book on the bankruptcy of Slovenia will be published: "The truths we least want to hear would be most useful to us." Mrs Alenka Bratušek, the truth that this government cannot be successful is painful – it cannot be because there are no basic conditions met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Vogrin, for better planning for further work, I would like to inform you that all colleagues from the Positive Slovenia Group have given up further discussions. That is why it is now the turn of Dr Ljubica Jelusič, for which she would be Kristina Valenčič, and they also have very little time, and then Mrs Patricia Šulin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The candidate for Prime Minister of the Government mentioned three objectives in her performance today. She mentioned normalisation, dialogue and expertise, and it is interesting that some in defence of the current government claimed that these three objectives were also pursued by the current government. I would like to say that, at least as far as the profession is concerned, almost certainly the current government did not have a good attitude towards it, particularly not to the science, research sector, school system and so on. This system is in a lot of trouble today. Young people, young researchers are looking for a way out of the country, assistants are losing their skills, teachers are running out of students and lectures, research and projects on our home market are no longer available except for Mr Rončević. They apply for European projects where very much of their own participation, their own money, is not needed now in poor research and higher education. Thus, this right attitude towards the profession of the current government could be seen here. Well, this cynicism, which was heard today about the profession by the President of the current government, was also associated with the memory of the Pahor government when he said that Pahor also spoke about expertise when he composed his government, and then that they were in his government not experts, but university professors. Well, and since I was one of these university professors in the Pahor government, I can also say that when I came to the Ministry of Defence, I didn't ask people about whether and where they had their party books, but what they knew. Maybe that was the teacher's deformity when you ask people what they know and what they want to do. I was not interested, even though I knew that some of the obvious sympathizers were also SDS or even members of different parties, among others mentioned earlier. I wasn't interested in their membership, but what they're willing to do for the Ministry of Defense. The university professor, who respects expertise and knowledge, is interested in whether his colleagues are willing to invest in the progress of their country and government in particular their knowledge, not the issue of political loyalty. I am sure and I hope that our candidate for President of the Government will have a greater respect for her thinking and her work in this regard. Today, the issue of national security has remained more at stake. This is the area where professional, professional and professional autonomy is extremely important. I would not hope to say that there was a lot of professional autonomy in the current government, as far as this area is concerned. However, I can say and commend Minister Hojs for having made sure, as far as the defence is concerned, that he has implemented some important projects from the fact that he has succeeded in adopting a defence strategy on the Government, a medium-term defence plan, and that he has somehow maintained the entire defence system, particularly the army outside the incidents which normally accompany this resort. Therefore, he is grateful for what he has been able to do in a situation that even his sector in this government has not been favored. The defence sector was also affected by the overall austerity scheme. If our Pahor's government has already taken most of the means to modernise, then this type of action or this type of attitude towards the defence sector has continued in the current government. Not only did Minister Hojs, in addition to losing funds for modernisation, also began to lose his people, namely people in the operational part of the defence system, and these are members of the Slovenian Army and people in the protection and rescue system, especially those of whom the safety of every citizen at different ends of Slovenia is crucial, these are those who work in the information centres and take care of the emergency call system, namely 112. Let me just say one interesting thing about this attitude towards the human resources factor, particularly in the Slovenian Army. The first Janševa government had 7 000 100 people in the Slovenian Army there in 2007, and a very poor relationship between officers, officers and soldiers. The ratio was largely in favour of the officers. Since 2007, two governments have worked very hard to raise the number of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to what was envisaged, namely 8 000 500. We never got to that number, but we stopped at 7000 600. The current situation in the Slovenian Army after one year of this government is again 7 000 100. Those who were mainly professional soldiers, those who had fixed-term contracts and who had to be renewed for a certain period of time were out. That is to say, those people through whom the operational protection of this country is actually carried out. In short, things and concern for the personnel carried out for almost five years are lost after one year of operation of this government. I hope that the new government and the new Prime Minister will be able to maintain a positive attitude and a positive attitude towards the professional autonomy of the Slovenian Police as regards the position of the Slovenian Armed Forces in our national security system. For the end, I would also like to say how I know the future president of the government. In particular, as Director of the Directorate of Budget at the Ministry of Finance, it was one of the most demanding negotiations in the allocation of budgetary resources. She was very careful, very cost-effective, and did not allow herself to be persuaded by various political, emotional, and bombastic explanations about why someone needed more money. I know that when she looks again, we will say that, after two years, she will probably be very surprised and very concerned about the situation she will get. But I'm sure she'll be very careful and cost-effective about what she'll be managing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Patricia Schulin, then Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u102	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings for me, too. If I look back on this last year and on the run-through of the government, I have to say that everything was before it was easy. It inherited a catastrophic financial situation as well as economic inefficiency. To her, to her work, there has been a series of manipulations, lies and discredits to the President of the Government, which we are also listening to in this Chamber today — unfairly, I must say. When the government started working a good year ago, it had to face the weak points of our economy, Slovenian development, such as an inflexible labour market, which is still a large bar, a problem of the financial system and not a sufficiently competitive business environment. The spending of the state budget in the previous 2009-2011 mandate was too much for every year to €2 billion, which unfortunately was not reflected in economic development, but only social peace was bought by the previous government. First, the new government had to take the view that spending should be reduced and placed in the budget in such a way as to make it real, as it has done. During a one-year period, the Government has also prepared three packages of measures that have a direct impact on the economy. The recovery packages adopted by the Government are understood to reflect sadly slowly and will either reflect in this year and also later. If we did not want to slip over the edge of gross domestic deficit, the budget expenditure had to be reduced, as we were also reminded by the European financial institutions. A large consensus with the social partners has almost unanimously adopted a pension reform that will bring almost €300 million into the budget this year. This government has established quality over the projects for which European cohesion policy funds are drawn, so that by 2015 all the funds available to us from Europe can be used up. Surely it must be admitted that this government had no magic wand like it had none so far and will not have any further. However, I am personally concerned about the programme presentation of the future mandate-holder, as well as the views of the other parties that are expected to join the new government. Not only are those who have brought Slovenia to the brink of financial sustainability during the period 2009-2011 but also those who are confined to the freezing of functions and the Bianca of withdrawals, as well as to the plagiarization of master's tasks – they are not disturbed by the fact that they are programmely inconsistent. In short, inconsequential. In presenting the programme design of a possible new mandate-holder, the main focus was on the budget rebalancing, tax raising, in order to consolidate public finances, as well as a very silent position on state property and the rejection of a bad bank – worrying. The OECD reminds us of the necessity of withdrawing the country from the economy or privatising state property and of accelerating structural reforms to increase the competitiveness of our economy. There's not much to talk about today. In any case, I personally want all the good new government. What happens with the suitcases and chairs and no political calculations, we'll tell each other very soon. If today's confirmation of the new mandate holder is confirmed, this story will begin to take place very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, then Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! To begin the determination of control over the property situation, Zoran Jankovic writes what he did not report: he did not report the securities of Krka, he did not report EUR 29 000 500 – but it is a change. Mr Zoran Jankovic did not report 767 000 euros in 2000 and something else, in 2008, 631 euros, next year 304, 361 thousand and so on and so on. Mr Zoran Jankovic did not report 2.4 million euros either. For 2.4 million euros, we don't know where and what. This was between 2006 and 2012. His son, Jura Jankovic, reported 50,000 euros in 2006-2010 and spent 1 million euros. So, why do we need a new government? Yes, because there are no 2012 and 2013 reports here. Zoran Jankovic ran out of money. We need a new government – probably Jurek too, because then he won't have to report it again. When asked how he did not do so: In the face of the above-mentioned facts, the person interviewed on the committee explained that he was not interested and that he did not know where and how the company received money from the sons. When he calls, then, the father calls, and the son says, "Father, of course you will." How does he get it? Yeah, he's going through some companies; Dante Base, KLM investments. And how does it end? Yeah, it's Zoran Jankovic again. I'm half a million euros, I'm half a million and 100,000 there, but always – be careful – in one day. In one day! Here I agree with my fellow Member Virant when I listened to him earlier and he said he would not support the new government if Zoran Jankovic did not resign as party president and as mayor. But I hope it's physical, not with some thin paper, purpose, and so on. The only thing I would understand is that after today's non-trust vote by the newly emerging coalition, I will vote against it myself, because if I voted for it, I would vote for Bratusek and then I would vote for it when she said it was a different government for the 21st century; it's the hardest to start, and then it would go easier and faster. Zoran Jankovic also found it difficult to start, believe me, with the principal's salary to reach so many millions of euros, but look, then look, he goes, he can go, he can go, he can go. You take 300,000 euros each year, you put it in your pocket, your sons give their wives a month after about 70,000, and so on. So if we get a new government, then through Alenka Bratusek, who as an expert is also responsible for those two billion each year's deficit, we get the opportunity — just these guys — to continue their transactions. Do you know what the problem is? The main problem is that this government coalition has passed the Bad Bank Act and in this law, and you are afraid of it – you are afraid that when the credit maps open, names and surnames will be written and it will be seen that some of them, including some of them dedicated to Parliament, have received about 100,000 euros for one tower. So the guarantee is a tower, and they got about 100,000 Euros of credit. The others couldn't get it. Today it was said: more equality. More equality, and some today have said that with the new government comes a decent life, that it will be a just payment for the work done. My dears, a fair payment for the work done – over 60, 70,000 people were sent to the stock exchange in the time of the Pahor government. This was a fair payment for the work done. You're talking about greater equality. Of course, greater equality. My mother will still have 180 euros in pension, and Jankovic will have some 300, 400 or 600 000 euros each year, which he will forget and he will not have a headache. You know what he even found out. He found out he didn't even know his assets were changing. So how much does it actually have? And now, if Brother is going to make up anything, she said she would go with the balance first. I think that Struklja should be appointed Minister for Education, Science, Culture, Economic and Agriculture, but I am not sure about Juret Jankovic, perhaps for finance, and I can tell Janez Janša that he is wrong and that at least one international expert at a bad bank must be replaced with Juret Jankovic, because Jure Jankovic will not save a bad bank, but will bring money from Cyprus. He's there, okay? They took him, they know where he is, and they're bringing him back. You are aware that mainly you, who are also in Positive Slovenia, at least some, have participated in the LDS with 34 Members and you have already told us how and what you will do for the nation. You know what you've done, we've got 130 thousand of them out of jobs, we've got companies on the bucket. Earlier, a colleague of mine, former Secretary of Defense, told me how accurate Bratusek was. Yes, she will be surprised that there are one billion fewer deficits in this budget than in those that she has made up. Of course, and what are you going to do? You'll raise VAT, you'll owe the country, that's all. What does that mean? As a result, in a year or so, we will become even more poor. We're already on the full edge, but with you, the country will sink to ruin. That's why you won't have my support, and I hope we do what we can. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, then Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u106	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I congratulate Mrs Bratusek on her presentation. I listened to both presentations, very detailed, very carefully, and I did not expect John Janš to have such a presentation. I support those who say we don't have to apologize for what he reported and where he went. For this we have an anti-corruption commission and those involved. They should do the same with Jankovic. We must respect the Institute for the Control of this State – the courts, the anti-corruption commission, investigators, criminals – and if the most visible representatives of this country do not respect, then who will respect the right and give the signal. So there is no doubt about what needs to be done and who needs to be done. From this point of view, today is a crucial moment. John Janša could come to this National Assembly at any time for a secret, but he did not. Today, we are in a situation where a candidate for a new candidate came for a secret, and she said, as far as I'm concerned, what I was actually expecting. Today we hear a weakness analysis. Look, if we're going to deal with weaknesses in the coming months, weeks, then we're just going to talk about what Janez Janša's government has done. But we have to continue our work, do good work, and do what was bad. That's what people expect from us. It is said that the cause of the constructive mistrust is none other than Janez Janša himself and Jankovic indirectly, directly and directly. That's the real reason. What does it matter? It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we have peace, peaceful atmosphere, confidence that there is no fear, no fear, no extraordinary conditions, no extraordinary meetings, no night meetings, no hate speech. It is important to correct injustices, to hear people, to understand the hardships of people who yell at us to do something. Something needs to be done for new jobs, investments need to be accelerated, credit crunches need to be eliminated, not just bank rehabilitation. Businesses can't live either, because we can fix credit crunches and companies won't be able to work because they don't get credit. It is necessary to rehabilitate companies that are over-indebted. Only companies can create new jobs and help businesses that have a product that has production cannot obtain resources to produce. That's what needs to be done. People have to be respected. We are talking about the Slovenian State Holding – we are not against the Slovenian State Holding. We are against the way we will eliminate the Slovenian State Holding without the National Assembly having control, without having state property and without knowing what we are going to sell. We must, ladies and gentlemen, decide whether to sell Gorenje, or sell Helios, Telekom, or sell Krka, or sell other companies. This is very important to us. It's about jobs, it's about work. People want to live and want to depend solely on their work, so it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to say "no" to the extraordinary process. You need to say yes to a good relationship, to respect people. We have to listen to each other. Mrs. Bratusek is a good candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Ambrožich, behind him, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today is not the time to talk about double criteria or double morality, but it is time to look ahead and to identify a new leader, who will be his future, I hope that, above all, a skilled, government team that will enable all citizens and citizens to enjoy a better or better way of life and will not take up their rights already. In the past, however, the professional reputation of the candidate was built by both the left and the right coalition if we want to use these omens when it was confirmed by the Director of the National Budget Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia. In a joke, you could even say that in those days or those two terms she was the financial director of the largest company in Slovenia or the state budget. The very conduct of our country's financial circulation, and even more so its openness to all those who are eager to engage in dialogue in the interests of our country and, as a result, each individual is a good way forward. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, born Štajerka, naturalized Kranjčanka, and especially the likely Prime Minister of the Government of all Slovenes and Slovenes, enjoys my support for the likely candidacy or the candidacy for the election of the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the highest functions in the country could be occupied by a woman. This can also be a positive impulse that we can send to Europe and the world. It is only right that today’s chosen Janko also receives the fairy - tale Bullet, or Alice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, Mr Mirko Brulc is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, all present in this hall! Today we heard a presentation by a candidate for the future prime minister. I must say that in this Chamber or the predecessor of this Chamber, I have listened practically, except for one Prime Minister, to all presentations, including some failed governments. Unfortunately, however, I must conclude that no candidate has ever come forward without the programme. Without all the news, visions, look forward. Flossules are too little for a president or a president of the government. See, after the government of Janez Janša achieved what was cited, as noted by Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on the basis of the German financial analysts' centres, that the government saved this country from bankruptcy, achieved reforms and many other successes, the strong people from the power centres that established Positive Slovenia at that procession were further strengthened by the financial oligarchy, whose candidate is Mrs Alenka Bratušek, found that this could mean conversion, also political. Despite the media machinery, they demanded swift action and did not choose the means to demolish Janša's government. If the matrix works, all funds and all methods in this country are always allowed. Colleagues and colleagues, the candidate lady said in the beginning that she had a miraculous moment, something so changed that she had an opportunity she had not even dreamed of. I thank her for this frankness, she enjoys ruling that this is a miraculous moment for her, but I wonder how she will rule under such conditions when these centres of power and the financial oligarchy she has put behind her neck. See, a year ago, on 9 January, colleague Gregor Virant said that Positive Slovenia is a party without concept, and was represented in Mrs Bratušek's performance that this party actually has no concept and is not suitable for running this country. At that time, Mr Virant is an important member, a strong man of this party, Mr Jakič replied that Virant is a bluffer and a liar. And look what's changed since then. In fact, I see that the bluff has become the value of this party – you have previously condemned it to the other side, but now the bluffs and the lies that have appeared have become a value. Mr Jakič also said that Mr Virant had marked the premium as a Trojan horse. These are just readings. Now I ask – it is a pity that Mr Jakić and the candidate are not either. I must say that such arrogance and ignorance towards Members has not yet been shown by any candidate; even in the afternoon there is no candidate. There has never been a candidate with such ignorance until parliament! This ignorance is similar to Jankovic's ignorance when he left this parliament – to be elected and to go, it is a disgrace in Europe! Now I'm asking who the Trojan horses of the Janša Coalition were. I'm afraid Roman's not here to answer that. We don't know that, but we do know that some of the bosses have already shown up to control the candidate. One is – he is leaving – who said that he would be the boss, that he would be in the first place and that there would be a towing horse, we are back at different horses. But this is not the only patron, the only superior, here will be much stronger, but with this guarantee I guarantee you will not pull your nose out of the mud – with this reference to to towing horses. I have to say that a lot of things have been said by the candidate herself, who will be the boss, who will be the supervisors. She said that the system of parliamentary democracy works well only if we send it out at the same time for all those who have left Parliament or have never entered it at all – those who have left, Mr Golobič with Zares, Mrs Kresalova with LDS, in other forms, of course. This technology of creating new customers has been developed and talked about active citizens – okay, but we know that someone has presented themselves specifically to be an active citizen, and that is exactly what she said. So, these patrons, these tutors of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who will come – like Mr Golobič, Mrs Kresalova, former President, who admitted and wrote it herself because they are not here. With the establishment of parasitic parties, only parliamentary parties will have power. This is a major threat to Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore has not said more than two words about the fight against corruption – that it will be a priority, how it will implement it, but it has not stated. And its starting points should either be spoken of for another half hour. I'm afraid I have to finish so others can talk. But I warn her and urge her to leave the moment of wonder, sweetness by power, because this lust by authority will not end well for the Slovenes, and not for her either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc is next. Get Mr. Boyan Starman ready and the mag behind him. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know how it's always my turn to go after Jerowsky. Comrade Jerovšek, in politics, we can think differently, but we're still friends, right? And a Trojan horse and these things - I don't fit in. I think it's right for us to say that. I am pleased today that there is a relatively patient debate and I am afraid that it will be much worse. You know, Fran Milkinski Ježek died today. Do you think what kind of chance he would write, with the title – someone has already mentioned this today – "The Clue of the Government of Janez Janša". And who would cry? Who's gonna cry today, I don't know. Look, I'm not making any illusions myself. Pahor's government fell after three years. What we heard here at that time is not comparable to today's day, because the opposition today is completely different from the opposition three years ago on that side, how bad it was. I expect that fire and running sulphur will be on the other side when the ministers are called and so on. But the Social Democrats are used to it, we've been going through it for three years, and I think we'll still be. Of course, we are very different in this coalition, but with some human relationship, understanding, yielding, negotiating we can all survive for the good of Slovenia. I'm not making any illusions that it's gonna be easy or anything. It'll be very difficult to tax the rich. It will be very difficult to confiscate assets that have been acquired in a non-transparent manner. It will be very difficult to prevent the grey economy, to reintroduce the cash registers, whatever we have tried in the previous term. Everything was bad. We all had to go through the referendums and destroy everything. But you can't do without it. 10 billion, they say, is in the grey economy and if we only pick up 300 million, we save health care. So it will take a lot, a lot of patience and everything. Look, there have been good ministers in this government, but time has now run them over, and in one year there was nothing much to be done. Bogowicz - hat down! Mr Vizjak – negotiation, adoption of legislation and so on. But it wouldn't be possible if the opposition wasn't smart. We have passed a pension law that is not good, which chandeliers some recipients of pensions and so on. But we accepted it because it's urgent and we can fix it in two years. And we didn't go to the referendum for that, for that, for that. We didn't have Shoba to throw stones into parliament and stuff. I was surprised by Karl Erjavec as foreign minister. When it was called, I said it wouldn't count. But look what he did, how he settled matters with Croatia, because it was a good fact he inherited from Prime Minister Borut Pahor and so on. Today, the President of the Government explains to me how his family's cash register is going on, how it is organised, but I don't care, who paid him the ticket and who paid him half the car and so on – this doesn't belong here in Parliament. We have more important things to discuss. We say: foreign investors are waiting at the border, we will sell assets and so on. Just one case, people, dear. Fructal bought a foreigner, Serbs, the Vipava Valley will be the first desert in Slovenia, because they will not buy peaches and people are already taking motor saws and they have nothing else to plant. This is a foreign investor who is only looking for an extraordinary brand and technology to put somewhere in his place. They are not all the same, but that is why so much greater caution is needed when holding and selling state property. It's not exactly going together, but we understand each other. I am sure that the new mandate-holder will have a very difficult task, and if we do not help her, then it is better that she resigns today. But our common interest was also when Janša came to the government to make this government work, so that my children, my grandchildren, me and everyone had a decent life, could not work. Now we're dealing with this corruption. The same are Janša, Jankovich and others. It's out of the question that I'm setting my back on anyone's back. We have the organs to get these things settled and put things in order. If he's guilty, goodbye, and let him get out of politics, set up a company, let him work and look for connections, financial, whatever he wants, not at the expense of taxpayers or non-transparent cases that are present here. I want this new government to be successful – we do not yet know how it will be composed – and to endure until the end of the term of office. Then I say good-bye, but at least one term would end up as it should be. Yes, Jerovšek, you will help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman would have a word, 30 seconds, but I can see he's not in the hall right now. The next one has the word mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, prepare Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Well, hello, everyone here. The fact is that Slovenian society is simply not ready to admit that we have lived above our capabilities in recent years. We are not prepared to change our way of life, we are not prepared to reform the pension system, despite the fact that demographic circumstances are forcing changes to take place in this area. We were not prepared to reform the labour market, we are not prepared to pay taxes, contributions. In Slovenia, national sport has become the avoidance of payment of any obligations, both taxes, contributions, invoices and credits. We cannot even unify ourselves with regard to the rehabilitation of banks for fear of exposing those involved in the granting of Taliban loans without being covered. We can't deal with life without dairy cows. This is the situation and mirror of our Slovenia, so this government has taken on this problem and the unappreciative tasks, it has undertaken reforms, because by this way of life we are pushing Slovenia to the brink of survival, and in one year we have to admit, it has achieved a lot of results. It had a strategic plan, labour market reform, pension reform, health reform, tax reform, adopted budget for 2013, 2014, passed law on budget implementation, also a plan to accelerate economic growth and many of these steps have also been implemented. One of the key priorities of this government in the development strategy of Slovenia until 2020 is the creation of a business environment and incentives for entrepreneurship. I did not see this today in the programme presented by the mandate-holder at all. Gradual changes in the tax system have created business conditions that will stimulate economic recovery as quickly as possible and also support the Government's economic policy efforts for economic recovery, in particular micro, small, medium-sized enterprises, farmers and farmers with complementary farming activities. This is also the priority of this government for the development of these small companies in Slovenia. I hope there's a priority in advance. Let me stress what the Government has done in raising the business environment and the favourable tax environment. It reduced the tax rate from corporate income tax from 20 gradually over five years to 15%. There has been an increase in investment relief from 30 % to 40 %, without limitation on tangible fixed assets, and there is also a higher overall relief from 40 % to 100 % for investment in R & D. A flat-rate taxation system has also been introduced by setting a standard expenditure rate of 70% for the smallest business operators and will create an enabling business environment for the development of new business ideas, while this taxation may have a stimulating impact on the scope of existing activities and the recording of new business entities, which should be a priority in Slovenia. We have also raised the annual transport threshold for entry into the VAT system from EUR 25 000 to EUR 50 000 of tax transport, introduced the obligation to pay the tax on financial services, which are exempt from VAT under the law governing the system of value added tax. The scope of the property tax increased from EUR 500,000 in 2013 and 2014 to EUR 500,000. So, taxation of luxury. A very important package of measures to consolidate public finances is activities to reduce tax evasion. We all know that this is a very big burning problem in Slovenia. According to the European Commission, Slovenia belongs to countries with a relatively high share of the grey economy. Further effects towards tax control efficiency are expected by the Government from a project to merge the tax and customs administration into a single public revenue collection service planned as of 1 July of this year. With regard to all these facilitations, it must be said that the credit crunch effect is greater this year, but this requires the rehabilitation of the banking system as one of the key measures. This will help to eliminate the credit crunch and contribute to the start-up of economic growth and to better conditions for the development of Slovenia, and this is certainly the adoption of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. During the financial crisis, Slovenia's banking system proved to have significant structural problems and the Ministry of Finance, as custodian of the stability of the Slovenian banking system and as responsible for the preparation of systemic solutions, developed measures to help strengthen the banking sector in the long term. The aim of the law is broader than the resolution of banks itself, as the aid will also help banks to rehabilitate an economy that is critically indebted and is the key to the problem, both credit and capital contractions and also low economic growth. When the DUTB or the Bank's Claims Management Company operate, the credit crunch will drop as banks will release the capital after the transfer of the claims to poor investments in their balance sheets, and this capital can be used for new loans. This situation and the triggers of this situation definitely mean political imperfection in my opinion, and we will therefore pay ourselves the price of Slovenian sovereignty. If there is no single support at the key points, these are: the momentum of economic growth, which will not be possible without the prior resolution of the banking system and the reform of the labour market, which I hope will also be adopted tomorrow, without transparent governance of state assets, without the ratification of Croatia's accession to the European Union, without referendum legislation, without reform of the judicial system and changes in the political system, and, last but not least, without a record of the golden fiscal rule in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which definitely means the self-limitation of every single authority in relation to budgetary policy and ensures greater transparency of the state money business, which is undoubtedly a contribution to democracy. From what we have heard in the future mandate-holders' programme, I assume that the country will continue to operate with the budget rebalancing at the expense of debt. So, a respected candidate for a terminator, or I appreciate your stalemate, that after all the baskets you have decided for this place, but I believe that the Government, which is created as an alternative, does not have sufficient uniform support for key projects, which are the Slovenian State Holding and Bad Bank Project, in view of all the views we Members have heard and expressed in this Parliament in the past year. Only the aim of removing Mr Janez Janša without considering how to proceed is, in my opinion, an reckless and harmful act for Slovenia and shows the immature policy offered as an alternative after some systemisation. I believe that by simply reorganising and changing the systemisation within the National Assembly we underestimate citizens and citizens and thus do not justify their expectations. Have someone answer me, honourable Members and Members of the esteemed National Assembly, whether after the plagiarism has been confirmed, we will ask the future President of the Government to resign or ask her whether she will offer her own resignation after possible confirmation as President of the Government if it becomes clear that it is the plagiarism of a master's job. I personally believe that the situation we are in and the alternative offered is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable magus. Alenka Bratušek, candidate for President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I won't be long because my predecessors have already said a lot. First of all, let me say I'll back the mag. Alenko Bratušek as First President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Because I believe that it is capable of successfully leading a new government along the path of a successful recovery of our economy and the whole country, towards improving the standard of living of our citizens and citizens. I receive such wishes by citizens on a daily basis by e-mail or through the social network – they especially want employment and the standard of a decent life. And why don't I support early elections? Because the state just can't afford it. It cannot afford a 4-6-month-old dead race, nor would the results of the new early elections be significantly different from those of the last elections. So, if we can't take a successful path out of the crisis now, we won't be able to agree after the re-election. A successful path from the crisis will therefore require the urgent cooperation of both the positions and the opposition. The division of ours and yours has our citizens and citizens already so much as full of suitcases and I am alone with this opinion. I believe or believe that the new government will be successful, for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor to prepare Mr Robert Horvat and Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u118	Respected and respected! I suggest we look at the situation soberly and realistically, without glamour, and find ourselves in a difficult situation. On the other hand, to view this country as a land of opportunity. I believe it has a range of potentials that can be realized. And the prerequisite for that is smart policy. Focusing on real - life solutions and helping each other to do so — both those who are having a hard time living these times and those who have ideas and who want to succeed with these ideas into a good community. In these days I am on the street for all the known reasons, and I must admit that there is a lot of patience among people, that people have moderate expectations of knowing that we are in a difficult situation, but at the same time that this difficult time has not robbed them of the hope that tomorrow can be better. The prerequisite for tomorrow to be better is to return optimism and hope to this society and to this community. Alenka Bratušek is today in her next speech – I must say that he was wonderful – she showed that she wanted to bet on the values on which we were founded as a nation, and that word "they" Alenka, was a beautiful feat. In this respect, I think it is time to focus on the key problems, to look at them soberly, and to change in key things the economic policy that has made Slovenia's prospects for recovery worse. Remember – we were already on our way to recovery, which we unfortunately cut with samples copied from elsewhere that did not produce results to date. Such a public financial picture, especially the picture of our economy, has deteriorated radically during this period and today all problems are greater than they were a year ago. Not because of the government's success or failure, but because at the right time we couldn't successfully cut them. Dear Mrs. Bratusek, dear Alenka! For the last time today, I am addressing you as a co-worker in the parliamentary benches, and I thank you for a year of fruitful cooperation in the Committee on Finance. I think that, despite the minor differences in things, we have worked well together and we know how to go beyond each other, and I believe that you will be able to do so tomorrow when you are President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I want a lot of wisdom, a lot of patience, and more patience in our relationships. I hope that today is an important breakthrough in bringing new energy and a new spirit of cooperation to the country, which is essential to us, and that the changed roles between the opposition and the coalition will not blur the sense and, I am sure, also the desire that we all want to do well together and that we must cooperate in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrovat has the word, then Mrs Polonca Komar, and Dr Andreja Črnak Maglič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respectable candidate! In your opening remarks, you said a sentence that surprised me a little. You said, "I don't promise results, but I promise you a lot of work." And I'll come back to that sentence later. When I listened to your introductory presentation, and even when I listen to the debates now some of the outline of the new coalition, it seems to me that everything will be different from tomorrow. It appears that there will be no more debt, no more savings, no more optimism, and a just and social state. While we need a billion more, we may raise VAT by some two percent, the banks will recapitalise so that craftsmen and entrepreneurs can get credit again. The economy will come to life, and everyone will have a good time. And I wonder if that's what's gonna happen, and I think only the naive believe it. The objective of today's debate, the objective of all developments in relation to constructive mistrust and all the things that have happened before, is only one: to bring down Janez Janša at all costs. That's the only goal. Since this was not possible with a more competitive policy, it happened in a different way, in a more sophisticated way – by a report from the anti-corruption commission. However, I must say that I have listened very carefully today to John Janša's statement, and in my opinion today he has challenged every point of the judgment of the anti-corruption commission. Too bad he had a chance to say it here for this payphone, but there's no way to say it anywhere else. It's too bad they didn't listen to him or ask him for an opinion or explain those who have been with him so far in the coalition, the closest partners. But some of them took off and went into some kind of politics that led to this crisis. See, during the period 2004-2008, the SDS with Janez Janša at the helm proved what it means to run the country successfully, not just the country, but also the Council of the European Union. And in 2012 – remember the situation in which we took power. That's the second time we've done it. The country was in a serious crisis and the commitment of coalition partners in the government was: we will get ourselves out of the crisis. We'll get ourselves out of the crisis without any foreign help. And what happened? We have brought the deficit to a reasonable level, we have reduced unnecessary expenditure and stopped the spread of money where it is not necessary. Good work results from the 2013 and 2014 budgets, which allow the country to be socially just on the one hand and, on the other hand, the economic growth headlines are designed. In one year, what the previous government failed in three years was machined. That's a fact, the results speak for themselves. With the ZUJF, which has been aligned with the social partners, we have set up a framework that allows for a permanent stabilisation of public finances. We've passed a series of laws, but only to mention pension reform. We accepted it in a coordinated manner, all of us. Tomorrow we will probably adopt labour law, including harmonised legislation. Well, it was doing well. We have laid down the conditions for a renewed economic breakthrough and apparently the Yangtze government would have brought the country out of the crisis. That's what's become a problem. And we can't let that happen at any cost, and the attacks have begun. The attacks have begun, and I believe they have started with the establishment of a bad bank. I also agree with some who have already talked about the fact that when credit maps open, feathers will flutter. At that time, many will wonder what he was doing when he had power and influence. Now I'd like to touch the candidate, a few words about her. I wonder when I listened to her introductory presentation where the programme for the rescue of Slovenia and the Slovenians from the crisis is actually. There was nothing to talk about new jobs, increased wages in the economy, new social legislation – this has been the last year, respected colleagues and colleagues in Positive Slovenia, full of mouth. Do you hope to predict this for the next year when you come back to get your confidant? Do you hope to predict that all of this will happen, as I have now counted and what you have been talking about all year? I don't think you do. If we'd hoped, we'd have said it out loud. You said you'd start an economic development. I wonder how. Balanced public finances. How? You'll protect the public sector. What's up? You will increase confidence in the rule of law. Really? And now I'm going back to that sentence I said at the beginning. You said that yourself, I listened very carefully to you: "I do not promise results, but I promise you much work." I think it's wrong. It should be the other way around. I'm providing results and I don't even care if you work hard or a little bit. The results are important, because if there are no results, it will all be fog and I'm afraid of that. Now I'd just like to touch Dr. Virant's statement, which he said today: "Let's give Alenka Bratusek a chance. If everything goes well, the elections will be next spring, but if it doesn't work, then the elections will be early." That's what Dr. Virant said earlier. I'm afraid if you're thinking of doing this, you've taken Slovenia as a guinea pig and I'm sorry, colleague Bratusek, because you've got her hooked up to take on this role. All the other party presidents were full of mouth talking about how to, what to do, how to do, and no one had the courage to take over this function. You pushed that hot bone to your buddy Bratsek. I kind of feel sorry for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. She has a word because Mrs Polonce Komar is not, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, prepares Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u122	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, my colleagues are very welcome. So when we deal with a constructive mistrust today, we have to ask ourselves why we are talking about it. In the first place, we are talking about this not because we would not be concerned about the fate of the state of Slovenia, not because we are acting unconstitutionally, but because we are primarily talking about original sin, which is why we are sitting here today. This original sin, however, is in the errors committed by Prime Minister Janez Janša and read to him by the anti-corruption commission. To be objectively aware of this responsibility, he proved that he had spent most of his time explaining what he should have explained in the right place in time, namely in the anti-corruption commission. No, don't take us hostage – you're the hostages of your prime minister and he didn't have the courage and courage to give him up and lead the government forward as you've set yourself. On the other hand, I admit, I won't cry because you're leaving because I don't agree with the concept you offered us. Despite some of the projects I have supported and will support – pension legislation tomorrow, labour market reform and more – but I can say that I do not agree with the concept of governance as you have it. And this has clearly proved to be in the decline of GDP, in rising unemployment, you have so much to say about rising unemployment and the blame of our government for it, however. After 1993, this is the largest unemployment recorded in Slovenia, 124 thousand unemployed, and this unemployment continues to increase. No signs of recovery. I have to say, I'm glad the women are taking over the mandate. I think that the time of the big egos of the little boys must nevertheless grow and offer an opportunity for women – how we can rule in a different way; more consensually, agreedly, on the basis of greater expertise and on the basis of respect for each other, without being muddy. I think the concept she presented is that the economy is being revived, but the consolidation of public finances is not at the expense of suffocating one another, the right direction to follow. Last but not least, many global and European institutions have also come to realize this, which now advocate a changed direction of development – unlike the total neoliberal policy that you have led. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Romana Tomc has the floor, Mr Tomaž Lisec is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleague, other colleagues and colleagues! Dr. Črnak Meglič has given me an excellent starting point for this debate, saying that she does not agree with the concept of governance that the current Government had and is therefore pleased to leave. I must say that, on the other hand, I am looking forward to how compatible the concept of social policy, as represented by the party to the Social Democrats and the concept of social policy and governance, which is pictured by the Positive Slovenia. It's gonna be really interesting to keep track of it. It will be equally interesting to monitor how you will coordinate on some of the key issues that remain open in this country; how you will be able to harmonise how we will manage state assets in the future; how you will harmonise how we will rehabilitate Slovenian banks, the banking system. If I have been present here among you in the past tense, then it seems to me that I have heard completely conflicting views in this area. So it will be interesting to monitor once the chairs are distributed, how compatible the programs will be. In today's debate, however, I would point out some good and effective moves and actions by this government, structural reforms, because if we listened to this debate in Parliament, then it seems like the government has done nothing. On the contrary, if another government had done as much as it had done in the past year four years ago, there would be no need for a debate today. We would be completely different, in some other situation where we could actually talk about reviving the economy where we could talk about new jobs. As I say, I will point out some of the most important and most important of all certainly belong in the area of finance and in the area covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It must have been that area that the government was kind of afraid of before the beginning of the term. Experiences from the past government have been very painful and high expectations, and all eyes have been fixed on this area. And what happened? There was a complete surprise, and the government was very successful in this area. It was not only good, it was excellent; it accepted or accepted pension reform after the government had absolutely aligned it with all the social partners. The government brought before us a coordinated pension reform and we had no hard work. I expect that the same will happen to labour reform. These are the two key reforms that we have so longed for in recent years. These are the two reforms that ensure that we maintain credibility across the board so that we can borrow cheaper abroad so that we can finance our public spending. Because we have to admit and look into our eyes, because in Slovenia at this point we are not able to produce as much as our public consumption. That's what we say, compared to what we create, we live relatively well. The area covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in addition to the fact that it had to adopt very difficult laws or reforms, is extremely difficult because the most coordination is needed. It is easy to prepare some ideas, some solutions, write them down on paper, but then another story is how to make these solutions come true. It is necessary to coordinate with a number of expert groups, the public concerned, social partners, various chambers, family initiatives, non-governmental organisations – with all those who show any interest in Slovenia to have an impact on politics. And all of this has been done by the Ministry of Labour or the Minister personally. I am therefore surprised by the candidate's announcement that they will now start to promote or start a genuine social dialogue. As the debate on pension reform, on labour reform, on the bulk of our debates in Parliament and on the bulk of public debates was somehow behind some other measures, which were very important in this ministry. Let me mention a number of measures aimed at promoting youth employment. A very successful programme of active employment policy called or still referred to as the 'First Challenge'. He employed 3,000 unemployed young people. The country has earmarked EUR 20 million for this. In the procedure in the National Assembly we have a new law on scholarships, all in cooperation with the professional public, the interested public, with student services and student organisations. However, let me say here that I imagine a future scholarship policy even better than it is today. I believe that there is enough money in the country if it is only properly distributed so that all students in Slovenia can receive a scholarship. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon, of course, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education, which also needs to do something about education. A few more words about the ZUJF, which has become somehow on call in Slovenia for the reduction of the rights to social transfers, child allowances, scholarships and the like. They are, but the original sin is not the ZUJF. The original sin is the social legislation adopted by the previous government, which was only established in the beginning of 2012, according to a web of circumstances, when that government took office. Remember, since then, no more state pensions, no more protective allowances, no more state scholarships for young children. This is not a product of ZUJF, it is a product of social legislation that needs to be changed quickly in the future. And let me remind you, this is the work of the Government that advocates the high social security of Slovenian citizens and citizens. There is still much work to be done in this area, although I believe that, if appointed, the future government has been given a large service in this area by adopting the most important reforms, so that there will be no hard work here. Let me end by commenting on today's performance of a potential candidate. He was nice, very optimistic, positive, well-spoken, but I do think he was primarily a list of some wishes. We all know what we have to do. We all know that new jobs need to be done, that more investment needs to be made, that an economy must be encouraged in one way or another, but that there is no answer to how we will do this. Or, rather, some of the answers that we could understand between the lines did come to us. She told us that she would immediately approach the budget's rebalancing to correct the injustices that would be committed within the mandate of this Government. Do you know what that means? This means additional pressure on budget expenditure. But we didn't know where the money would come from to fund this expenditure, but there's not much chance. Whether we raise the VAT, which she indirectly predicted, or whether we will make an additional debt. One of these two poor options is likely to be taken into account if we are to make a budget rebalancing. The next thing that really surprised me was the hiring. It has announced a total human resources tsunami across all major areas in the state and public administration. It's a very bad trip. What surprised me most is that we are talking about new jobs, about economic development – entrepreneurship has not been mentioned in a single word, nor has the small economy been mentioned in a single word as a key factor in our development. That's what they say everywhere. We ourselves are aware that small companies in Slovenia are the ones on which we will be further developed. And nothing about them and nothing about how we will encourage the business environment, so that these companies will flourish more, and nothing about what we will do with our business environment, so that we may get some foreign investor in Slovenia. On the other hand, it was clearly stated that it was necessary to strengthen or something like that, that the public sector should be strengthened. Of course, we expect more detailed action further, but what has been said today – I think we can all be rightly concerned in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Mr Ivan Janez Janša, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Much has been said today, but some things need to be answered. I think that Mrs Tomc, who has discussed before me, is the principle of a topic that deserves more attention than has been given so far. This is a candidate for a term of office because she said: "As Prime Minister of the Government, I will call on all state officials and senior state officials, members of the supervisory boards and administrations who were appointed at the time of the collapse of the current coalition to withdraw themselves. I want all these people to be given the opportunity to leave their positions of honor, which they have been held dishonorably." Look, if, last February, when I was running here for this same city, I said something like that, there would be a plasma of allegations of personnel cleansing, after the personnel tsunami, about rematching, and probably the whole session would be about this topic. Now it's nothing. A peaceful threat that has no basis in the Slovenian legal order. The kind of coalition has absolutely nothing to do with the powers of the government or any other state authority. The coalition is a political creation. That's not what the constitution and the laws are talking about. This government has full powers, given its experience in 2011 and the legal opinion of that time, until a new government is appointed and all these appointments are legal and legitimate. That someone here threatens people who have had to meet the legal requirements for all these places and invites them to step down on their own, otherwise they will be chandeliers, which is the bulk of it. And then these same people are talking about some serious rhetoric that government clients are supposed to be using. By the way, the vast majority of these people appointed in our mandate do not belong to the largest government party or to the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's some kind of fiction. There are different political definitions and anyone who has been named has had to comply with the prescribed legal conditions. Last but not least, Mrs Bratušek was appointed director of the Directorate in our previous mandate, although she ran on the list of Liberal Democracy, which was then in opposition. She's just an example of you using rhetoric that doesn't hold. This, too, makes it particularly unworthy that this threat was said to have been made today. In the praises of Slovenian media candidates for a term of office, it is precisely that she was appointed director of the Directorate during the time of our government and Minister Bajuk, presented as some very positive reference. She was then a councillor of the Liberal Democracy and our government appointed her director of the Directorate. Now it threatens all those whom this government has appointed to withdraw, if you do not, we will take the appropriate measures or predict the measures that our coalition will take to pack the suitcases. We've come a long way. The next thing that calls for an answer is a constant repetition of respect for state institutions. Those speakers who spit over the government and the President of the Government call for respect for state institutions. Your Honor, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this Constitution, it is as a state institution, of which the Constitution most speaks, the government is defined and then the National Assembly and other institutions. You won't find any anti-corruption committees in this constitution. It's not mentioned in a word or half a word. In the whole of the European Union, you will not find any such institution as the anti-corruption commission appointed by the President of the State on the basis of such criteria as you have defined in the law in the previous term. So, respect for which institutions – or only those that answer you or all of them? For a long time, we listened to this rhetoric regarding the Constitutional Court — until December of last year. But when this Constitutional Court banned the two referendums you requested, it slipped away. Remember what some of you were saying about this state institution at the time. To the President of the Constitutional Court, the house was slowed down, and even before the building there were demonstrations, some of you said hello to this huronic one. So when we talk about the respect of state institutions, first of all, it is necessary to have scientists who are constitutional state institutions in this country and then have to have the same criteria for everyone. In all these performances of representatives of the newly formed coalition, unfortunately even those who were alone in the government, we have not actually heard, except for two exceptions, not a single good thing about this government. In one year of her term of office, this government has reached movements that the previous government has not only not achieved but has not come close to them in three years. Someone among the Members said that, of course, we did not have any blockades. Really? Really? Who blocked the key measures in the summer of 2012? Who collected the signatures for the referendums prohibited by the Constitutional Court? Maybe SDS? Several Members and Members of Parliament have read the SDS' largest government party so-called strong rhetoric. There were some quotes in there, some of which were taken from newspapers and had no connection with the client, and others are very real, and some are disturbing. Someone then brought a sign to this quote that it was intimidation. Now I'm going to read you something that one of the leading people of the organization, which has a lot of you sitting in, some of you are also officials in it. But he spoke those words on a holy night or the day before Christmas last year. He said: "The current authority, with incomplete legitimacy, creates a situation of intimidation of the pressures of state violence, lies, fraud and exclusion. "He who comes to power with deceit rules with lies, deceit and force." This government was appointed legally, legitimately, with the majority of votes in the National Assembly. I don't know why he'd come here with a fraud. But this is not enough for this official, as he goes on to say: "The presidents of veteran associations are fucking Gorenak and the violent Colonel are threatened with punishment and state repression. Dear friends, comrades and comrades, the beast that crawled through Europe and our places is here again. They crawl around our homes, our country and Europe. By doing so, our ancestors showed us how such a beast and instruction should be followed. Death of fascism, freedom of the people." Mitja Klavor, Secretary General of the Union of Fighters. Here you sit many who are members of this organization, some also officials, but I have not heard that any of these more than powerful rhetorics would distance themselves. Someone among you, also a member of this organization earlier said that today is an anniversary of Fran Milkin Jezek. In these days there is also the fourth anniversary of the discovery of the Hude Cave, where these ancestors of Mr Klavora showed how to deal with this so-called beast. That's a strong rhetoric. Given that you are not responding, I believe that you agree with it, and this is what is a key problem in this country in addition to the economic crisis; double criteria and rhetoric that were not used even at the time Slovenia fought for independence and attacked us with tanks. Not even against these people in Slovenia 20 years ago did he use such words, even though they were shooting at us. Here this applies to its own government, to the citizens of this country, to people who have legitimate and legal responsibility at this time. Now, we have also listened to the long moralization of the President of the Civil Charter, the former President of Parliament, who said in this Treaty: "We are politicians for serving the people."And then there's a lot like it from this set. So I ask the President of the Civil Code when he will return the unlawful compensation he received at the end of his term of office. With such high moral criteria, it has still not returned 340,000 euros – we are still calculating. At the end of the 2008 term, I was called by the President of the Macedonian Government and said that we had someone to help reform their state administration. I advised him, Mr. Virant. I said that, as far as I know, he's on a post-retirement basis, that he has time and is also paid – ask him if he wants to help. And they did, but they also paid for it. He had a well-paid job and not the only one. At the same time, he drew a reward from the National Assembly, and now he is moralizing what is right and what is wrong. We've really come a long way! Then I'd read something else that's very up to date today. On July 17, 2012, the Maribor evening announced the following news: "The Ambassador Borut Ambrožič copied a large part of a foreign diploma in his Master's degree in 2008 and nowhere did he indicate the source. There are identical sentences and even paragraphs of the text of the diploma of Clementine Jezeršek." On the same day that he published this news, the then President of the National Assembly, Mr Virant, stood up in front of the cameras and said, "If Ambrožič was transcribing, he must resign." In the opinion of the President of the National Assembly, Gregor Virant, Member of Positive Slovenia, Borut Ambrožič, should resign if they really hold that he has prescribed a master's job without stating the source. Such a course of action against Virant's conviction is worthwhile. But look, it's quiet today. Yesterday, a number of websites and media reported that, as with Mr Ambrožič, numerous sentences and paragraphs in the Master's Order for the Prime Minister of the Government were copied directly without mentioning the source from the acts of the Public Economics Office of Brdo. Even the slopes haven't changed. It says, "We increased or reduced the price of food last year." But Mr. Virant is quiet. He didn't ask anyone to step down. We've been listening to one-hour moralization about everything, but it wasn't the only case. It was enough for a Member to stumble on the stairs and Mr Virant had already called him to resign. And today it's quiet. With such high moral criteria and a public invitation a few hours ago, let anyone, if he knows, tell him where he or the National Gazette acted differently than he spoke or used double criteria. Well, those are double criteria. Then we heard from Mr Virant how the largest government party was unsettled. I remember one of the first meetings or a record of one of the first coalition meetings, where the Secretary-General of the National Gazette participated – I think Mr Jenko is writing. His performance began as follows: "We want control and people in Telekom, we don't care so much about the rest." And he proposed himself for some function in this state-owned company. This was not the only meeting, but I can list all the constant appetites of a party that has several members of the National Assembly and which accuses others of political recruitment. A lot of this political recruitment has prevented exactly SDS and personally. Not to mention to you who the Civil Code has all proposed and now to be moralized on this side. Then he was a very interesting performance by one of the Social Democrats' deputies, three times vehemently repeating that these governments are not interested in the welfare of the people. This government, in addition to everything else mentioned above, visited 7 Slovenian regions in one year of the mandate, where it had to deal with a number of problems; however, it visited 7 Slovenian regions in order from the least developed regions. 7 Slovenian regions in one year. The government led by the Social Democrats visited two and a half regions in three years. That's all they've done, or you've done it. On these visits to the regions, we have solved hundreds of specific problems of people or problems directly affecting the well-being of people – those ministers who are here with me or who have been in the government can directly confirm this – and try to change relations when it comes to the constitutional right of citizens and citizens of this country to equal well-being, to equal starting points of opportunity. In 2011, when the Government was led by the Social Democrats, the so-called social party, more than 60% of all state aid went to Ljubljana. That is why today the President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jankovic, can say that Ljubljana is developing and the country is going back. Ljubljana devoted more than 60 % of all state aid to Ljubljana’s social government or to the central Ljubljana region in 2011 at 130% of the European average by standard. So much for caring for people's well-being. As far as prosperity is concerned, it is also very interesting to analyse what has been said so far. What did the new coalition say about the welfare of the people? What will be the salary in this mandate you want to start today, the pension? Will you raise the public sector's wages? In a way, it was foretold. Will you put additional pressure on the economy in this regard? What's going to happen to the pension? In connection with the rise in wage levels in the public sector, a balance has been announced – does anyone know what this means, what will have an impact on the level of pensions, especially those of the lowest, and on the wages of people in the economy? This is directly related. People's wealth isn't something they cut out of paper. You need to finance, you need to create these funds, and if you spend too much on public spending, then you know where it's coming from. It has been said that more will have to be done on the income side, which is to raise taxes. Which one? No response in all these hours. I think that we have heard 16 times in the past performances of the Members and Members of this newly formed coalition that you do not agree with the concept of this government, three of which you have said to the neoliberal concepts of this government. This government had no neoliberal concept, it had an anti-crisis concept where we combined all the measures that we thought were necessary and there was no contradiction between growth and savings. The motto of this concept was that the best social policy was creating new jobs and all the measures that went towards decommissioning the economy, improving the environment for new investments, had this objective. But it's true that these things can't show up overnight at the same time as the fall stops, and we didn't promise that. But well, it is perfectly legitimate that someone says they disagree with some concept, so we also have parliamentary democracy that they can compete equally with different concepts, both in Parliament and in elections, but the basic condition for this competition is that we know them. So, from this place, my public question to those who have formed a new coalition, what is the concept of this coalition? What are the key points of this concept? By establishing the Ministry of Culture and Civil Society and the Prosecutor's Office, you can pass it on as a judicial ministry – excuse me, do not wave. So, what's the concept that's an alternative to someone you don't support? I think it's four hours and four minutes before the end of this session enough to present this concept. One year ago, when I was running for President of the Government, I made a very concrete presentation of the concept, as well as in 2004, and also in all other presentations and presentations by candidates for the Prime Minister of the Government so far, this alternative concept was presented. But that didn't happen today. Today, this has not happened – we have four hours left, of which the vast majority of the representatives of this new coalition. Introducing this concept, and we'll let ourselves be positively surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor, 30 seconds. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. There's really not much time left, but still. Most likely the newly elected new first term would like all the good and many wise decisions now in the coalition negotiations. But time has driven me away to say more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would like to say a few sentences about this item on the agenda. First of all, that we have not said that this government has done badly, that its actions have been unacceptable, although it has to be said that some things have not been in place and perhaps – in particular, I will remind you of the ZUJF – may otherwise be more friendly for all citizens. I'm thinking about fighters here, and so on, we've had enough of this. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'm sorry that's the problem. Let me get on with it. I am sorry today, Mr Janez Janša, that we have to deal with this matter and I am truly sorry that you have not accepted the responsibility for the facts identified by the Commission for the prevention of corruption and that you have not taken the measures that would have been taken if you had recognised that these problems were necessary and that in such a case responsibility should be taken and withdrawn. We heard today, one of the discussers said it was Slovenia. We all know that it is Slovenia — that's why we are here — and we are all doing our best and we want our country to have a government that will make the effort to get out of the crisis that we are in. If what the debater said is true – that the situation in Slovenia is such that credit ratings fall due to these conditions – then I think we should take action. Now, of course, I ask whether it is not right for the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, to say that you are not the first to assess that action must be taken immediately. How should we act in this case, I have already said. Responsibility and resignation should be taken to ensure that matters are resolved and that normal work is done. Following the exit of the coalition partners, the government dropped the rating and agreed to 15%. So only 15% of Slovenian citizens trust this government. And that's the problem. We have to admit that's the problem. And if I now touch constructive mistrust, which is, of course, the only possible solution to the crisis at this time. I must say that I am also joining all those who are today colleagues of mags. Alenki Bratušek congratulated her on her courage to run for president of the government in these difficult times. By her conduct, she proved that she hoped and could. Today's presentation of the new government's programming designs, which will be based on the goals you have set yourself, respected Mrs Bratušek – normalisation of the situation in which we are, dialogue and profession – convinced me that you have carefully considered your decision and found that we can and can do it together. Congratulations! Congratulations on your courage. I wish you a truly happy hand in running the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word "magic." Majda Potrat asked the President of the Government, Mr Ivan Janez Janša, to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u132	Thanks again for saying that. I apologize for having had to repeat one thing over and over again in the last few weeks. With these different positions coming from the same parliamentary group, says DeSUS, it is probably becoming clear to everyone that it is very difficult to lead a coalition in which five parties are not yet in the same position in one parliamentary group. Now, the Member State was talking about having to step down – this was also the idea of some other parties – and that this would lead to early elections. A fellow member from the same parliamentary group who had previously discussed how there was no time for early elections, what a disaster this would be for the country and so on. Perhaps in smaller groups, where fewer of you are, things would be aligned. The resignation of the Prime Minister is not just the resignation of the Prime Minister because someone else is coming. This is the resignation of the entire government and the whole procedure needs to be carried out. If you want to start early elections with this, then it is a procedure like you could have followed in 2011 when the Borut Pahor government fell. It took four and a half months before the new government swore. Those four months and a half empty running today, and we'll do it in the future, we'll pay dearly. This government, regardless of the problems you were talking about, and some are real, with such a state in the coalition, has done all the things that needed to be done. Even at a time when the coalition was supposed to fall apart, as you said, the government visited the 2nd region on all other matters and we successfully completed the negotiations on European funds, which is what we have heard to be the goal of this new government. Nothing is left behind, and neither has the interest on our bonds increased so dramatically at this time. With great efforts, despite great difficulties, we have managed to maintain a stable state that has not upset the euro system or financial markets to the extent that the damage is irreparable. If you vote today as a new candidate, you can form a new government within two weeks and the new government will take things forward and there will be no four-month break in this story. What will be the steps and successes and moves, given what has been announced, is another issue, but at least from a formal point of view there will be no reason for any great panic. This will happen if the measures are wrong, not because there will be no one who can take them. Please understand these things. As for these expectations and support to the Government and so on – support to the Government, you can check it for yourself, today it is no larger or smaller than it was in November or December last year, when DeSUS was still a very strong member of this coalition. There is nothing different, it has been low since the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, and this is not a lonely case in Europe in countries struggling with the crisis. This period since January, when the political crisis began, has not changed this significantly, and also the entry or exit of DeSUS into which coalition does not change this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor. You have 8 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u134	If the Prime Minister reads in the constitution that the government has the highest position in the country, it is no wonder, then, if it assigns MEPs to the Social Democrats, that one in the debate spoke three times about the welfare of the people. No one has used human welfare syntagma, especially three times.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Mr Ivan Janez Janša, has the floor to conclude now. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u136	After what's been heard today and after everything that's been going on – now I see that the MP, who previously misquoted the Prime Minister, is a party, so I would have answered her first. I didn't say government was the highest institution after the constitution. I said that the most place in the constitution is dedicated to the government as a state institution and to the National Assembly and so on. The institution that you say no one wants to respect is not mentioned in this constitution at all. In view of the developments in recent weeks, all these forecasts, today's debate without the presented concept, there is probably no longer any doubt that the President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Zoran Jankovic, Gregor Golobič and Milan Kučan, who, with the help of Karl Erjavac and Gregor Virant, will form a future government to enable gentlemen to include experts in this government who will successfully prevent the identification of responsibility for the robbery of the century from the Slovenian banks. Even the names of these experts could be very likely to be predicted. At the same time, these experts will re-establish broken channels in the last year, through which money will be reflowed from the state budget and from state-owned enterprises to the capital, political and media networks of the para-state. People who will pay for it, workers, pensioners and everyone else, will serve daily virtual reality, some non-existent world as we could monitor it in 2009, 2010 and 2011, where a billion-dollar bank hole does not exist, of course, because of this there is no responsibility for it. In this virtual world, however, it is full of internal enemies, mainly from the SDS and probably from the church, and, if necessary, Members who abuse their position, copy diplomas, master's degrees or exams, of course, with the exception of Mrs Bratušek, Gregor Virant and Milan M. Szwikl, who can do so and who are supposed to steal the country in this virtual world. They're supposed to steal the country, not those who stole billions of euros from Slovenian banks. In recent weeks, we have heard many times that it is impossible to reach early elections because this government does not want to resign. If I had stepped down, there would have been early elections as if it were an automatic option. All those of you who have been doing this for the past two months will now be able to do so. What you've asked others to do, you'll be able to do it now. You will form a government, you will call yourself to resign, you will resign, and there will be early elections. Your wish can be fulfilled immediately, and we will see if it happens in the real world or in the virtual world. In all these performances today, none of the newly formed coalition has actually touched the country's biggest economic problem. This is the situation in our banking system. Without the recovery of this situation, the Slovenian economy cannot function normally, without which the public sector cannot function normally, because there will be no money to finance, nor is it possible to maintain at least about the same human well-being as they do today. But not a word about it. We have heard of everything possible, and not a word of the key problem that this country has and that the future government will have to solve. There is no such problem. With what we've heard today, we've already crossed into this virtual world, and that's very eloquent. Despite the fact that we may even now hear a few concepts that should be an alternative to what this government has done last year, I would like to ask for another answer to one of the key questions. At the start of the candidate's opening act, we have heard that Slovenia will not follow the Greek script. In this regard, I would like to hear whether the scenario that has led Greece to disaster is meant, or whether it is a scenario that is taking place in Greece today when it tries to get rid of the disaster. Which way will Slovenia not go? And second, what would be good to hear a very specific answer is whether the Government, which is being asked to guarantee that in its mandate – we have heard many different dates, this newly formed coalition obviously is not harmonised. We have heard that we are to work until the end of the mandate of the National Assembly, then we have heard the presidents of some parties will hold early elections on 16 June this year. Then we heard the president of another party saying that the elections would be this spring or autumn or at the latest the following spring. Therefore, given that it is not possible to ask the question concretely in time, given these different timelines for the duration of the project and the company you are setting, I ask whether the candidate for a mandate holder can guarantee that the Government which will design it will not ask for foreign financial assistance from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. She has a word, if she wants, a candidate for the new President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The political crisis in Slovenia did not trigger a positive Slovenia. Mr. Janez Janša, today we will vote on a constructive mistrust due to the disintegration of your government. That's why we've been sitting here all day. Untrust in your government is below 15%. I'm not going to remind you of what you said when it happened to one another's government, but obviously it's one thing and the other is something. I'm going to touch very briefly on the readings that I was expected to hear from my colleagues in the SDS today. All that is said about us is pure gold, and all that is said and written about you is a lie. That's your view. I'll start with the state budget. Yes, for six years I have been the Director of the Budget Directorate, Mr Janša, also in your first government with Minister Bajuk, who assessed me as a state and public servant with an excellent evaluation. And if, according to your words, I am responsible for the great deficit that has arisen in the last three years, then I suppose I am also responsible for the great successes that you have put in your mouth during the term of your first government. But once again, no civil servant is responsible for the decisions taken by the government, and then you, your respectable colleagues, take them here in the National Assembly, and you can't put that responsibility on anyone. But let me remind you here that, despite your assessment of a very good budget, this one is so perplexed that it will be necessary to prepare another immediately. If the government manages to make a deficit of €250 million in one month, it can also mean two billion and a half per year. So where is this one billion of your dreams in the approved budget? Only for the real situation will things have to be prepared. Yes, I have been a member of the Supervisory Board of New Credit Bank Maribor since mid-2009. Unfortunately, the bank hasn't served the economy well since then. However, I have already said several times that I feel that the Supervisory Board has acted more than excellently because it is one of the members of this Supervisory Board and is also a member of your party, today the Executive Director of this Bank. In the supervisory world, we made a large majority of decisions unanimously. If it applies to one, then it should apply to the other. Once again, I have no objection to the fact that Mr, which I will not mention today, is the Executive Director of the New Credit Bank Maribor, but should be subject to the criteria for all. The Housing Fund and the Public Economics Office of Brdo – I think it is a shame to say this because I have already said more, but there is no criminal complaint, Mr Tanko, as you mentioned in your presentation of the parliamentary positions. That has to be clear. Let me finally touch another one, and you mentioned my master's work. If plagiarism is that you're writing something that you're actively involved in finding and designing a solution and preparing government materials, then I don't know where we are. I absolutely agree — and I wanted to invite the university to check it out — to make it all over. As I've heard, they're already checking in, and I've got a full conscience about it. From the anonymous factory comes a variety of structures every day – not just for me, but for everyone who steps on the SDS. Today it's me, yesterday it's KPK, and tomorrow it might be one of you. Such a policy kills the spirit in Slovenia, but this is your way. Mine and ours will be very different. Our first task will be to bring Slovenia safely to the elections. Once again, I stress that anyone seeking personal benefits or short - term prestige in this story has nothing to look for in this story. We will prove that we can, and this through dialogue, optimism and integration. My firm aim is to achieve three goals that I have already mentioned: normalisation, dialogue and profession. As I have already said in my introduction, because it seems important to me, I will stress once again, my motto will be "they are" – codecision, participation, coexistence, solidarity, fellow citizens. It will be necessary to listen and hear, seek and find compromises. I know it's gonna be hard, but I'm sure we can do it together and we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Today I took my time and listened to the debate, both on the one hand and on the other. I must say that I expected a serious discussion on what Mr Janša said. What we will get as a challenge, on the other hand, if this programme is satisfactory and 100 and one question to the new mandate-holder, how can any other thing be done? Of course, there were expectations that we would come to some serious discussion, naive, but we came to the conclusion that in some way it had become some strange position that I had already mentioned yesterday at the College of the President of the National Assembly that this constructive confidence in the National Assembly was the first test of how it would run. Yes, it is – there was already one constructive non-trust, but in a different way, with another Rules of Procedure and with other rules. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that the President of the Government in this constructive non-disclosure has the right to clarify the views, what is evident to him and, in some way, to call this government back. And it came to a point when I listened to half the discussion more about what the problems of the President of the Government with the anti-corruption commission were, instead of what the Government's defence is, that it is justified to lead and carry out the work ahead and complete it in its mandate. This has nothing to do with what she has found only within the government — coalition partners who have decided to simply leave the government. However, the President of the Government has mentioned some things today, and I must say that, Mr Janez Janša, until I came to the National Assembly, I have only watched from afar as Prime Minister of the Government in another mandate, when we participated in the coordination of the Municipality of Ljubljana and the State, how certain things could be arranged together. I have to say that the negotiations were going very well, only one small detail was not completed – there was simply no signed agreement at the end. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. With this, I just want to say that I had a relatively good opinion, especially from the point of view of the negotiator, of a capable policy to master my business in the direction that he drew and wants to carry it out, and everything else was of secondary importance. But today I have learned one thing, and when I say it today, I've been talking about one year since I've been in the National Assembly. He is a master of words — how to turn them and stick them to someone else, but he actually said them himself. This is this skill you've been getting through all these years, and I'm going to tell you a very specific case that you've all had together today, in the National Assembly. Mr President Janez Janša said: "Now I will read you something that one of the leading people of the organization, which has many of you, has said to you, some of you are also officials in it." But he spoke his words on the holy day before Christmas last year. I'm reading a magnetogram so there won't be a misunderstanding. He said: "The current authority, with incomplete legitimacy, creates a situation of intimidation, pressure, state violence, lies, fraud and exclusion. "He who comes to power with deceit rules with lies, deceit and force." And then he adds, "This government has been named legally, legitimately, with most of the votes in this National Assembly. I don't know why he'd come with a con to power." Is there anything special about this text? Nothing. Nothing, actually. But if we look at the text that Mr. Janez Janša said on Saturday, 9. 5. 2009, "Jansha has been given another mandate in Congress in the wake of resolutions and predictions of new paradigms", and we will see that what is evident to someone else is his words. In fact, he said to someone else, "Whoever wins with the help of deception, he also rules in the same way." That was reported to Pahori. What am I trying to say? I keep listening to the same things, Mr. President of the Government. I'm listening to the way you craftyly turn your words around. If I go in line, it was said again today around the golden fiscal rule – I have already heard hundreds of times that in Positive Slovenia they did not support the golden fiscal rule, even though they gave their word and so on and so forth in the Villa Podružnik, as we all know more or less. I attended one of these consultations — not at Villa Podróžnik, the second time at Villa Podróžnik — where that word was going, and at that time there was really an agreement on whether we would support it if we got the projection. Sorry, instead of the projection we got one sheet of paper where there was one table and on this table was projection A and projection B. So what happens if the golden fiscal rule is not adopted and what if it is, and in the end they were exactly the same numbers. This was no projection and this was one of the main reasons why the Golden Rule was not supported by Positive Slovenia. But over and over again, it's the same thing that we don't keep our word. The next page that was said today. I apologize, Mr Janez Janša, you have mentioned what the candidate has said about human resources moves and solutions. She did say that, but she didn't say that she was giving you the full mandate - not at all! It is not disputed when you say that it is true that when you came to power and the government of Pahor ended — if you mentioned such a thing, it would have been a defeat. And they didn't even manage to do it. That's the problem. They haven't hired anything in the last 100 days and you haven't had anything to change. But you changed everything that wasn't after your year and you just thought it was necessary to replace it. Mr Janez Janša, you mentioned that certain suits, first and second, always change – these are your words. What is more important to me is that Mrs Alenka Bratušek stressed that what was happening at the time of the collapse of this government when coalition partners were leaving – that she urged them to withdraw. The next thing that seems very important to me is that someone is always experiencing trauma with the word Kučan, Jankovic and Golobič. I'm sorry, but you put them on and on and on and on and on and on and you call them into political life. Every time you emphasize them, you honor them as moderators and creators of everything in this country. I'm sorry, no one makes me out of these three. What matters to me is that this is some kind of pressure, a constant pressure on wanting to hide behind other people. Let us speak out loud once about who is responsible — that is all that matters, nothing else. If not, then at least keep it down. What is still important to me is, Mr Janez Janša, and it surprised me tremendously — at least because of some political culture and dignity that I believe you have. You have it because you've already proved it several times. If you are the last day, or two days ago – I don't know when – on Monday, you stated that Mr. Žerjav is the worst minister in 20 years of history, one question to me is: how on earth did you suffer with the worst minister in 20 years of Slovenia? How could you suffer with him? Did you ever tell him and tell him what to fix, what to change, or was it just in a fit of anger and some bad moment when you said it? That's why I'm essentially asking you to show this gentlemanly attitude of yours and just apologize to him. [[advertising from the hall]] There's always a problem in concepts, though. What is essential to me is that today there is a constructive non-trust with the creation of a new candidate, and this is the most important question for me. I must say that this moment, today, in this country, the government of Janez Janša is a minor matter, a foreign matter because it is really gone. I hope that the vote will also achieve this once and that today we will deprive this government of its full powers of action and that it will only be able to carry out ongoing operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. We have three hours and 26 minutes left. Anybody else want some? I see a wish. So, I'm opening an application for a debate, and the application is under way. Mr President of the Government, of course, we will also take you into account. 20 panellists have been reported, 5 minutes each available, the first has the word Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, here before us is some outline of a coalition terrified of early elections and this group, this coalition is formed around a core, a joint core called the public institute of Brdo. Both the candidate for the mandate holder and some of her supporters have relatively serious problems with this public institution, Brdo. They have benefited from very favourable services, and the candidate for a mandate-holder has made this project even a master's job, which, if we believe in the media, is plagiarism. But in doing so, one fact emerges; in Positive Slovenia, the same problem within the house is not consistent, they do not act the same. When this suspicion of plagiarism appeared with Mr Ambrožić in the autumn of last year, they wanted to force Mr Ambrožić to resign, and in the end, the gentleman had to leave the party and become an independent Member. When we deal with the same sum of plagiarism these days, this same parliamentary group, the same party proposes a person with the same problem, with the same problem even for the Government's mandate. What is a problem is that the former President of the National Assembly, who is also involved in this public institute of Brdo, will not say a word about it, no moral, no ethical judgment. What's worse, he's not even in the hall because he wants to avoid this embarrassment. The other thing that I think is the problem is that the candidate lady doesn't know the certain things she's talking about. Procedures for the European perspective for the following financial periods were completed in early February. And the candidate is talking about how, when they form the government, they will start negotiating procedures for the next perspective. In short, he's talking about a thing that's been arranged that's been solved. The reform of the labour market is probably a similar project. Mr Vizjak concluded the project practically and one of the key reform measures that the new government is supposed to bring – at least this is how I saw some of the public presentations of the candidate in the media on TV Slo 3 – that this is one of the key measures. Interesting! The things that have been completed are a key development measure of this government. In fact, it also bothers me that there has been a lot of talk in this part about improving dialogue. It is this government, the current Janša government, which has given the dialogue within the political space with the economic social partners the place that goes to it again. City as in the Government 2004-2008. In the meantime, there has been a story that has been completely carried out with this political and social dialogue. In a way, it excluded everything from the dialogue and therefore all the reform processes undertaken by the then government fell. Here we can learn that the most difficult nuts that have to be crushed in this short period are under the roof in this quarter of the term. A pension reform has been adopted by consensus in the National Assembly, not because someone would agree, but because social dialogue has been brought about in such a way that an appropriate consensus has been drawn up. Similarly, labour market reform is taking place. We were also quite acceptable in adopting the budget that there was sufficient support. The budget was not supported by the opposition because the opposition wanted it that way, but because we have taken certain initiatives and so on. However, I am concerned that the fight against corruption has been halted, but I am concerned that I do not know how to combat corruption by those who have been in the bad business of banks. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Well, over the last few minutes there's been a lot of talk about the concept, and I'm going to look at this question of how I can see for myself what was talking about the concept of governance when Ivan Janša came into office. At the time, he said that pension reform was not necessary in order to wait until 2015. The pension reform has now been adopted as the highest achievement. However, it is forgotten that the pension reform, with the substantial assistance of the unions and the opposition at that time, was rejected at the referendum, that it also matured the knowledge that pension reform was necessary for most of the legislation to be prepared and adopted in the previous government. It is interesting, however, for women in particular, that this adopted pension reform is worse than the one rejected in the referendum. It has been said that the original sin is not a major legal innovation, which is called ZUJF – by one law to amend 39 laws – but that the original sin in the Law is to enforce rights from public funds. However, it must also be said that this law, which is based on a single entry point at the same time as the reorganisation of social work centres, was prepared in 2007. I want to say that in this country, however, it must be reckoned that the laws are prepared by experts, high government officials and that when one set of politicians leaves, not all officials leave with it. If they're doing well, it's useful for the country to make it happen. I want to say that these things are intertwined, transposed and that some conceptual solutions can be adopted earlier. Now, to something that has been declared a special offer here, the ugly Group of Social Democrats or the party has not accepted the offer – this is cooperation. The discussion was that they were coming to the consultation or to the coordination of laws in this mandate. I remember only two laws; the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act were the subject of coordination last summer. That the amendments have not been adopted, we have already told ourselves many times how it is with these other things too, I just want to say that if someone thinks that coordination is about coming to the parliamentary group, you give information about the law, and then you announce around that the parliamentary group supports this law – as is now the work of the secretary of state from the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, which explains that the draft law on the high school has the support of all the parliamentary groups, as well as the other two laws, and then the next three will be adopted. So if anyone understands this, then I'm not surprised he's very pleased with himself. However, this government has been very successful in creating emergency situations and in the special relationship between the Government and the National Assembly. On several occasions, the Social Democrats have pointed out the unacceptable practice of rapidly amending legislation, disregarding the resolution on normative activities, the lack of uncoordinated and uncoordinated publication of legislative proposals, the absence of public debates, the large number of urgent meetings of the National Assembly, the large number of urgent meetings of working bodies and extraordinary meetings. This is also the subject of the Ombudsman's comments, which points to reduced legal security in the country. This is one of the reasons why I claim that this government has done badly and that I will today support a constructive lack of confidence and impose on the new government to change patterns of behaviour and involve civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk only has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! Interestingly, yesterday the President of the US Central Bank in the Senate pointed out that the American economy still needs the measures of the Central Bank to promote growth. He said that excessive budget cuts could further slow economic recovery. It is also interesting that the President of the Bernanke Central Bank, in his speech, highlighted the high unemployment rate as a key problem of the American economy. We're very close to that word. We now have over 26 million unemployed people in Europe, in the Republic of Slovenia today exactly according to statistics 124 000 258 unemployed people. And we're about to get close to the largest number of unemployed in 1993, after the loss of Yugoslav markets, when there were more than 133 thousand people in the employment institutions. This was the absolute highest number in recent Slovenian history. I therefore believe that the first priority of this government is certainly the impetus for economic development and the creation of new jobs. This has to be our first priority, or we're about to get close to that catastrophic number 20 years ago. We need to do our utmost to ensure jobs in Slovenia, to ensure that companies are interested in preserving their production in Slovenia, not moving it to the Middle East, to the Far East to Turkey and so on, because this will bury our economy. For these processes, which have been in Western Europe, the European Union and Slovenia for several years now, have led to the loss of classical industry by entire regions, such as Britain and so on. That is why I think it is crucial for our further development to open new jobs and ensure economic development, and here the state and banks have a very important role to play. I hope the president of the new government will be mag. At least Alenki Bratushek did it in part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hochevar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u148	Thank you for your words, and I very much welcome you all! When I voted for you a year ago, Mr Janša, I said that the voice of the Member of Liberal Zagorje should be an incentive for you to be truly President of all, including those who have different beliefs or attitudes. But it is true that I have said something else: that my voice is not for you to sign your government. Today I will support a constructive distrust and this will give Mrs Alenka Bratušek the opportunity to propose a team and a program. In doing so, I repeat the same words as I did a year ago: my voice is not a blank signature to the incoming government. I wish Mrs Bratušek a happy hand in choosing my team and, above all, a prudent hand in choosing a finance minister. Today we have not heard much about concrete proposals and financial solutions in the presentation, so I will be very general myself. As a mother, I want our children to avoid paying high taxes and contributions to pay off debts and current pensions because our parents did not know how to give up unfettered debt and only to know what to save. That is why I will vote in the future for that government team that will continue its responsible fiscal policy and for the government team, for which Mr Šuštersič will finally assess that he can continue his work in it. If she's not here, she'll vote for the early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Well, when I look at the list of applicants, I could almost say that the command has fallen, that you will especially be able to use the biggest government party for the last few minutes to make some kind of diagnosis of this government. But this diagnosis now resembles some sort of autopsy report – the government is virtually gone. We have reached the extreme point when the conversion of the skipper team is more than necessary because Slovenia needs to restore dignity. As Albert Einstein said, "You can't expect different results unless you do something different." Everyone can judge for a few hours. We heard one side and the other. John Janša was able to make a long speech — repeatedly seen, repeatedly heard. It's practically everyone's fault, just not everyone's. I believe that when the cause stops, the consequence stops, so today is a crucial moment. On the other hand, in the opening speech of the candidate, or the new President of the Government, we have heard exceptional optimism, a positive approach and respect, if you wish, for taking responsibility. Because today I heard in the debate from someone on the left or from the right that it was irresponsible of the mandate holder to go after a confidential woman within a year — not true. This is an extremely responsible work, extremely responsible one, because it will check whether her government still enjoys confidence, whether her government has achieved the three basic objectives she has discussed; normalisation, dialogue and profession. That's responsible. We have an opportunity to introduce fundamental social optimism into our policy, into our country. That's what we've been missing for at least the last year of each step. The new government will do everything possible to restore constructive dialogue with the social partners, civil society and expertise – these were the words of the new candidate or I believe that the new President of the Government as well. I believe that she will be able to manage the political experanta, because the lost dialogue, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a lost confidence. Where there is no trust, there is no hope, even though they say that hope is the one that dies last. I won't look back, I believe it's time we all look up and forth together. Finally, the contradictions are treated against their contradictions, and I will therefore absolutely support the candidate for a new candidate for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Squirrel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! For a little while. The Slovenian People's Party is not the one that brought down this government, but it is true that today it does not support it. For the same reason that she left the government, the Slovenian People's Party did not want to talk to the Positive Slovenia about the composition of the new government, nor did it talk. The Slovenian People's Party believes that if we went to talk about the composition of the new government to be part of this new coalition, we would not just go from rain to rain, but to a larger surface. Although there is a majority in the National Assembly who thinks they can and will be able to do so, that is their legitimate right. In the Slovenian People's Party, we want early elections, and we believe that they would be in this situation – although the process was even longer and longer – the most prudent solution. That's it. As far as the concept is concerned, as previously said, I have not seen much of it since the new President of the Government. So the words "are", optimism, hope, courage are probably not enough to consolidate public finances, to raise the economy, to reduce unemployment, but more is needed. As a member of the Committee on Finance this year, when I was a Member, it was very clear to me how difficult it was to fill the state budget and how it could be emptied. At that time, I have not heard from the opposition the understandable and clear reasons and measures that would be simple for taxpayers to be cheap and beneficial to the country since then. So that my vote today as an untrustworthy person will be out of this action, because otherwise I cannot vote, and I think that this is one of the steps to early elections, although the majority in the National Assembly can decide one way or another, at the will of the majority. This is also their legitimate right. In the Slovenian People's Party, future Prime Minister of the Government, and above all, I wish her luck in finding candidates for the ministerial team, especially a great deal of wisdom, because it is not important to have a new coalition, the country of Slovenia is important. The country of Slovenia is, for our inhabitants, our citizens and the tax hike, and the reimbursement of public spending is unlikely to be beneficial in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! It is more than obvious that all the latest political developments are present due to the crisis that the so-called frozen elites have cooked, which are unaware of how many good and necessary reforms the Government has adopted and made this year, as well as the garmin that they have calculated this year, and this year it is different. Young people and rurals will be the biggest victims of the upcoming crisis, which will arise if this programme coalition is elected. Why? Because the government doesn't know what it's like in the country because it doesn't know what the problems are outside the center. Unfortunately, young people are increasingly questioning democracy by causing new crises, and unfortunately for the future, at least in this Slovenia. I hope that you are aware of what you are doing because it is wrong that the whole country is trapped by ambition and yearning to prevent a forensic investigation of bad loans. Young people want to know who stole our future. Finally, I would like to ask all Members of the National Assembly publicly what message will we send to young people, students, students, elementary school students when we elect a person to be a mandate-holder who is supposed to be a plagiarist after reporting a number of media outlets? It's a little hard to imagine. I appreciate and respect your courage. Do not spoil all the good work the government has done this year and ensure the even development of Slovenia, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Janez Vasle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, Madam President, President of the Government, other members of the government, colleagues, colleagues! I think it's one of my last or certainly my last performances, as today's situation shows. I am one of the few who came alive from retirement to this place, and I will also be one of the few who will return alive to retirement. Mrs. Žgajner Tavš would just say that she did the wrong autopsy because that autopsy report has the wrong diagnosis because no one ordered me to come forward now. But I notice that we are today dressed to a large extent more solemnly, in black. This is especially noticeable in classmates, but now I don't know if we're going to a ceremony or going to a funeral or one at a ceremony or one at a funeral. I will not support Mrs Bratusek, even though her performance was very beautiful and my speech was also. Without having anything personal against her, I'm just against the direction she represents. I always thought that the uncles from the background were some lari fari, but this year I had the opportunity and the honor of being an MP, and I realized that these backgrounds existed. That there are puppeteers in the background who move their puppets and step up a variety of pressures to cover up their delicacies in a timely manner, which would show little concern by enforcing the most disturbing laws on holding, bad banks and so on. This time, when I'm closer to monitoring political developments with us, I realize that our transition to democracy is only a visual one. Former and, of course, current officials quickly guessed who was really working for democracy and removed them in various ways. If we remember our Schwarzbart from Domžal, Mr Peterlet No, there is only Janša, who has been destroyed for twenty years and from Patrie to the anti-corruption commission and so on. Looks like this is the only distraction. In my opinion, with the current attack on the existing government on the entire front, they come to the surface of the so-called corks or our corkscrew stoppers, which, with such a severe wave, continue to float to the surface. The creation of new conditions in Parliament is once again a matter of mud milk. For example, Mr Luksic recently said that the President of Positive Slovenia must de facto and de jure leave all functions if SD is to participate. The conditions of the SD have changed slightly at this time and were otherwise met by different additional conditions. Such things, as is now the case, belong to the time before 1991, when so - called Ottoman postulates were used. You were successful if you lied if you cheated on someone, if you stole something, if you overpowered someone and something worse was going on. In 1992, the first election to the National Assembly indicated that I had been elected as an MP. And as ignorant new politicians without parliamentary practice, Members of the then SKD and SLS were invited by the Austrian People's Party to a seminar on how to do parliamentary work. On this occasion, we were welcomed by the Member of the Greens in the Austrian Parliament, the Croat Slovenian, Mr Karel Smole. He had already foreseen today's political situation in Slovenia, saying that he had seen things lost for us, because at the time of Mr Peterlet's visit to the government, the same man opened the door to him as he had when he visited Mr Shinigoi before our independence. In my opinion, the demolition of this government is a mistake. I am afraid that all the promised efforts made by the candidate lady will be directed at nothing or less to change. They were talking about recapitalisation. [[Incomprehensible]] the return of the tolar and even the dinar and it was heard that the public sector would need to be strengthened. At the time that I was still actively involved in this process, it was estimated that Slovenia would transfer a maximum of 45 000 public sectors. However, there is also a shadow of the candidate lady, but I will not repeat these masters. In her speech, I also saw some of Churchill's spirit. Well, here's the thing about normalization. This calls on voters – to go to elections, to take advantage of this opportunity and to influence potential candidates to point out that policy will also become [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Janez Vasle. As you discussed, we all wish you well for the future, however it may be in the future. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u158	Thank you. The candidate for the term of office ended with the words of the late Dr. Janez Drnovšk, whom I also respect. So let me start with his words, because today's events are prophetic. For at the end of the day he said, "You will surely kill yourselves for my inheritance." In fact, only the discussions that have now been, a little while ago, from the demolition coalition have been heard first by the mandate-holder, that the essence of her programme is greater public consumption, i.e. greater debt, and she has announced tax hikes. Then came the leader of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and said he was determined not to grow in debt and determined not to raise taxes. Let him understand who can. Obviously, the only goal of what is happening now is to get the government, the existing government, to withdraw the power as soon as possible so that it cannot be seen how successful it has been to fail to continue its work successfully. This is totally unconstitutional in view of the challenges ahead of Slovenia; given that we are dealing with Croatia; considering that we are dealing with economic recovery issues; considering that we are increasing financial discipline and everything else that was the basis of the stabilisation programme and the programme to revive the economy of the current coalition and the government. So in a way we can see that it's just that we can continue to plant fog, probably also about who was getting those loans in banks once, so that an institution could not be created that would make these things clear and present to everyone. It follows what this coalition is that comes from. The coalition that emerges today, if it elects a terminator, is a garmine coalition, because it only hears everywhere: chairs, calculating, calculating, calculating, calculating, calculating. This is no programme, and above all this is a disaster for Slovenia. This is why, in some ways, everything has been happening since the call for those early elections in 2011 – and especially what is happening in these days and today – one chronic argument for a story that I have advocated for more than a decade, for 15 years now, this is the story of a two-round majority electoral system. All of what we have here today, all of what you're predicting, all of these contradictions in the coalition, which continue to predict the internal blockade and inefficiency of this garuk garmin coalition, testify to the benefits of a two-way majority electoral system in which a candidate for a mandate should be known in advance, a well-known coalition programme, his personal program, and then we would go ahead with it to people and voters would elect people, not political parties. Primarily, people elected Members would be accountable to their constituents, now in a proportional electoral system they are primarily responsible to political parties. At that time, the relative electoral system was obviously so harmful to Slovenian development due to all these internal blockades and contradictions, which were constantly brought about by the voter fraud, and it was written into the constitution in one week. If you're serious about Slovenia, I urge you to stop overthrowing the government. Let's sit together and change the constitutional provision into a two-way majority electoral system, deal with it and then go before the electorate. I am confident, given the public opinion polls, that the vast majority of people today would be in favour of this and that they would accept this positively. However, I firmly believe that this would create the stable economic environment that Slovenia needs so bloodyly. Without that, Slovenia is not well written. Nothing helps if the government changes. This outgoing government, if you give it a positive non-trust today by electing a new mandate holder, leaves a single legacy, a perfectly negotiated starting point for the next programme in the European Union, for the next period. This has failed all countries — far from that — and this is one basis on which to build. But such internal contradictions, such blockades, these contradictions, which have been expressed only today, among you, say in advance that they will not be economically effective. Therefore, Slovenia would need serious reforms, it would need a two-way majority electoral system, it would need a stable economic environment that favours entrepreneurship, and thus development and prosperity for all. Everything I hope we want.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. Today, much has been said and heard, but I have not seen anything concrete about the government's programme to be run by the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Today, in the presentation, the candidate presented some general outline of the programme, and that did not satisfy me. I am interested in the specific objectives set by the new government, in particular the anti-crisis programme which Slovenia needs at the moment. I think we all agree that Slovenia is in a serious crisis. The current government, in which our client, New Slovenia, has also participated, has presented such a programme in the form of a publicly accessible written document, a coalition contract is said, and at any moment any citizen can verify whether the programme has been implemented and to what extent. I was able to support the current government on the basis of a programme that convinced me that we have heard nothing about it here today. Since I do not know the programme of the new government, I can only comment on the position of the Magi. Alenka Bratušek, who repeated it several times at the working bodies as well as at the meetings of the National Assembly. I am concerned about its rejection of the existing austerity measures taken by this government, which have already shown the first effects of reducing the public financial deficit by EUR 800,000. Mag. In its discussions, Alenka Bratušek stressed that the solutions to the public deficit are mainly at an increase in the revenue side or a concrete increase in the VAT rate, of course higher rates. Increasing the VAT rate will have an impact on the income and status of all residents, unfortunately. The arguments that the increased VAT rate will not encourage the basic food are very flawed. Because of the increase in costs – she claimed that it would not happen, but what consists only of the price of bread; transportation, electricity, distribution costs. The price of this food will increase significantly, and in this way the social weakest layers will actually be affected, most of which are intended to cover the basic cost of living, or they are barely able to raise enough funds for deposits and basic foods. I won't support such a program. I am sure that the proportion of people living below the poverty threshold in Slovenia is already worrying and will only increase in this way. Our goal, however, is to increase people's well-being and the direction of the existing government was the right one. It is true, however, that one year is not long enough for the Government to take the measures taken in some way or to show the real effects. I am sorry that this government has not had the opportunity to spend at least two years showing the concrete effects of the measures taken. And according to all that was said today, what is mag in his speech. Alenka Bratušek stressed that people do not want to plant flowers, but they do not want to scare, there will be no Greek script to develop the public sector, I ask myself – what is the economy? Obviously, we're not worried about anything, just the public sector. In the end, I would only add that we love not with words but with actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u162	Thank you. In 2006, the candidate ran on the list of Kranjska LDS, later on the list of Zares, today in Positive Slovenia, also on the list of independent candidates. Such a candidate does not give me a level of confidence, but rather adheres to the principle of "be where it is worth it" – very different from the words she said in the introduction, that whoever seeks short-term benefits and prestige has nothing to look for in her government. She was also a member, we have heard, of many supervisory boards, boards of directors, some of them have already been mentioned. I will only mention the public institute of Brdo because there are several things involved. When there was a member of the board of directors, the employees of her lot did crafts and gardening work, which reminds me of the story of Mrs Simone Dimic, the head of the cabinet of the previous Prime Minister – how the story ended, you know – where the workers said they were doing it for free, and it was not meant to put any invoices out. But when things got out, they wrote back some bills, two bills for about 430 thousand SITs. Gardening was written on this specification, each craftsman can be slightly more specific than in one line, and the bills for the end of November and then the garden is supposed to be regulated I don't know about the gardens, but the handling and loading of the land, laying grass, making the sock probably didn't work in November or in 2006 there was no such snow as this year, and it was possible to do so. [[...]] This cooperation is also reflected in her master's assignment, which today has been quite a bit of a talk. In her opening speech, she did not touch on this, although the Members and Members, her colleagues, would probably deserve some explanation about this – not just us, not just citizens and citizens – or she would explain enough to the new coalition partners, for example Mr Virant, who at the time said that Mr Ambrožić’s master’s job was to resign if the true arguments were that he had copied the master’s assignment without stating the source and that such an act was worth the condemnation. Mrs Bratušek said earlier that she had participated in these works, but in the works of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that I have, it says that the persons were responsible for the professional readiness and coordination of the works of Mirko Bandelj and Mag. The island of Purič and also in the strategic development plan is signed by Mr Purič, there is no Mrs Bratuškova anywhere. At the same time, I am surprised that journalists, who, while staying overnight and day with some other Members, were twenty-four hours a day in front of the door, asking for answers, are much more relenting here. No TV contribution, they are not interested in what is specifically the master's mandate of the candidate lady for such an important place as the President of the Government. The candidate predicted a budget rebalancing. You could say: already seen. They had already done so to the Pahors at that time and immediately increased the expenditure by 10%. This has continued, and we have come to the point where we are so in charge that we need not only to save more, but to give up on many things so that we can settle these debts once. Within this government, a number of measures have been taken, and colleagues have already listed them, perhaps just two more words that the President of the Government has clarified the data and interpretation of the members of the anti-corruption commission. A few of you have said that you do not care that this is not a matter of parliament, we will not listen to it. We've been hearing for a month and a half that the Prime Minister doesn't know and doesn't want to explain. We've been hearing for days that he doesn't know and doesn't want to explain. What now, do you want an explanation or don't you? Today he explained things, and if this is the reason for the government to fall after one year, we probably all want to know what is true and what is not true. He said that he had also provided the Commission with documents and explained everything, and that is why the vague terms in the report were not sufficiently explained, and so on, what he now explained or did not explain. My colleague Branisel said we should trust the institutions. Of course, if the procedures in the Patria case had not lasted for years and had ended if Klemenčice's anti-corruption commission, which did not notice Mr Virant's replacement, had not noticed that he had gone to Macedonia and had not asked him how he had paid for it. And she noticed a whole bunch of other things. She also did not notice many millions from Patrie, from weapons and so on, nor did Comrade Praprotnik [[sign for the end of the debate]] wrote in the Journal. So I won't support the candidate. But I would suggest to the new government if you could put it together to continue where things have ended and not undermine everything that has been built.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues! It is not customary for a candidate or candidate to obstruct the work of the National Assembly when presenting a constructive programme because it stems from a constructive non-trust. Because we really expected him to get through a constructive program. In Slovenia, this would be called a positive programme and is rightly expected by citizens too, but the positive Slovenia does not survive a positive programme, and apparently the candidate also succumbed to it. For our citizens to know – the Bratušek project, I call it, is a project to prevent any early elections. Therefore, there was nothing in her performance about the banking deadline as already mentioned. Not surprisingly, the candidate is a financial oligarchy candidate. There was no talk of whether anything would be done for the workers, for the farmers. And that doesn't surprise me either, because if you're an exhibitor of the financial oligarchy, it makes sense that you won't talk about people's masses. I'm surprised she didn't say anything about how much money she'd spend on universities, schools, science, filmmakers who survive and wait for the current minister to open a bag for them. At the very least, we would have promised — for a whole year we had listened to how the current government was guilty of these things, but nothing was said. Also about bad bank and Slovenian holding company practically nothing. But I realized that the new government was going to adopt him with its people — don’t say that this is a bad project, with its people, with the financial oligarchy. As I mentioned earlier, nothing about giving something to the culturers – even more, Mr Kavtičnik explained that the government does not abolish the ministry of Slovenians around the world and in the area of housing, but only joins them in the future ministry of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Candidate, according to this logic, the Ministry of Culture has never been abolished because it was only attached to the Ministry of Education. By this logic of yours, you speak in vain. None of this, as I said, was mentioned, but in spite of the desire for a covert speech, it vomited out of the candidate, as I mentioned on this segment, how she imagines to rule. How does Parliament picture itself? He says that the system of parliamentary democracy works well only if we at the same time open it for all those – be careful – who have left Parliament or have never entered it. But since it's about preventing elections, it's not meant to be an election. All those who have left Parliament should have access. This is indeed and LDS, and it is unwittingly said that this party will make new customers using the model of Positive Slovenia, which will mislead people where they will have Golobič, Kresal and other new opportunities and will have parliamentary parties from the background. Even more, he's talking about humiliated culturers. Perhaps he thinks of a gentleman who has taken 300,000 euros out of a state manger in recent years and who has been extremely grave and critical at the uprising. He is talking about others, and I am actually grateful to Mrs Alenka for her unwittingly expressing this in such a way that it is clear to all of us who is being seriously thought about and who will be behind this government, how it will work. But, colleague Alenka, last you will be the mercenary and the one who will miscarry in this imprudent game of strong men and strong centres in the background. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] No replicas, unfortunately no replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u166	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister, Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have been listening for several hours to how this operational government has now acted improperly or has failed. However, those who wanted to see the success of this government for a short time for a year could see them or hear them in the National Assembly. Those of you who wanted to see the success of this government. Here's just a summary, the results are much bigger. Many observations were made at the expense of how many evening hours we spent in the National Assembly. Yes, this government is capable of working more than any other government, and the coalition has also been prepared to use a wide variety of night hours to solve the difficult situation in which our country is located. I believe that because of the positive effects of the government's actions in the past period and the entire coalition, some of you have felt that it is the right moment for this government to be overthrown and that the moment when the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption came out, with which the President of the Government and the President of the most opposition party were suspected of corruption. When we speak of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, we are all hearing that this opinion has been issued by that Commission – and with all due respect for it – which has, on its own, violated the law by which it must act. The President of the Government has already said in his address that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has succeeded in submitting a report on the Commission's work on anti-corruption in 2011. We have only received this correct report recently, so that we have not yet obtained the completed conclusions of the Mandate-Election Commission, which have ordered this committee to comply with some of the conclusions of the Election Commission relating to 2010 and perhaps some of the years back, when someone else led the Commission. But obviously these conclusions will not be answered by the Anti-Corruption Commission, which means that it explicitly violates its law. Many of you in this hall have read to the government that it has not taken care of economic growth, that it has devoted too little money to education, to work, to education and so on. Of course, she couldn't have done anything else! For if we remember the beginning of this government's mandate, we know what a serious economic situation Slovenia was when this coalition took over the leadership of the country – not the power, but the leadership of the state, I stress. And if I may only remind you that the former government, Borut Pahor's government, was in fact creating a huge hole in the state budget. That is why it is not a problem for you, but for us and for our government, it was a problem that had to be solved and done to consolidate public finances. However, the Government's opposition started with a moment when it was clear that the referendum on the bad bank had failed or on the management of the Slovenian state holding company, where someone would have been exposed, how and why he received some loans under extremely favourable conditions, and the President of Positive Slovenia himself in the past boasted that he had only called and received favourable loans. This practice will obviously continue now. Given that I am running out of time, let me just say this; many of you have said today that we must not look back and return to the past, but respected and respected, without knowing the past, we cannot understand the present and even more difficult to plan the future. I wish the candidates much success, but I hope that you will succeed in forming the government and that some who will not go with you into the coalition will do so with a fig in their pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. The Prime Minister of the Government had earlier asked the candidate for Prime Minister for an answer, namely, what is the programme of the new government. Today we have heard so many hours of debate in this House, and I must say that I have not heard it. I would like to hear what moves the new government will make for the new jobs that are urgently needed, for the competitiveness of our economy, as well as for attracting foreign investors to Slovenia, which we urgently need. I think that the Prime Minister's conclusion is that the Minister of Economic Affairs was one of the worst because he did nothing and very little in this direction. We would probably also like to hear those today in front of TV screens in Slovenia, which are few, what is the program and whether we are promised shock therapy in the execution of the so-called European threesome. The President of the Government and the Finance Minister, unfortunately formerly, have promised that the troikas and shock therapy will not come out of the crisis according to the programme and in view of the reforms that this government has already adopted in the majority and which it has yet to accept. Madam candidate, do you guarantee that your government will not really ask for this help? I think the guarantee would mean a lot to those people who are looking at us now and listening, even if we have to go to the polls. Maybe you don't need this program at all. In view of today's debates by Mr Gregor Golobič and Katarina Hočevar, I strongly doubt that you will need a programme because I think that, if I am not mistaken, Katarina will say that she will only confirm the new government or ministers if Mr Šuštersič can participate. However, even if I did not understand correctly, your programme, which you have been implementing in the current government, is so different from that of Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia that without any conversion you are likely to be unable to participate in a joint government. So this government will probably not be formed soon, because otherwise today we would hear the exact programme and perhaps there would be something out of this programme. I think that the only reason to prevent this government from continuing to work is to prevent the implementation of the law on the Slovenian Holding and the bad banks. That's the only reason that this government's work is interrupted, but there's no program. If we look at public opinion research, as you all say or most say, we go to elections – I think it is the opposite of the number of members of Positive Slovenia and, on the other hand, SD and the National Gazette in terms of public opinion research. I don't think you want to vote that these are empty words. But if you want to rule, tell your program because people are not so naive that they will just land or nod some empty rumors and some quasi experts. But to the Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia – I will not forget Mr Kavticnik's statement when he said that a year ago the director was respected and now he is a shitty Member. Parliament also has very low support for people – I think worse than the Government. Do Not Apologize [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President! Dear Prime Minister, distinguished Minister, ministers, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished remaining present! We've got an 11-hour session to break something. In one year, a few more than a year of this Parliament's operation, we did not have a five-hour debate on how to create anything so that we could live. The fundamental question is what Slovenia will be able to do in the future, what we will live on. There's no answer, and of course there won't be. Today we are all in a series of headlamps, all important, all very smart, wise, we have solutions for everything, and yet Slovenia is bankrupt. Interesting! In a cultured world, there is an order of action, and in an uncultivated world, there is talk. And that talking is too much. We should focus on what we will do in Slovenia and what we will live on. The answer to this question, however, is a bit more difficult and about 10 Members, Mr Stepišnik, Mr Starman and so on, we regularly ask ourselves what we will do and what we will live from. The government of Janez Janša is supposed to sow fear. Not Janez Janša, not Zoran Jankovic, not Borut Pahor, do not sow fear. People are afraid for two reasons: because they have no work and because we do not know what to do in Slovenia and because they no longer know what to live on. Let's go back. Raising or not raising your voice when things are going wrong is not acceptable, so you need to tell someone what seems wrong. In Finance, Petra Sovdat wrote the following. I quote: "The gravediggers of common sense. It's just the easiest thing to do is to snore around the state court. Isn't that right, Gregor Virant? To a new bitter end." When I said a year ago that taking over the government was a punishment, because in acute economic circumstances it was a very difficult and difficult task, no one heard. That's confirmed today. Today I predict – and I hope that it will not happen, but I am almost absolutely sure that it will happen – within one year we will totally bankrupt and get a European threesome. Why? You can't increase the welfare of the population by raising taxes, because you can't stand in a bucket and try to raise yourself. Secondly, the government, which has an ultra-seller in its coalition composition, cannot be successful. Gregor Virant has already announced that he will reissue this emerging government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u172	Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are investing in a constructive non-trust because the institute we set up, the anti-corruption commission, has done what we set it up for. It is said that she reviewed the functioning of the public function holders and said that they had done something that we have enacted. It may not be written in the constitution about what President Janez Janša said that this is not in the constitution, but it is in the laws and we must respect the laws. So far, we have had two options: Janez Janša could have come for a secret, and we have chosen a second option. We have put in a constructive mistrust because the government of Janez Janša of 90 Members has 30 more Members and Members. So it is not possible to work, and this is not the majority that we could normally work with in the National Assembly. That's why we had to do something, and we did it. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to maintain today's human and human dignity, to try to keep the face of all those who have and have so far worked as the Slovenian government and not to degrade anyone who dares to propose that he will do something for the good of our country. This is the essence of our message, ladies and gentlemen, and then the Members and Members may have a better reputation than we have had. What the new government is going to do, we're not really talking about it today. Today we are talking about constructive non-trust, we are talking about the fact that the government of John Janša in the National Assembly and among the people has no support. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, there is fear. Ivan Vogrin is right when he says fear reigns. Of course, the fear of losing jobs reigns because people do not know how to survive because mothers do not know how to build their own place and many others. However, we do not need to be harsh about this and be so unkind about it that we work hard with people. Some positive atmosphere would be right to bring us into this land and to talk about solutions. John Janša said he didn't hear anyone talk about saving the economy. At least two of us talked about it, at least two. Mr. Stephnik and I. We were talking about the need to save the banks. I don't really know about this – but I do know that we have to save the economy, that we have to help the economy, that companies can't work anymore, that they can't hold back. When we visited a large company in Celje, they said that if they do not receive aid, constructive aid, good assistance, they will have to go bankrupt because they simply do not stand the green interest of banks held by monthly loans and everything else they do. This is the task of the Slovenian government and this is our task to create an atmosphere that will enable us to maintain jobs. Above all, we do not speak ill of those with whom we have worked. We do not speak ill of people who are just like us, perhaps they were not fortunate enough to be in the right place at the right time. It's a very difficult situation. We can win, not the elections, and we can win the election to pull this train forward, but together this time. Mr Grims now proposes that we sit down and do it – too late. When we suggested what to do with Slovenian state holding company and bad banks – who listened to us? Maybe. But I certainly didn't hear it. Therefore, it would be right for us to tell the new government that it is necessary to hear, not just to listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Government team, colleagues and colleagues! As a number of us, you could discuss the personal, study and political paths and protagonists of the candidate for the mandate; her passengers, what they have done; all those who have stepped out of this government or coalition. But, above all, on the basis of today's speech by the candidate for a term of office, the work of this government, which apparently lasted only one year, I will try to show some facts why I personally believe that this debate today or constructive non-trust is completely pointless and even bad for the country. Today we have not actually heard almost any of the programmes in Mrs Bratušek's speeches. What little program there was was what this government was doing, even though it was leaving. But when I look back at one year of this government and compare it with the three years of failure of the previous government and with this today's non-programme, I see what has been done. We have received three packages for economic growth; in the first package we have received a huge amount to relieve economic operators, in the second package we have 16 laws and 75 measures to promote economic growth, in the third package 50 measures and 21 laws. Above all, they were here: pension, labour law and the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding and so-called bad bank. Of course, there have been many other laws, regulations and other measures, which, if not for a short period of time, will certainly show in the long term that these measures by the Government were intended for both Slovenian people and the Slovenian economy. Personally, I recall, at the beginning of the mandate, how hard we have worked to amend the Agricultural Lands Act, which was destroyed by the previous government, because we wanted to help Slovenian rural, small economy and young people not to flee the countryside with this amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act. We have also simplified spatial legislation, which in the past has mainly set huge bars for municipal councils and mayors so that they can adopt plans for the development of municipalities. When I looked at the government parties, I was only aware of how many calls were made; the financing of technological development projects, public calls for energy efficiency, a call for proposals for bank credits, subsidies, interest rates, a call for proposals to promote investment and so on, the promotion of investments in energy renovations owned by local communities, investment relief and could also be listed. But the positive effects of these laws, regulations, and other incentives were not discussed by the opposition, and the media house installed some sort of belt and tried to find some hair in the egg. Many of us do not even remember how we adopted, for example, a project of subsidised student and student tickets that cost transportation for students and students, or a related programme, the School Diet Act, which significantly increased the number of students, students who will later receive free or subsidised school meals. If any government had taken such measures within one year, it would probably have tried to put monuments on a number of ministers and the media would have been singing them for a long time and the ministers of that government were on the channel waiting for interpretations because they were only correcting the mistakes of the previous government. Maybe something about the adoption of pension and labour legislation. This government, together with the social partners, has regulated everything that the previous governments have failed. She agreed with the social partners and sought a solution with them. Let me get this straight. Today's presentation of the mandate holder was a pale, huge lumps and phrase and almost no programme, except for this government's programme, so I cannot support it, but as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia I want courage to solve the crisis and reduce the debt, but the ministerial team that appears in the media unfortunately does not predict this progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u175	Thank you, too. The President of the Government, Mr Ivan Janša, wanted the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Optimize slowly land. However, we were hoping to hear what an alternative programme, the concept of a new President of the Government. What is happening today is a constructive non-disclosure of the Constitution, which means that Parliament elects the new Prime Minister of the Government and the resolution of the previous is a consequence of this fact. So there is something new at the forefront that should be presented here with its concept and programme. But instead, we have heard the main criticism of the current government and within this criticism by the candidate candidate for a candidate, something that completely undermines some hope for the credible leadership of this very responsible company. In her performance, she mentioned twice something that should not have happened to her as the main positive feature. In the first performance, she said, for the first time: "The budget balance that will correct the most fatal mistakes of the austerity policy,......" – is said to have increased spending – "... and above all will show the real state of the public finances. To show it completely unrealistic today, the data shows that the budget deficit is due in the first month of 2013......" – said in January – "... it already amounted to €250 million." Finally, in her performance, she said that if the government manages to make a deficit of €250 million within one month, this could also amount to €2 billion per year. For someone who was the Director of the Budget Directorate, this is a statement that is impossible to buy. If someone said that on the street who just looked at the statistics, O.K., would explain it to him. But if the chief says so, the former head of the Directorate for Budget, who needs to know that interest is paid in the first month of the year, mostly agricultural subsidies, and that this is always the case and that it is not possible to count months, then it will be a very big problem. Of these €230 million in deficits, 130 million is in interest. Most of the rest are paid agricultural subsidies which are paid mainly once a year or paid from half last year to half this year. You can't just count it. If we fail to manage these basic budget issues, I don't know what else will be going on. As far as calls for early elections are concerned – the Slovenian Democratic Party offered early elections in December last year. We said it could be April or May, but no one took it seriously. These calls that appear today are completely empty. So if anyone else from the new coalition will speak, however, I would like to answer the following questions about the concept. How much will public spending increase as this has been announced? Will the new coalition raise VAT? How will it be addressed to the revenue side of the budget, as announced? What taxes are going to rise? Will we have to apply for international financial assistance during the new government's term of office? How will the situation in the banking system be resolved? Some said the bad bank had to stay, others said it had to be stopped. And last but not least, what's gonna happen to the golden fiscal rule? Slovenia has ratified the fiscal compact. Time's running out. You won't do that, and we'll pay the fine. Are we going to give up our European funds or what are we going to do? This cannot be solved by one article by Jozet Mencinger on the work he says: ignore the European Union. So, when will it be? When will we hear any of what we should hear today?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u177	Thank you. The next debater is Mr Jože Horvat. I'm sorry, Mr Ivan Pišek is on the list. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u178	Thank you, President. Today's debate, or the start or collapse of the government, has created the destabilisation of Slovenia not because of the economic situation, but because of the report of the anti-corruption commission. Although in the country of law you are considered innocent, as long as the lawyers and the doctor of law should know. [[...]] But that's not the point. The point of all of this is that it is necessary to produce the affairs that would throw John Janša. It's been going on for 20 years. Because the first affair, which was a Maribor weapon and when nothing could be proved or eventually proved that even John Janša was the one who discovered the matter, could find something else. And Depala came to the village, where they really managed to tear him down or get him out of the government. Then he proved that he had nothing to do with it. He was completely forgiven. Then it's Patricia's affair. For 10 years he was at peace because he was in the opposition and maybe he wasn't so dangerous until they came to the government and then the Patrio affair happened. However, in a normal country, this would be resolved quickly, dragging with us for several years and stretching until John Janša is likely to be in opposition again. In the meantime, since it has been shown that there will be nothing from this affair that undetected day are undetected undetected persons and I do not know what has not been discovered, they have been able to produce something new. And this is where the report of the anti-corruption commission happened. In addition to personal discredit, which has been subdued since noon, when someone comes after a family of politics that has absolutely nothing to do with its policies. The saddest of all is that this produced affair by one of the journalists was supported by other journalists and even rewarded with protection, although it is known that the same journalist has launched quite a few affairs for which the state firm will be financially responsible. So much for the anti-corruption commission report. Whoever looks at him will see that one is a farce. Any literate Slovenian can see that the property or such an area near Soča cannot be at the same price as it was written there. If anyone shows me this, I'll immediately create a loan and buy it. But if we ignore the fact that journalists have supported this and also some politicians on the left, because this is the meaning of their actions, I am interested in how the Civil Gazette and Mr Virant, who considers it in principle, could support this. Although he forgot about his lectures and his replacements, he forgot the compensation for the stench he got because his house was lying near the dump, although he did not live there, he forgot about the education of the Members of Parliament, which Mr Vogrin had been talking about. He also probably forgot about when he was familiar with the legal judgment of theirs or yours — whether it was December or it was possible before. I would like to know how he will now support this government and whether it will remain in principle, he will not fight against the potential plagiarisms of Alenka Bratušek, who has claimed to have participated in this task alone. According to the data I found, this data was produced in 2001, and you probably came to the Brdo Institute a few years later. This means that you could not be co-author of this and you were part of it because you were in the government, you copied from Mirko Bandlje and from Igor Purič, who was signed under the documents under Brdo. And Mr Mershol, your colleague, can tell you that even if you would quote your part, your contribution, you should mention the author, because the twice-published task must be published as a quote. I would like to say more about economic matters, about the Government's proposal in the economic field, which, of course, does not exist. Everything has focused on the criticism of the functioning of this government, or the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice. Your debate was only about half an hour, so I don't know how you and the new coalition partners are going to lead an economic policy, one way or another. Some advocate for the rehabilitation of the bank in this way, others in a different way, which is essential in Slovenia – in the end we will not come anywhere and we will [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u179	Thank you. Well, now really the next debater, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President, and from this place first congratulations on your election. I must say that at this point I have lost all hope to hear the concept, at least the basic outline of this new government's programme. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and it is logical to follow from all of this, as we have heard today, that the concept is not really necessary. Why? Because the project is alone and this is the overthrow of this government, it will unfortunately be successful today; in order to stop the implementation of what we have written in the Slovenian State Holding Act and not to introduce measures to stabilise the Slovenian banking system. Because what would we do if this government and this coalition continued this work? In fact, we'd cut through all those pipes where the money leaked to taxpayers. That's the problem! Not the taxpayers in their pockets, but in their pockets. I already told the board today that I was raised to thank you. First of all, I must thank my colleague Bevk, who, in this last hour and a half, has actually said the only few basic guidelines on the economic policy of this future government, if that ever happens. Then I have to thank this government team, which some opposition colleagues also acknowledge that it has made great efforts to stabilise public finances, and I will not list anything – anyone who is a literate who has the will to read it on the web portals. We have established and maintained a good dialogue with the social partners. This has been successful, not least this success has been reflected in the pension reform, adopted without a vote against. This one has been extremely tiring, is and will be extremely tiring. Last but not least, we have political unions in Slovenia; at least two are outstanding parliamentary policies leading these unions and I am talking about political unions. I am pleased that, for the next financial perspective, 2014-2020 we have negotiated an extremely good position that will be better for the sake of a billion euros and will be better in cohesion policy than it has shown in November – at that time, it has shown very poor that cohesion funds will almost halve. We have succeeded because we still have a reputation in Europe today. Slovenia has a reputation in Europe and I want it, and I want it not to be lost. Unfortunately, in this one year, we failed to change our minds, as the Austrians did when I listened to and read their financial minister's statement saying, "I am not happy that we have reduced our spending by EUR 26 billion by 2016, and I am glad that we have started to think differently." Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is not limited to a short time interval. The crisis is a state that lasts and lasts and will last for a long time. That's why we need a new social arrangement, a new social paradigm. Again, because it looks like I didn't get it right before. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished future Commissioner Alenka Bratušek, I ask you once again not to break the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders, so that you do not terminate the office, because if you join the Ministry of Culture, it is the same as you have abolished it. Because this is your vocabulary, when you told us that we had abolished the cultural ministry, and we didn't, we just put it together. Do not terminate, for God's sake, the Minister or Minister for Slovenians, in place and around the world. Comrade Alenka, you had a good boss, Dr. Andre Bajuk, you know he valued you, you know he was a great Slovenian. For his sake, don't do it for him. If you do, you will amputate one fifth of Slovenian national body, Slovenian living tissue. Let's do something, colleagues and colleagues, for the Slovenes! That's ours! This is ours. Let's at least try to defend it. I would argue that if we took better care of the Slovenian minority in Croatia all 20 years ago, we would be much easier today as regards the numbering of the borders between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. If you're gonna do this, then [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u181	Thank you. I also have Mrs. Alenka Bratusek on the list. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Today we are talking and deciding on a constructive untrustworthy, untrustworthy government of yours, Mr Janša, and not on the distrust of the government of Alenka Bratušek. When I listened to the debates and criticisms at my expense, I felt we had changed positions. And, ladies and gentlemen, you seem to have listened poorly to me, but you can read it in your magnetogram. I've listed several points of what needs to be done, but at the same time, I've told you that you will hear an accurate program when I represent a new government team. Today I can only introduce myself or ours, but I would like to present to you a common one, because if we go to the coalition, then we are partners and one party does not leave before we have an agreement and a discussion. That's the only reason. But you can read it again because I have too little time to tell you again what I've already said. Your economic programme last year has led us to a decline in economic activity of 2%, up to 60% of the gross domestic product of public debt, up to 125 000 unemployed and up to 250 million euros in deficit in one month, Mr Janša. I agree that it can't be counted linearly or taken by the end of the year, but if you did, you wouldn't be up to 2.5 billion, but you would be up to 3. And you might know that, too. Never in the history of Slovenia has any government in one month made one quarter of the projected deficit – this is a fact, Mr President, and this is the result of your economic programme, unfortunately. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you all for the constructive debate, but I promise you that the end of politics is division, contempt, insult and fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u183	Thank you. I note that we have exhausted the list of debaters and I am concluding the debate. We turn to the vote on the proposal of the Group of 27 Members and Members for the election of the Magi. Alenke Bratusek for the new president of the government. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be a secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. The assembly has already elected an electoral commission for the conduct of secret ballots under item 1 of the agenda, and I will also participate as chairman. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for the President of the Government will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 9.45 p.m. and will continue until 22 p.m. Members and Members of Parliament who will assist me in the vote, please meet after the end of the vote in room 217. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 22.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u184	We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the broken 2nd item, this is the proposal for the election of the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm publishing the outcome of the vote. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 27 February 2013. 89 ballots were distributed. 88 ballots were delivered. There were 0 ballots invalid, 88 votes valid. 55 members voted against. 33 members voted against. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u185	On the basis of the outcome of the vote, it was mag. Alenka Bratušek, by majority of the votes of all Members, was elected the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mag. I congratulate Alenki Bratušek on her election and wish her a successful job in managing the duties of President of the Government. Under Article 116 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government was voted not to trust. Mr Ivan Janez Janša, President of the Government, is thus relieved and, together with his ministers, he must carry out ongoing operations until the new government swears. I would also like to inform you that, on 25 and 26 February 2013, the President of the Government forwarded to the National Assembly the derogations made by the Ministers of Mr Tomaž Gantar from his post as Minister of Health, mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Franz Bogovic, acting as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment and Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, acting as Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was briefed by the National Assembly in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. By electing the Magi. Alenka Bratušek as the new President of the Government, the introduction of the National Assembly by the resignations of ministers became irrelevant. Please, Mag. Alenko Bratušek to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u186	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u187	He wants the Prime Minister of the Mag. Alenka Bratušek talk to the National Assembly? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u188	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! For the first time, I am standing before you as the President of the Slovenian Government with a mandate to form a new government. I thank you for your confidence. I understand your decision as a confirmation that we can take Slovenia together to the place we want and where we belong. How we get there will depend on all of us. There were many words here today, heavy and critical, words of mistrust. But also full of words of encouragement, optimism and hope that Slovenia will be different and better. I will remember the latter in particular, because I believe that Slovenia can only continue to lead with connection, optimism and hope for a better future. It's gonna be hard, but I have full confidence in our people who have proven in history to be able to step together when it's the hardest. And now, in our history, it's such a time again. My hand will be open to cooperation. That's what our people want. Please, let's listen to them, all of us. Our task is to create a situation in which citizens and citizens will once again start to gain confidence in democratic regulation and hope and expect to take part in future elections. Thanks again for trusting me. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-27-SDZ6-Izredna-28.ana.u189	President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek, thank you for her words. Allow me further notice to the National Assembly. Because she was an MP. Alenka Bratušek, elected Prime Minister of the Government, is no longer in a position of office. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly, which candidate will be in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members instead of Magi. Mr Alenka Bratušek served as a Member of Parliament. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Allow me to congratulate you personally, Madam President.
