ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the next Members and Members, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Polonca Komar, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jakob Preseknik and Mr Richard Braniselj, cannot attend today's meeting. I welcome everyone else here. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on scholarships under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Work of the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered a proposal for a law on scholarship submitted by more than 5,000 voters to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. Representatives of the proponents, Mitja Urbanc, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, with the Minister, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council. The Committee was given an opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service. It also made a number of specific comments to the individual article of the draft law on the basis of comments of a legal system nature. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Government, which does not support the bill and proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt it. In its opinion presented by the representative of the Council of State on the need for a new system of regulation of this area, the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons adopted a positive position at the meeting of the Committee. The Commission supported the initiative of the proposers to systematically regulate the area of scholarship in the sense of reopening the dialogue between all stakeholders, and it did not define the solutions proposed to the proposal due to warnings of technical and legal shortcomings and concerns about the content and feasibility of the proposed solutions. In line with the conclusions of the discussion, the Commission invited all interested parties to prepare and harmonise, on the basis of cooperation, the content of the new alternative proposal for the grant law as soon as possible. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities made a public presentation on the proposal for a law. In the introductory explanation, the representative said that during the public presentation of the opinions, the panellists gave views on the law on scholarships, which was tabled by more than 5,000 voters and the Student Organisation of Slovenia. They agreed with the Ministry on some of the shortcomings of the current regime and therefore hope for consensus and a joint proposal that will be more acceptable to all. The representative of the Government said that the Government had prepared its proposal for a law already in parliamentary procedure and therefore suggested that the proposal under consideration should not be adopted. At the same time, the Minister welcomed the efforts of the Student Organisation and the electorates and voters to address the issue, as a systemic approach to the scholarship policy in our country is actually needed. In her presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the explanation provided for in the individual article largely merely sums up the text of the article and, in some cases, even deviates from its contents. In the context of the introductory remarks, she also pointed out that, in view of internal coherence, the proposal for a law should be uniformly harmonised, as the legislative text presented is uneven, it uses a number of terms, which, of course, reduces the clarity, transparency and general understanding of legal standards. In its opinion, the Legal and Legal Service also made a number of specific comments to each article of the bill. In view of the above, the Committee, with 17 votes in favour and no "against" adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a grant law was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for further explaining the proposal for a decision. I give the floor to Mr Luka Špoljar, representative of the drafters of the law, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body. You have five minutes available, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u4	Nice greeting on my part, too! Thank you for your word. My name is Luka Špoljar and I come from the Student Organisation of Slovenia. On the basis of an analysis of the situation and also of the specific cases where students are addressing us, the student organisation has tabled a proposal for a law supporting more than 7,000 full-year citizens, whose signatures we have gathered in a good week. This gives our proposal further weight and an important message that this area needs to be regulated. At the same time, we believe that this gives added weight to our efforts and to our work. However, since the Student Organisation of Slovenia is more important to the content of the law than its formal regulation and is our primary desire to properly regulate the system of scholarship in the Republic of Slovenia, we have agreed to, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, prepare a hybrid law that will regulate the matter properly. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a bill that is also acceptable to the Student Organisation of Slovenia, summarizing most of the good solutions proposed by the SOS. These are scholarships for deficient professions, the maintenance of scholarships and, above all, the return of scholarships to underage students. Therefore, at this point or as has already been said, we agree with the competent parliamentary committee that the procedure for the adoption of our law at this meeting should be suspended or suspended, while further adopting a new law on scholarships to be submitted to the parliamentary procedure, and I ask you to put yourselves outside the framework of daily policy and vote in favour of good solutions for students and students. The aim of the Slovenian Student Organisation is to regulate the scholarship system in a comprehensive, effective, systematic and transparent manner. Emphasis on addressing this problem is also important due to the general social distress that has already emerged in recent years. Much is said only to say that several scholarships were awarded between 2010 and 2011, regardless of the fact that the censorship remained the same. Of course, the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds, which has taken away more than 10 000 underage students, has been adopted, so that only 125 new scholarships have been granted with the new year. It is also not surprising that there has been a specific decline in the student work sector, through which students and students have resolved their social situation and have often solved the financial problems of families as a whole. Thus, despite the improvement of the scholarship system, there is still some bitter taste due to the lack of resources, and this is certainly the first step towards solving the problem. We are pleased to see the willingness and understanding of the ministries in question that the area of scholarship in the Republic of Slovenia and the area of scholarship of the talented, I am talking about Zois' scholarships, as soon as possible, and we are looking forward to the announced beginning and inviting the working group to the department. It is also very commendable that we, together with all the competent ministries, will be able to prepare a scholarship policy and a rules on the award of Zois scholarships. At the same time, we call on the Ministry of State to ensure that the procedure for the adoption of the law on scholarships starts as soon as possible and that an important signal is also given to young people in the Republic of Slovenia. As we have repeatedly stressed, young people want to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. We are pleased to see that, in some way, the entire political sphere is anchored in its statements, especially by the current decision-makers in the ruling coalition. We are young, so to speak, the engine of the future and, as such, we need to be taken for granted in the formulation of all policies, i.e. as a priority. More and more individuals are deciding to go abroad, and we are thus witnessing the brain drain, even though the Slovenians are considered a sealing nation. Let me tell you here what lectures have been visited most recently by students – lectures on the subject: How to go abroad? It's so crowded that we can't get all the students to the classrooms, and the parties aren't that visited. So I think it's a very important signal what's going on. The world stands on young people, they say. If young people fail to lay proper foundations, they will soon begin to wave. Therefore, to conclude, I stress once again that we are young people in the future. But it is in your hands to enable us to develop and give us an opportunity with appropriate policies. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andreja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, for an introduction to the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u6	Good day to you, too! Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a new law on scholarship, prepared by the Slovenian Student Organisation and with the support of 5,000 voters and voters submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, has been prepared to a large extent on the basis of the proposal for a law on scholarship submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2008-2011. The procedure was concluded on the basis of Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or, if we simplify it, due to early elections. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities considered the proposed law on scholarships as a serious call and at the same time welcomed assistance in the further regulation of the system of scholarships in the Republic of Slovenia. The Legislative Service of the National Assembly found a number of inconsistencies and legal inconsistencies in the text itself, and it was therefore decided to try together on the basis of the already prepared law in the previous term, on the basis of a new law signed by the electorate and the electorate, to join in a compromise proposal. This compromise proposal was made and it was 18. 3. 2013 was adopted by the Government and introduced into the procedure in the National Assembly. When you vote on the draft law you have on the table today on the withdrawal decision, the possibility will in fact be open to the continuation of the procedure for the new law on scholarships, where this is a compromise. I think that coordination between the students and the ministry themselves has been good and we will continue to do so. So I ask you to vote that the law is inappropriate, thus opening up the possibility of a law that is largely harmonised, and some discussions have already taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are still moving on to the consideration of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, distinguished representative of the motioners, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposed grant law, which has been tabled by 7 000 644 signatories, which already gives him considerable weight from this point of view, shows that a comprehensive and well-thought regime is urgently needed in the area of scholarships. However, the proposal, unfortunately, contains a number of shortcomings or ambiguities, as also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. The text of the proposal is incomplete, vague and flawed. The adoption of the law in the proposed form would lead to unconstitutionality, as the proposal is contrary to the constitutional principle of the rule of law, which stipulates that laws must be clear and unequivocal. In this way, it also proves in some way that such an argument is accepted by the bill's proponents themselves. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will therefore support the proposal of the decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We are pleased, however, that the Ministry, in cooperation with the student organisation, has already prepared a new comprehensive proposal for a law on scholarship, which the Government has already adopted and sent to the National Assembly in March. The new proposal, which was also adopted on the basis of a public presentation of opinions, is also acceptable to the student organisation, as it introduces a number of solutions that they have proposed, and in particular is an important innovation in the return of scholarships to young students, which will certainly improve their social and active situation. Today, we are expected to conclude the legislative procedure concerning the proposed law on scholarships under consideration, while at the same time focusing all our energy on regulating, as soon as possible, the system of scholarships as comprehensively and systematically as possible, by adopting a government proposal for a law that we have in the legislative process for a good month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Good day to you all. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in the past two mandates, we have repeatedly pointed out the need for a comprehensive scheme in the field of scholarship, which has been on the sidelines of government teams since the adoption of the new social legislation, which has also abolished scholarships for underage students. The promises of the Pahor's Government or the competent minister of Svetlik and the current minister, who was then the State Secretary, to improve the situation of the schooling youth or at least to preserve them at the same level as, I cannot say otherwise, total deception. In fact, family budgets have been severely reduced due to the suspension of scholarships for young students, as the loss of scholarship income cannot be replaced by a few euros higher children's allowance, despite the fact that all of the ruling teams then convinced us otherwise. However, we have before us a proposal for a law on scholarship, which was put into the legislative process by a group of 5,000 voters, and the main initiative in drafting the legislative proposal and collecting signatures was the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The content of the proposed law or the issue of a comprehensive system regime in the field of scholarship was also addressed in a long time by a public presentation of opinions, which opened up several important issues and also the way for the proposed law on scholarships to be used as a basis for the preparation of a new law on scholarships. The latter was put into the legislative process a good month ago by the former government, and as far as we are aware of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, students, students as well as the current government or the competent ministry agree with him. The substantive issues raised by the proposed law would not be discussed here, as there will be plenty of opportunities to deal with the government's proposal. I would mention once again that young people, especially in the crisis we are witnessing, deserve equal treatment and the same level of social rights as the rest of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! The urgency of the amendments to the Act on Scholarships has been shown mainly after the withdrawal of scholarships to underage students and when the social status of families has deteriorated significantly due to the economic crisis. In the DeSUS Group for this reason, we welcome the work of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which has taken a firm approach to the subject and has prepared the proposed law. The ability of the Student Organisation and the competent ministry to cooperate is also welcome, and in particular the awareness of both that they can jointly find solutions that are financially acceptable to the State and, on the other hand, to students and students. These solutions should enable the relief of material problems, which today plague a large proportion of Slovenian families with educated youth, to connect the school system more closely with the needs of employers and to reward and stimulate the talent, propriety and commitment of our young potentials. The fact is that in Slovenia we need a systematic approach to the scholarship policy. This must be regulated in a comprehensive and transparent manner if we want the funding allocated to the learning population to serve its purpose. An agreement was reached between the student organisation and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which provides for the rejection of the bill tabled today by the Student Organisation and for further consideration of the proposal for a law drafted by the government. Since this is obviously a very constructive cooperation, in the DeSUS Group we support the adoption of the decision of the home committee that the proposal for a grant law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Following is the position of the New Slovenia Group, presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, the distinguished representative of the motioners, colleagues and colleagues! Grants are certainly an important educational instrument and through state scholarships also social policy. With scholarships, we encourage an increase in the educational level of the population, strengthen development also outside urban centres and eliminate the structural imbalance in the labour market, which is then reflected in higher employment. Ambassadors and Members of New Slovenia are committed to a fair and systematic regulation of the field of scholarships and are reminded of the measures that bring students and students, recipients of scholarships to a difficult situation many times. We have pointed out several times in this place the income surplus that the adoption of the Lighten Law on the exercise of rights from public funds has brought to families with underage students. Large families have lost the most because some parents provide only the most difficult means of training their children. The final report, an assessment of the impact of the implementation of the new social legislation recently prepared by the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, is unfortunately confirmed by our concerns. For this reason, we welcome the experience of the Student Organisation, which is a good signal to us – decision makers, that young people are dissatisfied with the current regulation of the field of scholarship and that they have proposals for solutions. Throughout the broad public debate and a high-quality public presentation of opinions, we were informed that the SOS proposal would not, nevertheless, satisfactorily address the shortcomings of the current regime. On the contrary, it would lead to additional systemic uncertainties, but in the view of the Ministry of Labour, it could also destroy the basic purpose of the scholarship. Former Minister of Labour Magi. Visjak has therefore agreed with the representatives of the applicants to stop this law and to jointly draft a system law on scholarships, which is already under consideration in the National Assembly. We are pleased that the new minister and her team are following this direction. There is no alternative to all arguments. In New Slovenia we will support the establishment of such a scholarship policy based on the integrated regulation of all areas affecting the lives of students and the human resources needs of our society. We support such a scholarship policy, which provides talented and hardworking students with sufficient scholarships to be able to study regularly and temporarily and occasionally do not represent a basic source of means of survival. For all of this, we will support the conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration. We will continue to actively participate in the consideration of the new proposal for the Act on Grants.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you for your position. Following is the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, presented by Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u16	Hello! Positive Slovenia is of the opinion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. I will argue this with the fact that the proponents are defending the position that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and with another chronology of events. The law governing the field of scholarship dates back to 2007, which means that a rather archaic law regulates the relevant situation and does not satisfy the needs of these situations. The students responded first and proposed their marriage. They were supported by 7,000 644, if I remembered the correct number, people in one week. That's certainly worth taking into account. I was very impressed with this proposal myself, including my fellow Members, but the Legal and Legal Service did not share this enthusiasm with us. She found too many comments which made her feel that the law would not be suitable for further proceedings. During our public opinion presentation, Members of Positive Slovenia defended the view that the scholarship policy was actually an investment policy. This position is our guide. We take the scholarship as an investment, not as a kind of charitable activity. This means that we must also create an environment for this investment to be paid to us and not to New Zealand, Australia or Canada. It is fortunate that students read enough, and on World Book Day, this fact does not show disregard. Unesco taught them a few things, Godota doesn't wait, you take matters into your own hands, you trigger the matter to the point where we are today. To conclude, perhaps one warning, a rather serious warning to the marriage, the coming law, about one rather serious note regarding the problems that Zig has caused us. He's been gone a long time. I think he'll be 200 years from now. I'm talking about Gigi Zois. Edelstein, who was looking for some talent and committed a certain mistake there. When translating Lenore, you must all remember this, and Gottfried Bürger translated it into Slovenian, he excused his bad translation with the fact that the Slovenian language was not sufficiently lofty and rich enough to satisfy the needs of this translation. That is, his talent in mineral science wanted to apply to poetry, but it didn't work. In short, we're not all for everyone, neither was the brand. We have to fix this. France Preshern came after him and proved that the brand was wrong. This is a mistake he hasn't experienced.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thanks for the attitude. Following is the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, to be presented by Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister! I find it difficult to agree that the existing law on scholarships is now an archaic law. What would you say about those laws, such as the 1993 Union Representativeship Act? That is why I believe that this law, which was passed in 2007, is a rather new law and a rather modern law, but since its entry into force, it has proved to be a number of details which should also be amended to make the system work better. In a desire to improve the system, the Student Organisation of Slovenia submitted its law with the signatures of students and students, which it summarized under the law which had already been discussed in the National Assembly and presented it as a solution that would improve the system of scholarships. However, it is likely that the speed and unsuspectingness of this law was rather incomplete in both substantive and technical terms and could mean that it would do more harm than good, as it would have raised quite a few new open questions. Fortunately, these representatives of the Student Organisation have also come to know themselves and agree that this law does not go into further consideration and that we will work on the law already tabled by the Government in the future. We will also be actively involved in the drafting of this government law in the SDS Group, and we warn and hope that this proposal will be addressed as soon as possible. On the basis of this law, a number of other sub-legislative acts need to be adopted, and the information system needs to be properly adapted to enable the system to function and we know how these things can get out of hand if laws are not adopted in a timely manner. Then we can get into the situation that we now have under the new social legislation. Especially important in terms of content is the adoption of this law itself because, as has been said many times before, scholarships for underage students will also be possible. The law will also allow for the combination of several different scholarships and the novelty of the deficit scholarship for those types of professions that are currently most lacking in the labour market. Of course, we all hope that the law will also correct those technical imperfections that we have witnessed to them now and have caused quite a few difficulties in implementation. As we already have elsewhere, we usually listen in the area of scholarships, that funding is constantly lacking, that there is never enough in the budget, but we do have another source that allows scholarships or scholarships. These are concession fees, which we often forget and which allow the number of scholarships granted to be significantly higher than they somehow show in the budget. In 2012 alone, more than EUR 26 million was collected from concession fees for the purposes of scholarships. Of course, this money needs to be used in an honest and appropriate manner so that more scholarships are granted. I would like to draw attention to another important issue: that we established the Fund for the Development of Personnel and Grants years ago. This is the institution that is supposed to award all types of scholarships in one place. He's been doing it for years. I think that it is necessary to think in the direction that the remaining scholarships, which are still from a number of other national sources, should be transferred to the fund, making the system even more efficient. The challenges for the new law are therefore great, we hope to upgrade the scholarship system so that it will be more effective so that we can grant more scholarships, in short, to the satisfaction of all. However, the decision will be supported by the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thanks for the attitude. The position of the Group of Social Democrats, presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, will be followed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on scholarship, which we are considering today, has been prepared by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and has been put into the legislative process by more than 5,000 signatures of the electorate and electorate. Social Democrats are constantly stressing the importance of civil initiative and the willingness of civil society to participate actively in the legislative process. The SOS collected the necessary signatures in less than one week, which proves their very good organisation, as well as the great interest of the student and the student population in the issue of scholarship. In his position at the meeting of the parent committee, the SHOS stressed that, with the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, they had reached an agreement that the law they had proposed would be rejected and that the Government or the competent ministry, together with the students, would be adequately supplemented and amended by the Act on Grants, which had been tabled in the legislative procedure by the previous government. Social Democrats understand the bill as the starting proposal of the SOS or as the basic guidelines for finding solutions to the scholarship policy. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is extensive and identifies the non-consistency of the law, renegotiation and other systemic shortcomings. However, given the willingness of the SOS to agree and agree that the law is not suitable for further consideration, this opinion should be seen as a welcome guide for the further drafting of laws by civil society. The fundamental novelties of the law, as well as of the government, are: the introduction of scholarships for deficient professions, the possibility of combining scholarships and the reintroduction of scholarships for young students. Changes in the way undergraduate students received a higher children’s allowance instead of the scholarship were granted to their parents, except in agreement with the student, they also proved to be not clever enough. Social Democrats believe that it would be best to regulate the situation of students and students in a comprehensive manner, but not only through scholarships, but also through a system of transport, nutrition, stay and other ratings. Here is another point – that the care of young people in education in Slovenia is directly exemplary, that the main problems, as shown by research and analysis, begin when these same young people start entering the labour market. It concentrates on the core of our problems and our societies. In view of the consensus reached among all key actors in the Proposal for a law on scholarship, we will not support the Social Democrats, but we look forward to a debate on a government compromise proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow, 24 April 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Period of the day, it's a proposal for a law amending the War Invalids Act, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, for a further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u22	The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on War Disabled Persons, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a hearing and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. The Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, in its opinion presented at the meeting of the Committee by the representative of the State Council of Mags. Darja Korv stressed that she did not support the bill's proposal for warnings of unequal treatment of family invalidity recipients caused by the adoption of the proposed legislative solution. The Commission calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit as soon as possible, in the event of the withdrawal of the draft law amending the Law on War Disabled Persons, a amendment to the Law on War Disabled Persons, which will fully and equally regulate the problem of beneficiaries of family disability. The representative of the proposer said in his introductory explanation that the Committee was asked to reject the proposal for a law and the Government would prepare comprehensive solutions, which would also follow warnings of unequal treatment of beneficiaries of a family disability resulting from the adoption of proposed legal solutions. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented a written opinion at the meeting of the Committee, pointing out that the introduction of an exemption from the 55-year age limit for the acquisition of invalidity for spouses of fallen fighters in military aggression to the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 constitutes a different treatment, and this distinction constitutes an infringement of the principle of equality as set out in Article 14 of the Constitution. The Legislative and Legal Service therefore proposes that the drafter should re-examine the validity of those measures in the constitutional principle of equality before the law and, in the event that they remain in the draft law, state the constitutionally compatible reasons for this distinction. In the debate on the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, the view was expressed that the bill should be adopted as it regulates the rights of a narrow group of people — widows who lost a family member in the war for Slovenia. In the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which proposes that the drafter of the law should intervene in the constitutional principle of equality set out in Article 14 of the Constitution, he should re-examine and clarify the position that this issue must be addressed as soon as possible, but that the Constitution should also be respected. That is why most of the debaters agreed that the bill was not adopted, but a new, systemic solution must be drawn up as soon as possible, since the issue concerns not only the widows of the war on Slovenia but also other beneficiaries. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law amending the Law on War Disabled Persons was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee also adopted a decision transmitted to the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities proposing that the Government prepare an appropriate and comprehensive solution in this area as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you, too. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, the proposer of the bill, for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the home working body. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The purpose of the law was to facilitate the protection of the rights of widows following the fall of a warrior from a solitary war who did not meet the age requirement of 55 years to obtain the right to family disability. The proposal for a law amending the law on disabled persons is thus proposing the deletion of the age condition of 55 years, but only for widows of fallen fighters, members of the Territorial Defence and the Police, to obtain this right to family disability as a separate right. The situation is that these widows are entitled to a family disability while children are in school and can then reach a certain period when they are not 55 years old and cannot be independent beneficiaries of this right. If such an intervention was not appropriate in law, we were warned by the Legislative and Legal Service because we also had other categories of family disability beneficiaries, so not just one category of widows who had fallen into the Liberation War, and with such a solution we would introduce new discrimination into the law and, as such, the law is unconstitutional. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the new mandate is that we do not adopt, particularly if we are warned, laws that have elements of possible unconstitutionality, so we undertake, in accordance with the decision of the home committee, to try, in accordance with the financial possibilities of the country, to approach this issue in an integrated manner and we will present you with a solution that will be systematic and will not introduce new discrimination or even elements of non-constitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by Mr Mikhael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the War Disability Act had only one objective, namely the establishment of an exception to the exercise of the right to family disability of widows who had fallen into a solitary war, so that the latter, as independent users, could exercise that right, irrespective of the age of 55, regardless of the age of the basic law. The only condition is that they were living with the fallen in a common household. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the regulation of the rights of family members who have fallen into war for our independence is an important but sensitive issue which needs to be addressed in a constitutionally permissible manner. The proposed solution, in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, means different treatment of individual categories of citizens, which could constitute a violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law. We agree with this opinion in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but at the same time we believe that it would be procedurally more correct if the new government or coalition at the meeting of the mother's working body suggested that the novels of the law on disabled persons should be moved to one of the following meetings. This would, in our view, also buy us time to eliminate the reporting of unconstitutionality. Unfortunately, however, this has not occurred since the bill was assessed as inappropriate for further consideration. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we regret that the legislative procedure for the amendment of the law on disabled persons has been completed. Therefore, we expect the Government to prepare comprehensive solutions in the field of disabled persons as soon as possible, and thus respect the decision taken at the meeting of the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you again. In the DeSUS Group, we do not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on War Disability. We do not support it because of warnings about unequal treatment of beneficiaries of family disability caused by the adoption of proposed legislative solutions. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out that the introduction of an exemption from the age limit of 55 years for the acquisition of invalidity for spouses of fallen fighters in military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 constitutes a different treatment, and this distinction constitutes an infringement of the principle of equality as set out in Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The applicant did not explain the reasons for the regulation of differences, so, as stated by the Legal and Legislative Service, it is not possible to assess whether these reasons are reasonable and genuine and justified in differences in the actual situation in which the proposal for a law relates to different rights. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the bill is not suitable for further consideration, but at the same time we call on the Government and the competent ministry to find more comprehensive solutions as soon as possible, since the issue concerns not only widows in the war for Slovenia but also other beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! The proposal for a law amending the Law on War Disability is short but symbolically extremely important. It seems to us that it is a law that has the greatest symbolic significance today, that is, in today’s session of the National Assembly. What's this all about? The widows of the fallen Territorial Defence fighters and members of the Police who lost their lives in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia during the 1991 Yugoslav People's Army aggression cannot, as a rule, exercise the right to family disability under the War Disabled Persons Act as independent beneficiaries, since they have not yet fulfilled the age criterion of 55 at the time of the loss of their husband. It can only be enforced as co-habitants with a child who would be entitled to such a right. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that at least what the country can do to these four, that, to the four widows, it is just such a disability after the deceased husband. These women and children have no husband, no father, no guardian. These are specific people and specific difficult family situations. Therefore, we find it completely unacceptable to transfer the new leadership of the Ministry of Labour and the new coalition, which hid behind the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and possible inequalities before the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Inequality. With what, colleagues and colleagues, or with whom will you be able to equalize the fact that someone has given his life for his country? And when a friend of mine who was in the war for Slovenia came to my office, interestingly, he opened up this question about this law and said to me, "Well, you'll see, don't worry, the vote will show which side was on which side." I don't want to share his thoughts here or comment. I expect, however, and in New Slovenia we expect the new government, the new government coalition, to pass the law it predicts before parliamentary holidays. Everything else is just a mockery of the self-inflicted war. In our view, the bill must be adopted because it regulates the rights of a small group of people, widows who have lost a family member in the war for Slovenia. Four widows who are entitled or entitled to an early retirement pension under the law are in no way privileged or privileged. Despite all efforts to clean up the pension allowance and all the measures taken, we still have a number of privileged pensions that are peacefully tolerated and untouchable. Members and Members of the New Slovenia will not support the proposal for a decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as we firmly defend the position that the law must be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Serious incriminating words fell a little earlier, on which side was someone during the 1991 war of independence. I will say that I stand firm behind the view that I was then, even though I was much younger, and that I am also today, even though I will vote against the law, on the people and on the side of constitutional justice and equality. And that is why I will vote against the proposed law. Since the Law-Legal Service has made it very clear that the law points to possible unconstitutionality in three points. I will not specifically point out these points because the Minister made them sufficiently clear in the opening presentation of the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this law. At the same time, allow me to add a very short comparison, even though I believe that the content of these two matters cannot be compared. But in the mandate of the previous government, we have adopted a whole series of laws which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, were unconstitutional, not only in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, even the Constitutional Court has shown or stated that the laws are unconstitutional. Where were you then advocates of rights, advocates of symbolic importance, when you and ZUJF went against the Constitution into pensions? Twenty-six thousand and several other pensioners were injured. Today the state budget will be damaged because it will have to, because it is right, give these pensioners their pensions back. Not only will it be necessary to pay back the eligible pension, but even the interest will have to be paid by the state budget for the adoption of a law that was unconstitutional. That's what you are. I believe this government won't allow it. Therefore, Positive Slovenia will also vote against the law. And I say that it is not possible to compare these two laws, for this law, even if it is not adopted at this time, will not take anything away from anyone. But it is true that these four beneficiaries, widows, will not have the right to a family pension this month or next month. And when we voted on the working body on the decision that the law was inappropriate for further consideration, we Members of the Positive Slovenia actually appealed to the Government and demanded that the conclusion be complemented that the Government or the Ministry of State should prepare an appropriate law as soon as possible, which would be of a systemic nature and would not raise doubts about the unconstitutional nature. I heard from one of the opposition's representatives at the previous point that they are aware that equal treatment and level of rights are needed. Yes, I hope that you will also be aware of this when voting on this law or on the decision. If you don't mind, very briefly. I believe the novels of the War Disability Act have a good purpose. I believe absolutely, and we have also made this very clear on the parent's working body. And I believe, dear colleagues and colleagues, that there is no interest in anyone in the National Assembly to block or oppose the legal regulation of the family pension of widows who have fallen in the defense of our country. That is why we have also proposed that the Ministry of Field Affairs prepare an appropriate solution as soon as possible. I really expect Members with the contents of the novel to get to know each other at the next meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly. And this is also an appeal to the Minister who is with us today. As it is said, the conclusion that the law is inappropriate for further consideration will be supported by this additional explanation that the Ministry prepares an appropriate correction of this content as soon as possible in the new system law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. Following is the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u34	Good-bye, everybody! The draft law amending the Law on War Disability has one article which states: "The age condition does not apply to spouses of fallen fighters who lost their lives in carrying out military duties or other duties for the purposes of defence and security of the Republic of Slovenia in military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991." And interferes with Article 57 of the current law. The purpose of the proposed different regime is to allow the widows of fallen fighters from military aggression to the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, which has not yet met the age requirement of 55 years in order to exercise the right to family invalidity, regardless of age, as independent users. So we're talking about a family disability, not a pension, as some have said. The Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee considered that the law was not suitable for further consideration, including on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which assessed that there was unjustified positive discrimination, since the Government did not further explain the reasons for the proposal to regulate those differences, and it is also not possible to assess whether these reasons are reasonable and genuine and justified in differences in the actual situation in which the proposal for a law binds different rights. That's what law enforcement says. However, it must be said that the previous Government, specifically Minister Vizjak, who drafted the law, further explained the reasons for the adoption of the law on the Committee. The new government, which should further clarify these reasons at the initiative of the Legislative and Legal Service, has not done so – so the proposal concludes that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Once again, we're not talking about retirement. Many of the privileged pensions we have and give in this country have already been mentioned today, but this is a family disability. In the SDS Group, we believe that we cannot compare the self-sustaining war with anything, so we can regulate essentially the same positions equally. They can't be widows who lost their partner in the war in the same situation as the disabled. These are in different categories, some capable of work and so on. If it were the will, it would be regulated by the law and then the government would amend the law further if it assessed that any other categories should be regulated. We have decided and given a specific position already under some other laws. For example, in the law on scholarships, we treated or added certain transfers and assigned them to children who had fallen into the war of independence. Then why did we do it? It's a specific situation and a special status, it's a one-time act, only one single-force war we've had in this country. No one is taken into account by law, nor does it interfere with the rights of others, but it would be arranged or added to three or four widows after the fall of the fighters in the war of independence. In the SDS Group, we believe that the law should be adopted and we will not vote in favour of the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you. Following is the position of the Group of Social Democrats, presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Hello again! The main content of the draft law amending the Law on War Disability is the deletion of the age requirement of 55 years for obtaining a family disability allowance for widows of fallen fighters who lost their lives in carrying out military duties in the war for Slovenia in 1991. Social Democrats do not oppose such an option, on the contrary, it seems important that we address the situation positively if these widows have lost their income, because children have completed their education and no longer have a family disability under this title, but have not yet completed their 55 years in order to exercise the right to a so-called widow's pension or disability. However, it is important to draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which warned us that the proposed solution is to treat the recipients of family invalids differently in three respects: the abolition of the age limit is not proposed for divorced spouses; it is not proposed for spouses of war invalids after their death and not for spouses who have fallen in other periods of war. Therefore, the legislative service considers that such a proposal could be unconstitutional or that the legislator should state the legitimate reasons why such a solution should be implemented without discrimination. Based on the experience of the Public Finance Balance Act, where the Constitutional Court has so far repealed two provisions with negligible financial implications, we believe that comprehensive solutions must be drawn up that are consistent with the Constitution. Corrections that you have constantly warned us about cannot be made with such a novelty of the law that we have been given to deal with. It is important to be aware of what is the legislative procedure, which articles must be open and how we can interfere with them. Therefore, it would not be possible to bring such an amendment of the law into further proceedings without a fundamental remark that it was a violation of the Constitution. For these reasons, the Social Democrats will not support and oppose any abuse of the debate on this well-intentioned law, and we will also support this well-intentioned amendment to the War Disabled Act for further ideological accounts. Since we believe that the issue must be addressed, we support the Committee's decision on work, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, with which the Committee proposes to the Government to prepare a comprehensive system-wide solution to this area as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will also follow the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to everyone again! On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on War Disability, which proposed the introduction of an exemption from the age requirement of 55 years to obtain a family disability for spouses of fallen fighters who lost their lives in carrying out military duties and other duties with the aim of defending and protecting the Republic of Slovenia in military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991. Some comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to the proposal for a law, since this exception treats the recipients of a family disability differently in three respects: the age limit does not apply to spouses and continues to apply to divorced spouses referred to in Article 1, paragraph 9, to whom the right to family disability belongs; the age limit applies only to spouses of fallen fighters, and not to spouses of disabled persons up to the 7th group after their death, which is also covered by Article 57 of the War Disabled Persons Act; the age limit applies only to spouses of fallen fighters in aggression to the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, and not to spouses of fallen fighters in other war periods, which are covered by Article 57 of the War Disabled Persons Act. Such a distinction essentially constitutes an intervention in the principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution and such an intervention is not sufficiently justified in the proposal for a law. The Constitutional Court has already decided several times, in March of this year, also in the case of the ZUJF, that the legislator must treat in substantial similar situations the same and, in substantial differences, unless the constitutionally permissible reason or reasonable reason for such an examination arises from the nature of the matter. Since the proposal for a law does not contain reasonable and real reasons for such a distinction, we will support in the Parliamentary Group the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We must follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and we must not adopt unconstitutional acts. At the same time, we are aware and stressing, I repeat, that the situation of the spouses of fallen fighters and other groups must be addressed as soon as possible. We expect the Ministry to address this issue as soon as possible and to draw up a proposal that will not be contrary to the Constitution. Finally, I would like only to ask that this well-respected assembly should not manipulate the public on the subject of self-conquering war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow, 24 April 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on latent and invalidity insurance, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is on 13. 3. 2013 adopted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The new law provides for the amendment of the new PPIZ-2 in the part relating to the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance on the basis of voluntary entry into compulsory insurance. With the amendment of the law, a gradual increase in contributions for voluntary admission to compulsory pension and disability insurance will be re-ordered for unemployed persons who are registered at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, who are included in voluntary compulsory insurance and who are registered at the institution until 31 December 2012. In accordance with the provisions of the SPIZ-2 which entered into force with 1. 1. In 2013, all insured persons in pension and disability insurance should pay the same amount of contributions for pension and disability insurance, regardless of the basis on which they are included in the compulsory insurance. However, in recent months it has been shown that such an increase in contributions based on voluntary inclusion without transitional periods or a gradual increase in contributions has had a negative impact on the number of contributions involved. The new law therefore provides for a gradual rise in the minimum basis for the payment of contributions for voluntary entry into this insurance or the possibility of being involved in voluntary insurance under conditions that were in force before the entry into force of the new law of 1. 1. 2013 These conditions will be gradually amended in accordance with the new law, for all persons who were on the 31st day. 12. 2012 included in this voluntary insurance as an unemployed person and entered in any of the records of the employment agency. We believe that such a benefit will significantly improve the material and social situation of unemployed persons who have been included in this form of insurance to a large extent, because they have lost their working relationship a long time ago and have a very short period to meet the age-retirement requirement. On the basis of the proposed amendment, insurers will be able to pay lower contributions to pension and disability insurance as follows. In 2013, the indicative amount of the contribution will be 59.41 euros, in 2014, 66.84 euros, in 2015 92.83 and then gradually rise to the final value of 2020, as well as the financial stability of our pension system. The draft law also provides that an insurance undertaking which is based on the ZPIZ-2 of 1. 2013 paid a higher contribution, the right to pay back the overpaid contribution and will receive it within 90 days of the entry into force of this Act, on an official basis. Insured persons referred to in the proposal for a law which has been effective since 1. 1. When the new law enters into force, they will be released from this compulsory insurance, under the proposed law, they may be reintegrated into the compulsory insurance for the period from cancellation to reintegrating into the insurance within 30 days of the application of this law. However, within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act, they will have to pay contributions for the period when they were not insured, i.e. for the period up to 1. 1. 2013 It seems to me that it is important to adopt this novel in order to ensure that these people are being phased out because, in fact, the adoption of the novel ZPIZ-2 has significantly changed their position, so it is right to allow them a gradual increase in these contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you, too, for the introduction to the law. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. To present the Committee's position, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u42	The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the ZPIZ and the representative of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service. It made comments on the text submitted. On the basis of these, amendments were tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups following the recommendations. The Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, in its opinion presented by the representative of the State Council of Mag. Dušan Semolič, the bill was supported. However, she pointed out that the proposed gradual rise in the minimum basis for the payment of voluntary contributions to compulsory pension insurance would not solve all the problems of unemployed persons. The representative of the applicant stated in the recital that the basic objective of the amendment of the law of reimbursement of the possibility of inclusion in voluntary insurance is to be subject to conditions that were in force prior to the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2 and will gradually change. The law also pursues the objective of ensuring social security for the most vulnerable groups of persons who are registered at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment as unemployed persons and are just before retirement, as they may be entitled to pensions and all other compulsory insurance rights on the basis of their inclusion in insurance at the time of the occurrence of the insurance risk. In his presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled included comments made by the Office. He also stressed that it is important that representatives of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which will also implement the law, participate in the process of adopting and amending the law. Members and members of the Committee agreed that the proposed amendments should be accepted and some discussers pointed out the problem of extending the increase in insurance. At the same time, they pointed out a deviation from the insurance principle, as rights are expected in the light of the contributions paid to be paid. This is a state budget that covers the loss of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. A longer discussion was held on Article 7 where the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber proposed a distinction between the wider and the greater scope of the rights for voluntary protection of farmers. No one has taken up the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, but the representative of the Government has explained that the new ZPIZ-2 no longer knows the distinction between a narrower and broader scope of rights, since all categories have been levelled and granted a wider range of rights. The debate highlighted the view that poverty among the elderly, especially in the rural area, has increased dramatically in our country. Such measures actually do the left-hand side of the insurance – they do so less in the active age and therefore less in the passive age. It should be borne in mind that it is not only the amount of the contribution, since the retirement period is deemed to be insurance irrespective of the extent. The pension, which will reflect the contributions paid, will in fact be very low. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups and also adopted its amendments. A proposal for a law which is an integral part of this report has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you, too, for the committee report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! The data of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office show that the increase in the payment for voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance following the adoption of the PPIZ-2 was unsustainable for many people. By the beginning of March this year, as many as 7 thousand 170 voluntary insurers, all about 23,000 of them, had resigned from that insurance policy. Most of these persons are involved in this form of insurance because they have ceased their working relationship a while ago and have a very short period to meet the conditions for retirement. The basic objective of the amendment of the law is thus to restore the possibility of being involved in voluntary insurance under conditions that were in force prior to the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2 and which will gradually change. As a result, the law pursues the objective of ensuring social security for the most vulnerable groups of persons who are registered with the RS Employment Institute as unemployed and who are just before retirement, as they can benefit from pensions and all other compulsory insurance rights on the basis of insurance coverage. This proposal therefore introduces a transitional period and a gradual increase in the minimum base for persons who were voluntarily involved in compulsory insurance by 31 December 2012. However, in the DeSUS Group, we would like to point out that the situation remains alarming. The number of unemployed persons is on a marked increase, mainly increasing the number of unemployed persons in the age group above 50 years of age. In a situation like that of Slovenia today, there is little hope that the situation will improve by 2018 when the transitional period expires. I can expect that the social security of the unemployed to deteriorate in the coming year or two, with the greatest threat to the unemployed just before retirement. However, that the employment opportunities of the older unemployed are minimal, we all know. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposed law, but we have doubts as to whether long-term unemployment will be able to afford such financial burden even after 2018, without worsening their social security. Let me also point out an increasingly up-to-date case concerning the payment of voluntary pension insurance, namely a new arrangement under the ZPIZ-2, whereby voluntary contributions to the fulfilment of the conditions of retirement are considered to be a sum. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this would indicate a re-check as soon as possible, as due to the high unemployment rate and precarious forms of work today, a large number of people who pay their own voluntary insurance, even after a few months per year, can stand even a few years in their total active working age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Following is the position of the New Slovenia Group, which will be presented by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u46	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! You know, some laws have a more indirect effect on our lives, others slightly less. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted at the end of last year and entered into force with effect from 1. 1. 2013 is definitely in the group of the latter. That is why he has been closely monitored throughout the hearing by all social partners, the media and other interested public. Despite the broad dialogue led by the previous ministerial team, there are unfortunately some unfavourable solutions for individual groups of people because of the great scope of the law and the complexity of its provisions. The Novela, which is ahead of us, wants in particular to pay back to the previous level the level of contribution for voluntary participation in the group voluntarily included in the pension and disability insurance, which were registered as job seekers at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia on 31 December 2012. Before 1 January of this year, this contribution amounted to just over €57. With the new pension reform, it was raised to EUR 190 and several cents. The unemployed, especially the elderly, who were without regular incomes, had already paid that amount heavily before, and after the increase for most of them this was virtually impossible, as shown by the fact that in the first two months of 2013, as many as 7,000 of the approximately 23 000 voluntary members of pension and disability insurance were registered. According to a number of actors, the Ministry responded immediately to the warnings of the social partners and allowed for a return to the previous situation and an extension of the transitional period of the contribution up to 2020. We also welcome the possibility of repaying overpaid contributions to those who have remained involved in insurance. Because of this and some other good solutions, Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you. Following is the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, presented by mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much again for your word, President. On the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, the union representative said that it was clear from the urgency of the systemic changes in pension legislation that the law currently in force was not correct. This is then shown in practice. And it has also happened that, as we have heard, the contribution rate in the area of raising the lowest base for paying contributions to those voluntarily involved in pension and disability insurance has risen from a good €57 to more than €100. This has led to the inability of many insurers to pay for this contribution. It will be easier to imagine that this is a category of older unemployed who are waiting to meet all those minimum conditions for early retirement. However, the problem is not just the rise in the insurance premium. In addition, I will say, he is dramatic because the new law has exacerbated the conditions for retirement and he is objectively over 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia, who at this moment can only hope that I will not tell them that they will meet the conditions for early retirement, i.e. 60 years of age and 40 years of retirement. It is therefore important that we deal with these matters with all sensitivity, even though they represent a departure from the European principle adopted to tighten pension legislation, even though certain Members have had certain concerns precisely because of their responsibilities towards the European Union and their commitments to the home labour body. One of the key changes proposed in this novel is to establish a gradual rise in the minimum base for the payment of contributions or the possibility of inclusion in voluntary insurance under conditions that were in force before the new pension law was implemented, i.e. before 1. 1. 2013 These conditions will gradually change after the amendment is adopted. This stage is extended to not until 2018, as it was heard in one of the presentations before me, but until 2020. This also takes into account forecasts that the economic situation will be particularly acute in the next three years and the related unemployment. The law is kind of, if you want, social corrective. And that's the right thing to do. He's already been told enough to be up to one. 3. In the good two months of voluntary inclusion due to the new pension legislation, a total of 7 000 170 persons signed out of insurance. At the same time, the law provides that the insured person who, under the new pension law, has paid too much for the period from 1 January 2013 onwards, has the right to repay this overpaid contribution. This right shall be imposed on him automatically and shall be paid by virtue of an official obligation within 90 days of the entry into force of this law. As I said on the committee, in Positive Slovenia we will absolutely support the law, regardless of the estimated financial implications for the budget, about EUR 200 000, because the law improves the built-in systemic weakness of pension legislation and takes into account the actual situation on the ground, if I say so or the economic situation of the insured. We will also support the proposed amendment by the Ministry, which touches on the rights of pension fund managers. More on the amendment, if necessary, in the debate below.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you. Following is the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, to be presented by Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished Minister! At the time of the adoption of the new pension legislation, one of the main objectives we pursued was a greater link between the contributions paid and the pensions paid and, at the same time, equal treatment of all the debtors. Thus, higher contributions should also ensure that pensions are eventually higher. All debtors, who pay approximately the same contributions, should be given equal rights. However, in the case of the possibility of insurance for a narrower scope, this is not the case. Insurers who were protected for a greater extent were somehow in a better position than some others. Let me tell you a case. Someone who paid €57 per month for a higher level of voluntary insurance paid around €684 for the year of insurance. Someone else who bought this year's insurance had to pay 4,000 euros for it. On the other hand, insurers who took advantage of the possibility of greater coverage were not sufficiently aware that this does not only bring a lower contribution, but also offers a lower level of entitlements for all those who were the main part of their insurance in this type of insurance. Thus they do not have the right to a pension from the lowest pension base, do not have a pension, do not have a pension, do not have a pension, do not have a third category disability, and do not have an annual allowance. Notwithstanding the fact that the change in the system in this direction, as has been done, has been meaningful and substantively justified, an important side effect has been overlooked in the adoption process. No one, not the unions, nor the fellow Member and fellow Members, has warned him about what would be right today if it were somehow different. But this sudden and massive increase in the contribution meant a very severe additional burden for those insured who were in the weakest position in the employment agency. Many, as we have already heard, have been forced by such an increase even to take such extreme measures as the withdrawal from insurance. Of course we don't want that. That is why the Ministry, under the leadership of Minister Viszak, immediately realized that some changes should be made in this area. One of them is here today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the gradual increase in this contribution, which is why we will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats, presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, will be followed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u52	Your Honor! We would like to stress, in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the introduction of the amendment adopted by the Committee, as well as the extension of the transitional period during which insured persons who are voluntarily involved in disability insurance may pay lower contributions. This is the case for unemployed persons who have been voluntarily involved in compulsory insurance under the seventh indent of Article 34(1) of the ZPIZ-1 since the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2, and are insured under Article 25, paragraph 1, of this Act. Thus, the amount of these persons' contributions increased from €57.98 to € 190.82 by the implementation of the new PPIZ-2. It should be noted, however, that, according to the old persons involved in voluntary compulsory insurance, they could choose between a narrower and wider range of rights between a lower and a higher level of insurance. Persons who chose a narrower range of rights chose the basis for the amount of the guaranteed salary and paid a lower amount of the contribution in December 2012 amounted to 57,89 euros. The new law of ZPIZ-2 does not know the separation between a narrower and wider scope of rights, so the change in the amount of the contribution was even more drastic. According to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, in the first two months of this year a total of 7 000170 persons were registered who were unable to pay higher contributions. That the amendment was implemented immediately with the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2, which was an excessive leap in the amount of the contribution, especially in the light of the crisis in which we are in place, was also noted by the previous Government, which introduced in the procedure the amendments to the ZPIZ-2 supplement that we are considering today and which provided for a transitional period until 2018 to gradually increase the contribution rate of voluntary insurance. We are of the opinion of the Social Democrats that such a process would also be too severe and financially impossible for many insurers, so we have extended the transitional period by 2020 with the amendment we tabled together with the other parties to the coalition. We believe that, in such a 7-year transition period, the transition to the final level of the contribution will be easier and easier to achieve. Let us hope, however, that the economic situation in our country will also improve during this period and that the situation and situation of beneficiaries will improve. For these reasons, we will support the law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to everyone again! The purpose of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in the National Assembly last December, was, in view of the changing factors in society, to ensure in particular the long-term sustainability of the pension fund. All stakeholders have made great efforts to draft a law to stop the fall of pensions, improve the situation of pensioners and at the same time ensure the sustainability of the pension fund. However, despite all the effort and the search for the best solutions, some of the shortcomings of the adopted law were soon apparent. And these shortcomings require us to put an end to them. Due to the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2, many unemployed persons who were voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance were in a difficult material and social situation. The base from which contributions are to be paid has risen to 50% of the minimum wage for this group of insured persons and is expected to be 60% of the average annual salary of employees in Slovenia after the transitional period. As a result, according to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, up to 1. In 2013, in only two months, more than 7,000 persons registered from voluntary participation in compulsory insurance. And that was a truly disturbing or alarming information. Therefore, the essence of the novel ZPIZ, which we are considering today, is the introduction of a gradual increase in voluntary admission contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance for unemployed persons. Thus, after the new year, the lowest basis for paying a contribution would be 16% of the last known average annual wage for employees in Slovenia, and by 2020 this percentage will rise to 60%. By doing so, we will alleviate the plight of one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, and by gradually increasing our contributions we will make it easier to move to a higher level of contribution. For these reasons, we will support the amendment of the amendment of the coalition parties in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, presented by Mr Janez Ribič, will be followed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support a proposal for a law whose key objective is to restore the possibility of inclusion in voluntary insurance under conditions that were in force prior to the implementation of the Pensions and Disability Insurance Act-2, which will gradually change, while at the same time the proposed solutions should pursue the objective of ensuring social security for the most vulnerable groups of persons who are registered at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia as unemployed persons and are just before retirement. All those who have already retired from voluntary insurance because they failed to pay, we hope that they will be able to re-enter and thus provide social security as they can benefit from pensions and all other compulsory insurance rights on the basis of their inclusion in insurance. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the introduction of a transitional period and an amendment of a coalition that prolongs the period. We also support a gradual increase in the minimum base for persons who have been voluntarily involved in compulsory insurance under the seventh indent of Article 34(1) of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance until 31 December 2012. These are unemployed persons who are registered in any of the records of the Employment Office. It is also a reasonable and necessary step-by-step lifting of the base, so that we will allow all the excusers to provide the means of payment. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed arrangement that the lowest base will gradually increase from 16% of the last known average annual salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia, converted to a month in 2013, to the final 60% in the last year, that is in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 22 April 2013. I am thus putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? It's not a show of interest. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. As no one wants to discuss the amendment, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 24 April 2013, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the agenda, this is a draft resolution on the National Social Security Programme for the period 2013-2020. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u58	It's a nice greeting from me again. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! There's an important document ahead of you today. The resolution on the national social protection programme is indeed a key development document in the area of the social protection system, as it sets out the basic starting points and principles for the development of the system, the key objectives in the area of social protection, the network of public social protection services and programmes, and identifies how the programme is implemented and monitored and the responsibilities of individual actors at different levels. The draft resolution is based on the Social Protection Act. The motion for a resolution covers the period 2013-2020 and is as long as we had before other resolutions which were, as a rule, four years old. Why is that? Because we wanted to align this document with the European strategy for the period until 2020, and we committed ourselves as a country in that strategy, and it is right that we are now following with our national programmes that we can actually make commitments that are important to our citizens and citizens. We have prepared a document at the Ministry in close cooperation with a broad-based working group appointed for this purpose and with the Social Welfare Expert Council. The objectives of both qualitative and quantitative were determined on the basis of an assessment of the achievement of the objectives of the previous resolution, the key circumstances and factors that will affect the system by 2020, the development of needs and various social problems, as well as the expected financial capabilities. Key circumstances and factors in the development of the social protection system are particularly important economic conditions and employment – employment is key to poverty reduction, and demographic development, the population in Slovenia is ageing. By 2020, that is to say, during the seven-year period alone, the population over 80 will increase by a good 27,000. Therefore, the need for services in the area of long-term care and social inclusion of the elderly is also increasing. The three main objectives of the development of the social protection system by 2020 are: to reduce the risk of poverty and to increase the social inclusion of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, to improve accessibility and diversity and to ensure the accessibility and availability of services and programmes, to improve the quality of services and programmes and other forms of assistance. If you allow, I would highlight some other points in this document, particularly an active approach in social policy, the complexity and integration of policies that affect the social situation of individuals and families, the strengthening of communities of forms of social protection. The document also highlights the promotion of qualitative development aspects and innovative approaches to the development of social security services and programmes. In order to implement this resolution for the period 2013-2020, two implementation plans are envisaged at national and regional level covering a period of four years, with a more detailed dynamic of enlargement and development. The national implementation plan for the first period 2013-2016 must be drawn up within four months of the adoption of this resolution and the regional implementation plan within four months of the approval of the national implementation plan at the level of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the regional level, which I think is very important and crucial for further development in this area, the implementation plans will be coordinated by social work centres and will also be prepared by local community representatives, who will also confirm regional plans. The objectives under the responsibility of local communities will be defined by the municipalities in their planning documents. It seems important to me that we set goals at country level, but we are aware that we can only achieve goals together – with the cooperation of local communities and everyone concerned. The objectives of this programme are important, i.e. reducing the risk of poverty and social exclusion, developing programmes, and it is therefore appropriate that we all step together so that we can achieve this by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered a motion for a resolution which it addressed and submitted to the Government for adoption by the National Assembly. The legislative and legal service has examined the motion for a resolution. She noted that the motion for a resolution was inconsistent throughout the text with the use of abbreviations and also made comments on individual parts of the text of the resolution. On the basis of these comments, the Coalition's parliamentary groups tabled amendments, which were also adopted by the Committee. In its opinion presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee, the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council endorsed the motion for a resolution and also made some concrete comments. The Commission considers that the implementation of the national programme submitted in terms of the funding provided is questionable. They are aware that the proposal for a resolution of the national programme is a framework, strategic document that only guides the system, but they believe that its preparation and financial structure should also be based on more realistic foundations. The objectives should be set more realistically and unless the lack of resources makes it any different, they should be ranked even as a priority. In accordance with that Commission, it calls for implementing acts prepared under the national programme to be set up in a realistic and financial manner so that their implementation is not questionable. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Ministry of Health, Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, representative of the Centre of NGOs of Slovenia, representative of the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia and others participated in the work of the Committee. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities briefly presented the motion for a resolution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion in writing at the meeting and stressed that their comments had been taken into account in the preparation of the amendments of the coalition groups. However, it had a concrete comment on the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, and the Committee also adopted its amendment on this basis. In the course of the discussion, the members and members of the Committee and others invited spoke about the national coordination group, the lack of coordination of the financial aspect of the proposed resolution, the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the reduction of the risk of poverty and the increase of social inclusion of socially vulnerable and vulnerable groups, the improvement of availability and diversity and the availability and availability of services and programmes, the improvement of the quality of services and programmes, and other forms of assistance by increasing the efficiency of the management and management of implementing organisations. The majority of the debaters considered that the motion for a resolution was well prepared. The representative of the Government explained that the document under consideration concerns a complex broad area which already has an implementation plan and is therefore not a closed document. In its preparation, it was also based on a detailed analysis of demographic developments in previous years. In order to successfully implement the objectives set, it will be necessary to accelerate the adoption of measures and activities to ensure appropriate conditions and circumstances so that the objectives can be achieved. The implementation of the document will need to define priorities and these will be set out in the implementing documents and will depend on the absorption of cohesion funds. Cooperation with NGOs and other stakeholders is also important. The Committee adopted the amendments tabled and voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution together and adopted them. The updated motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The National Social Protection Programme for the period 2013-2020 has come to parliamentary treatment in a time of very acute social conditions. Unemployment is rising, employees' incomes are falling, there are no new jobs. That the measure is full, Slovenia has been facing the demographic crisis since the beginning of the economic crisis, which has been increasingly exposed to the problems of the elderly in the social and health systems. Although the national programme is strategic, it is a general document, according to Members of New Slovenia it is very important as a basis for the development of the social protection programme in the coming years. To this end, it identifies the basic starting points for the development of the system, objectives and strategies for the development of social protection, sets out the network of the public service of social protection services and public social welfare programmes, and identifies the way in which they are implemented and monitored and the responsibility of individual actors at different levels. It is right that the programme set ambitious goals. Among the three key ones, I would point out the first and probably most important: reducing the risk of poverty and increasing the social inclusion of vulnerable and vulnerable groups. We hope that the planned financial basis is also realistic and feasible, as we all know that the achievement of the objectives also depends on it. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary to ensure socially that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold, so we encourage awareness of the individual's personal responsibility for his or her own secure social situation – especially in age. In our opinion, therefore, three factors are responsible for the social security of each individual: first each individual, then his or her working and living environment, and finally the country with effective legislation and adequate financial resources. For all of this, the Members of New Slovenia will support the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2013-2020 and we want everything good in its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will be presented by mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u64	In five minutes, as long as time is available, it is difficult to get a content summary of a document that represents one or even a key development document in the field of social protection in our country. However, the resolution sets out the basic starting points and principles for the development of the system, the key social protection objectives, the network of public welfare services and programmes, and identifies how to implement and monitor the implementation of the programmes and responsibilities of individual actors at different levels. The latter gives me the hope that the document will not only remain a dead letter on paper, but through implementing acts it will really help to modernise and develop the widest area of social protection, which exceeds only social assistance to the weak in the form of some minimum financial rights. It is also development-oriented and can be a contribution to the country, which is of paramount importance for individual development. The resolution in this regard promises much, because Slovenia today is significantly lagging behind for the European Union, as regards the implementation of modern knowledge or approaches in dealing with and working with people, as well as in the case of respect for demographic trends. Slovenia is an ageing population. In Slovenia, according to the latest data, we have 45% of poor people over 65 years of age. Poverty is also extremely common among single parent families, and the risk of poverty is estimated at 40%. And when we are often compared to what a low percentage of the risk of poverty is in Slovenia among all the countries of the European Union, it is certainly very good to take into account the fact that in Slovenia the threshold for the risk of poverty for the single parent family is set at 600 euros, while in Germany, for example, this threshold is set at over 900 euros. And another interesting information, the proportion of older people living below the poverty line is rising in Slovenia, while in the European Union, even the most in the euro area, is declining. I will not go into detail because there is no time, so just a few important points. Let me make just two cases. In Slovenia we still do not have a legally regulated long-term care, and at the moment a network of social security services is inadequate. Social entrepreneurship, which is an important component and a complementary economic sector abroad, has not yet come to life. The almost insurmountable problem in Slovenia is when we meet with autism. Again, the insurmountable obstacle, the protection and work centres are full, and waiting periods are also long in this area. Where an adult who needs help and this service or care can be included. Years ago, Slovenia ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which clearly defines in its provisions the right of persons with disabilities to independent life. And you will remember how disabled people fought for the end of last year in the National Assembly to adopt a law that they prepared themselves and submitted with the support of more than 5,000 citizens. I am talking about the Personal Assistance Act, which is still funded by project in Slovenia. Do you imagine that in Slovenia we would try to implement the idea of the voucher method of financing disabled people? At this point, the mission is impossible. And last but not least, I'm going to mention the Long-Terms Act. You know how many years we've been talking and trying to get the law on long-term care, but we just can't find a way of funding to make this law work. If I snore. The three main objectives of the development of the social protection system by 2020 are: reducing the risk of poverty, that is also a commitment, and increasing the social inclusion of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, improving accessibility and diversity, and ensuring the accessibility and availability of services and programmes, and the third objective is to improve the quality of services and programmes and other forms of assistance. What I am particularly pleased about this resolution is that local communities will also be involved in the implementation programme. I only hope that it will not be forgotten to fund programmes at the local level, as it has already happened in the past, and I will only mention family helpers. We will certainly support this resolution in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. The draft resolution on the national social protection programme 2013-2020 sets out the basic starting points for the development of the system, the objectives and strategies for the development of social protection, and sets out the network of public social protection services and public social welfare programmes and identifies the way in which they are implemented and monitored and the responsibility of individual actors at different levels. As has already been said, the situation in the country is such that it is necessary to set the objectives of the national social protection programme for the period and they are set to respond to the increasing social and demographic pressures and problems that are or are still emerging in society. The resolution refers to as the main or general objective that the resolution seeks to achieve, on the one hand, to improve the quality of life of individuals and families and, on the other hand, to increase social cohesion and social inclusion of all groups of the population. The general objective set is, of course, possible only through the integration of policies into different fields and the uniformly targeted operation of different policies. At the same time, three key objectives directly related to the development of the social protection system are to reduce the risk of poverty and increase the social inclusion of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, to improve accessibility and diversity, and to ensure the accessibility and availability of services and programmes, and to improve the quality of services and programmes and other forms of assistance by increasing the efficiency of the management and management of implementing organisations, increasing their autonomy and quality management and ensuring the greater impact of users and users' representatives on the planning and delivery of services. To monitor, implement and assess the achievement of each of the three key objectives, one indicator and its targets are set by 2020, which means that we will be able to measure how successful we are in achieving it. The national programme also lays down the criteria for establishing a public network of social security services and programmes. In view of the purpose, these are preventive, curative and maintenance services. It then sets out a public service network in the field of social security services, which can be divided into three major groups: services, information, advice and support, support services and social inclusion assistance, and self-sustainment in the community and accommodation services. The Network shall then be established, implementing plans shall be drawn up for a period of four years for the direct achievement of the objectives of the Resolution. The country-level implementation plan will be adopted by the Government and adopted by the competent authorities of local communities for regional or local objectives. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be responsible for the implementation of the national implementation plan and the competent authorities of the local communities shall carry out the regional implementation plans as well as the implementing parts to be defined in the municipal planning documents. The regional implementation plans shall be adopted no later than four months after the adoption of the national implementation plan. At the latest four months after the adoption of the regional implementation plans, this must also be accepted by local communities in their strategic documents. In the SDS Group, we support the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2013-2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We also welcome the motion for a resolution on the national social protection programme, which is the umbrella programme document in the area of social protection. It's a third document of this kind. The first resolution was adopted for the period 2001-2005, the second for the period 2006-2007, and the third for the period 2013-2020, which also lasted a little longer. The contained resolution on the national social protection programme contains the basic starting points and principles for the development of the system, the key social protection objectives, the network of public social protection services and programmes, defines the way in which individual actors are implemented and monitored, and the implementation of the programme and the responsibility of individual actors at different levels. The three main objectives, reducing the risk of poverty, improving availability and ensuring the accessibility and availability of services and programmes, and improving the quality of services and programmes and other forms of assistance, should also be based on close cooperation between different levels as well as institutional and non-institutional operators. It should be pointed out that the resolution as a cover document regulates basic social protection guidelines and more in-depth operationalisation of the implementation of the national social protection programme will be defined in four-year implementation plans at both regional and national level. The implementation plan at national level for the period 2013-2016 should be drawn up four months after the adoption of that resolution and the implementation plan at regional level four months after the national implementation plan. It is particularly important to us to the Social Democrats that the resolution was prepared in a working group involving representatives of researchers, Umarja, social protection operators, non-governmental organisations representing users and the Social Chambers of Slovenia. These are the main actors in the field of social protection, which depend on the success of the implementation of the national programme. In today's tight economic situation, the role of NGOs is particularly important, and we are therefore pleased that NGOs in the field of social protection are supporting and accepting the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2013-2020 as a kind of document. The Social Democrats will also support this motion for a resolution ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek, Parliamentary Group of the National List, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Initially, the national social protection programme is all the more important in the years of the economic crisis, as the social problem is growing enormously. There has been an increase in the number of unemployed persons, resulting in an increase in the number of people below the national poverty risk line, while and as a result there has been an increase in various forms of addiction, mental health problems, and an increase in the number of homeless people. The problem of older people is also a burning issue. I'm thinking about older single women here. The social inclusion of the elderly is also very poor, and unfortunately they could still be listed. Therefore, the National Social Protection Programme 2013-2020 seeks to improve the quality of life of individuals and families and to increase the social cohesion and social inclusion of all groups. In doing so, the key objectives directly related to the development of the social protection system for the period 2013-2020 are the following: firstly, reducing the risk of poverty and increasing the social inclusion of vulnerable and vulnerable groups; secondly, improving the availability and affordability of services and programmes; thirdly, improving the quality of services and programmes and other forms of assistance by increasing the efficiency of the management and management of implementing organisations; increasing their autonomy; and managing the quality and ensuring the greater impact of users and users' representatives on the planning and delivery of services. In order to successfully implement the objectives set, it is necessary to accelerate the adoption of measures and activities to ensure appropriate conditions and circumstances so that the objectives can be achieved. I'll limit myself to some of the most important things. As soon as possible, we need to adopt laws that are urgently needed to alleviate the social distress of some groups of people. In this regard, I refer mainly to the Long-Term Care and Long-Term Insurance Act, the Personal Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Act, the Social Welfare Act, the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities Act and the reform of the health system. We need to adopt measures that will enable the implementation of the Social Entrepreneurship Act already adopted in March 2011 and encourage the development of social entrepreneurship. More efficient use of European funds for social programmes and measures can help us achieve our objectives, and within the implementation plans we need to provide stable sources of funding for the start-up and implementation of social protection programmes and services. I announce that we will support the draft resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2013-2020 in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Society List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Ambassador of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that in the crisis we are in, the pressure is further on all those who are already below the threshold or just above the poverty threshold. It is therefore of particular importance that the country, through its national social protection programme, draw up a realistic guidelines and identify short- and long-term operational tasks to manage poverty and alleviate distress. It is therefore quite understandable that in order to fully realize the objectives of the national programme for the period 2013-2020, it is envisaged that we will be able to provide sufficient resources for the social sector only in the event of the successful use of European funds, since we will need more than €600 million for the envisaged programme in 2020. In the three annexes, the national programme analyses the key circumstances and factors affecting the functioning of the social protection system and also assesses the past period. For the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, it seems to us that a future annex defines indicators to monitor the achievement of the objectives of this programme. In our parties' view, there are conflicting indicators that set the threshold for poverty, as indicators need to be set realistically and in view of the actual needs of the population for more pressing living needs, such as housing, health, education and the like. In addition, it is particularly important for us to mention one of the key factors of influence, which is a demographic factor, so we agree that the text also highlights an active approach to achieving individual objectives: strengthening the social protection of the community in particular in the area of protection and assistance for older people, as well as other vulnerable groups. The strategy contains two implementation plans at national and regional level, each over a period of approximately four years. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we particularly point out the latter, which at regional level foresees the integration of objectives for those social protection services that are within the competence of local communities – this is to the greatest extent assistance at home, into municipal planning plans. We propose to take into account the warning of the municipalities of Slovenia, which in its letters drew attention to the implementation part of the national programme, namely the deadlines and competences for the preparation of the implementation plans and the envisaged funding, in particular with regard to the planned significant increase in the proportion of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Magus. Jana Jenko, Dessus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All hailing, especially to the ministers! The resolution sets out the basic starting points and principles for the development of the social protection system, the key objectives in this area, the network of public welfare services and programmes, and identifies how programmes are implemented and monitored. Key objectives, such as reducing the risk of poverty, improving availability and diversity and ensuring the accessibility and availability of services and programmes and improving the quality of services and assistance, are set to respond to the increase in social and demographic pressures and problems in the population, but the fact is that their implementation is questionable in terms of the funding provided. In doing so, we would like to further highlight the issue of the elderly in DeSUS. The elderly often face low incomes, making it a high risk of poverty. It is particularly high in elderly people living alone and especially in older women. It is a matter of real concern that almost every other woman over 65 years of age who lives alone has available income below the national poverty risk limit. As the older population grows, the need for long-term care services and other, older, adapted services that enable older people to live or improve their daily lives and environmental integration. For this reason, in the DeSUS Group we welcome the objectives set, such as the introduction of a single system of long-term care related to health and social services for all age groups in need of care. Services and programmes such as help at home, daytime forms of protection, short-term institutional accommodation and intergenerational centres are also essential for the elderly. However, it should also be borne in mind that the ageing population and the development of these services pose both a social and a health system with enormous challenges. Not only in relation to undercapacity and limited supply, but above all, this is a pressing issue of funding. The DeSUS Group will support the motion for a resolution by pointing out the right direction for the development of social protection. Given the situation in the country, however, we fear that the achievement of ambitious objectives is questionable and that priorities will therefore need to be set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments have not been tabled and the vote on the motion for a resolution will be held tomorrow, 24. 4., in the context of other votes. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to the transport laws in road transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, Minister Senko Plitčanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u76	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly, regulates three areas. Firstly, changes in the field of basic qualifications of drivers and code 95 due to the official reminder of the European Commission due to inadequate implementation of Directive 1073/2009. Secondly, a supplement to the system of subsidisation of monthly tickets for students and students. Thirdly, amendments to the law aimed at linking public line passenger transport, school transport and special line transport and the implementation of the economic public service of public line passenger transport. Something about the first area first. These are changes in the field of basic qualifications. These changes are necessary as the Republic of Slovenia has not foreseen the possibility of Member States applying a transitional period in implementing the Directive in order to reduce administrative procedures and costs for professional drivers when implementing Directive 1073/2009. The transitional period could only apply if the professional driver’s licence expired for the bus driver up to 10. 9. 2015 and for truck drivers up to 10. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Until that date, they may postpone the replacement of the document, the entry of code 95, which proves that the driver is being further trained and educated. The second package relates to the supplementation of the system of subsidisation of monthly tickets for students and students. The new system of subsidisation of monthly tickets for students and students was very successful in 2012. The results are very good as the number of students using public transport increased by 36% and by 50%, the number of students arriving at the place of education per week by public transport. The implementation of the new system of subsidised monthly tickets showed that the introduction of semi-annual and annual tickets would be very useful to reduce administrative procedures and wait for monthly ticket purchases. In addition, at the request of the Ombudsman, the criterion for the application of the right of distance from the place of education from 5 km to 2 km is changing, since these students and students paid a significantly more expensive monthly ticket to transport 3 km away from those travelling between 5 and 60 km away. The proposed change of criterion to 2 km is in line with the criterion in the Public Finance Balance Act to enforce the right to compensation for transport to work. And a little bit more about the third set. In addition, the proposal to amend and supplement the Road Transport Act also regulates certain areas of the public passenger economic service, allowing for a better integration of public line passenger transport with school transport and allowing the transport ministry to respond more quickly to the needs of residents and the wishes of local communities. The amendments allow the Ministry of Transport, without the consent of the concessionaire, but subject to the criteria allowing urban passenger transport to extend the line to neighbouring settlements, to grant concessions in accordance with European Regulation 1370/2007 for a reduced volume of transport up to 300,000 kilometres per year or up to one million euros per year, then to facilitate the integration of line transport with other modes of transport and to extend the current concession ratio until the end of 2015. The amendments adopted at the 6th meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space are also in line with these objectives and are supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It also supports the amendment to Article 4 of the Act, which allows for the integration of school and public line transport without any additional burden on local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 5th meeting, on 10 April 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly has decided to consider the proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the proposer, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Samo Omerzel explained that the amendment of the Road Transport Act regulates three areas. The first are changes in the field of basic qualifications of drivers and code 95 due to an official reminder from the European Commission due to inadequate implementation of Directive 2003/59. The second area regulated by the novel is the addition of a system for subsidising monthly tickets for students and students. The new system of subsidisation of monthly tickets for students and students was very successful in 2012. The results are very good, as the number of passengers has increased both between students and students. The third area is the changes aimed at linking public line passenger transport, school transport and special line transport, and the provision of an economic public passenger service. These changes will enable the transport ministry to respond more quickly to the needs of the inhabitants and the wishes of local communities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Sam Divac, explained that several comments were made in the written opinion on the explanations for which additional explanations or amendments should be included. He said that the amendments tabled to the amendment of the law mainly took into account their comments. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbic, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal of the law and has no comment on it. He further explained that the Commission considers the proposed solutions to be appropriate for the development of public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate, opposition Members opposed the amendment to Article 3 re-imposing a provision that line public transport could only be carried out by buses. They suggested that the amendment should not be supported, as they felt they were limiting competition, which is not in line with the European Union's recommendations. The representative of the applicant explained that the regime introduced by the amendment made sense, since otherwise transport standards on public line transport would be reduced. With regard to the amendment to Article 4, the proposer's representative stressed that this proposal is indeed about the introduction of a third form of station, as is known in many European countries. In the debate on the amendment to Article 8, the issue of combining school and line transport was raised on the basis of the concerns raised by most discussers in order to preserve the solution in the draft law. The members of the amendment committee did not accept Article 8. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11 and 24. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS to Article 8. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the following amendments: amendment to the amendment to Article 4, to the title of the Transitional and Final Provisions, amendment to Article 24 and amendment to Article 25 of the Law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated proposal for a law incorporating amendments has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u80	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, which we are considering today, introduces into the Slovenian legal order the content agreed on by the European Commission's Committee on Driving Licences on 27 May 2009. On 25 October 2012, the European Commission sent a letter of formal notice to the Republic of Slovenia in which there was a breach of the general agreement on transitional periods for obtaining a basic qualification with all Member States. While the Directive should have been transposed into the Slovenian legal order a year ago, until 14 December 2011. The second area covered by this novel is the addition of a system for subsidising monthly tickets for students and students, especially because the scheme for subsidising monthly tickets for students and students is successfully implemented in Slovenia. An important area is the changes aimed at linking public line passenger transport, school transport and special line transport, and the provision of an economic public service for public line passenger transport, and therefore they need to be amended accordingly as a result of new measures relating to the integration of public passenger transport. In a constructive debate at the Infrastructure and Space Committee, it has been pointed out that there are also environments where public transport exists, but the links are extremely rare and the school bus cannot accept other passengers because it violates the legal provisions and pays the penalties. We must therefore address the legal obstacles that solve the problems that have arisen and allow citizens to use public transport, which is more accessible and quality in time. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act also amends provisions relating to the reduction of the fine at risk for natural persons, legal persons, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and individuals who carry out the activity independently and their responsible persons, for certain traffic offences which have no major impact on traffic safety. We will therefore support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u82	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. The main objective of the bill is to comply with Directive 2003/59 of the European Community, with regard to the registration of code 95, driving licence or special driving licence. Slovenia was among the first Member States of the European Community to transpose the requirements of that Directive into the Slovenian legal order, but without the implementation of the transitional period, which is inconsistent with the other EU Member States, which have benefited from the transitional period. With the proposed amendment of the law, the Republic of Slovenia will set deadlines for drivers of other EU Member States to which code 95 must be entered in the driver's licence or in a special card. The second set of amendments concerns the system of subsidisation of student and student tickets, which was very well accepted among beneficiaries at the time of introduction. The proposal introduces semi-annual and annual tickets to reduce administrative barriers, and the holders of such tickets will also be entitled to free tickets in July and August. For reasons of greater operationality, it is also proposed to establish distance classes, which is the task of a sub-legislative act. The third set of amendments is aimed at linking transport in the field of public passenger transport. The possibility of connecting school transport and public line transport and special transport is open. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has €24.2 million in this year's budget for the economic public service of bus and coach transport, and the municipalities have almost $40 million for school transport, but the current legislation does not allow us these potentials. The bill reduces fines for natural and legal persons for certain traffic offences which do not have a major impact on traffic safety. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the draft law with our proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u84	All in attendance, all in attendance! We will also support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. So that I don't repeat everything that's already been said and my next speakers are probably going to repeat it the same way, I'm not going to shorten your time. We agree with the changes, and we think the law is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Ms. Kristina Valenčič, Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u86	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! In Slovenia, less and less people use public passenger transport. The professional public warns that road traffic is increasing, as well as fuel consumption, the number of accidents, congestions, environmental degradation and greenhouse and other health emissions of harmful gases. The increased use of public passenger transport would certainly ease any of these problems, if not solved. The fact is that rail and bus lines are being cut off, existing lines are both spatial and time-discoordinated, and there are increasing numbers of settlements that are completely inaccessible by means of public passenger transport. The existing public passenger transport system is increasingly inefficiencies and inefficient, the quality of stay and mobility is deteriorating for a large part of the population. The current poor economic situation can also be an opportunity for us to change our mobility practices in the field of public passenger transport. A more numerous use of public passenger transport requires both a root and a stick. The introduction of subsidised tickets for students and students last year was certainly a step in this direction. This time's novelty of the Road Transport Act brings solutions that are still a step further, particularly in the area of integration of public passenger transport. In addition to the urgent alignment with the EU directive on transitional periods for the entry of code 95 into driving licences and special cards for drivers of other EU Member States, this amendment brings some changes that have proved necessary in practice. Among them, it would highlight the simplification of the procedures for the conclusion of concession contracts for the execution of public passenger transport, in the exercise of the right to subsidised transport, the criteria of distance from the place of education from 5 to 2 kilometres are changed, the introduction of a semi-annual and annual ticket for subsidised transport, which will reduce administrative tasks for both beneficiaries and operators, the supervision of regular training of drivers and the reporting of infringements of transport companies in the national electronic register of road hauliers are also regulated accordingly. fines are also being reduced for certain traffic offences that have no major impact on traffic safety. However, the most important step towards improving the accessibility of people to public passenger transport is to bring about changes that make it possible to connect public line passenger transport with school transport and special line transport. We are confident in the Civil Code that the Minister will continue with activities that will help increase the use of public passenger transport, in particular the abolition of State-level taxi licences, the regulation of fairer co-financing of bus lines, the consolidation of all sources of financing and public passenger traffic management in one place, the promotion of the integration of municipalities and public passenger transport providers, the unification of timetables and the establishment of a portal where passengers will receive information all in one place and the promotion of a single passenger ticket project. Members and Members of the National Gazette will support the bill as well as the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez, the Fisherman of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u88	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! The Road Transport Act should be amended for one key reason because we have received from the European Commission an official reminder regarding the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on basic qualifications and the regular training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the transport of goods and passengers. In an official reminder, the European Commission has shown a violation of the 2009 general agreement on transitional periods which Slovenia has not properly transposed into its legal order. This amendment will thus set new deadlines for drivers of categories C, D and E, i.e. bus and truck drivers, from other Member States of the European Union entered in the driving licence code 095, for bus drivers by September 2015 and for truck drivers by September 2016. In addition to this urgent adjustment, the law also introduces some other amendments. The first concerns more effective inspection of the performance of regular training of drivers and lays down specific measures which, in individual cases, an inspector may immediately introduce irregularities. The second amendment, however, introduces a separate communication of information on the infringements of transport undertakings and operators in the national electronic register of road hauliers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we particularly welcome the reduction of the fines at risk for natural persons, legal persons and independent entrepreneurs and their responsible persons, of course because of certain traffic offences that have no major impact on traffic safety. It is also welcome to amend the provisions on subsidisation of public passenger transport, in particular the amendment of the discriminatory 114.b Article on the criterion of the distance of the beneficiary to the subsidy, which is reduced from 5 to 2 kilometres. At the same time, we also undermine the amendments tabled, since we believe that public line transport can be carried out if there are reasons, including with other passenger transport vehicles, not only by buses. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, as well as the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, welcome to all, even to the rest of us, of course! On behalf of the DeSUS Group, I would say that we will support this law. I think it would be right that I myself do not read the entire position of the Group because our position is consistent with or would repeat all the views that have already been expressed before me. I would point out only three things, which, according to our assessment, are important amendments to the bill, especially in relation to public passenger transport. It is then also important that public passenger transport is subsidised and we would also welcome a significant increase in the use of public transport by students and students. With this change, this discount has shown that public transport has become widely used and is positive. I would add that the parliamentary group will also support the amendment to Article 4, which refers to the amendment to the third paragraph, which reads as follows: "Except for the driver to stop outside bus stations and stations if the public line transport of passengers is combined with school transport." So, this seems very important to us, and as I announced, we will support this marriage and amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, New Slovenia's Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u92	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The new Road Transport Act has already been drafted by the previous government, with the aim of updating certain provisions under the European Directive, more equitable regulation of the right to subsidised transport for students and students and some other improvements to existing legislation. In this regard, mention should be made in particular of the new provision which allows for a combination of school and public line transport. In practice, this means that passengers in places where public transport exists, but the links are poor or rare, could also benefit from a school bus route as a transport. This was not possible until now, and even though the bus was half empty, it was not allowed to carry other passengers in addition to the school’s youth. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the new solution is good and, above all, practical, because it will save many worries and time. However, it may not be necessary to point out that the new government coalition objected to such a solution, and it also opposed the provision allowing public line transport by buses to be carried out by other passenger transport vehicles. Their argument is that the possibility of introducing other means of transport would result in a drop in the standard on public line transport. Given the current economic situation in Slovenia and the fact that some bus lines are becoming increasingly unprofitable, such opposition is somewhat illogical. One wonders what is more important, that passengers can ride in nice buses and the timetable is less rare, or more importantly, that a liner exists and in more remote areas of Slovenia is concerned that people have even the possibility of transport by public means of transport. In Novi Slovenija, it seems essential to us in particular that there is a line connection, although it does not reach the highest quality standard. We believe that the interest of public transport users should be given priority over the interests of the carriers providing these services. Moreover, it is not bad if competition between carriers is also possible in this area. We will continue to support the amendment to Article 3, and we will also support the amendment as a whole as a result of other improvements to the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 22. 4. 2013 We have the amendments to Articles 3 and 4 and first, I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, and I am asking you to report to the debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? So far, all I see is Mr. Guilty who wants to discuss it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present. We have tabled an amendment to Article 3, given that the present solution in this law is limited in the second indent to the obligation that public line passenger transport in road transport can only be carried out by buses. We believe that this dictatorship is too narrow and that it prevents some competition, so we propose that in the third paragraph of this paragraph this lesson should be changed, which speaks of the fact that line public transport can only be carried out by buses. We suggest that this doctrine be deleted. In the fourth paragraph, we are also modifying the existing dictatorship, which speaks of the fact that additional public passenger traffic is also carried out by buses, we are proposing a new dictatorship that this word "buses" should be replaced by the word "vehicles for the transport of passengers". We believe that this amendment, however, makes this article more broad and allows more opportunities for potential public passenger passenger transport operators to gain this possibility of implementation, because if this is essentially reduced to buses, this is a limiting factor. I think that this makes the law, which is in the process, in some ways also better and makes it possible to compete more. The fourth indent, which enables additional transport solutions to be passenger transport vehicles, also extends the possibility of competitiveness in this area. In general, we also support the law in our parliamentary group. I think there have been many things on the committee that have been set up, even harmonised and adopted certain amendments. As far as Article 3 and the amendment are concerned, I propose that you listen to this amendment, allowing the possibility to be extended in terms of open opportunities to obtain concessions for the implementation of public passenger transport. It's the intention of this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 3 or the amendment? If not, we are moving on to Article 4 and I am putting this article into discussion, together with the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. I ask those present whether anyone wants to discuss this article and the amendment or amendments. Mr. Guilty. Anyone else? Mr. Bigger. Allowing you to log in to the debate, please log in. Mr Krivec and Mr Veliki will discuss this round. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. There was also a lot of debate on Article 48 and Article 4 in the paper, and the article also remained open in some way. We have proposed an amendment that preserves the dictatorship that the Ministry has basically drawn up. I therefore propose that you support this amendment, because we believe that the problems of these stops have somehow been solved for the stations introduced through the amendment of the previous law, where it has been possible to mark stations on vehicles as well. On the other hand, the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats is in some way going in the direction that was discussed on the Committee. I am not sure that this explanation, which is in this amendment, holds, in particular I have doubts as to how these buses will be labelled in the combined system, because I do not think that this is defined in the other legislation governing transport. Otherwise, this amendment, in the event that our amendment is unvoted, would in principle also be supported, because it goes in terms of resolution in accordance with the debate that has been held by all parliamentary groups and also corrects the inconsistencies that have been in the previous amendment. However, I still have a problem with this way of not getting into trouble again, that we have something written in the law, and because of the other legal regulations, this matter is not operational, especially because it is not defined and there is no explanation for the way in which combined transport is carried out, indicating who it is, in what way. I don't think that's settled in any other legislation so far. So far, public and school transports have been separated, and as far as combinations are concerned, I do not think there is anything written in these regulations so far. Therefore, this explanation is also that a special marking of these places is not necessary, since in such cases the vehicle will also have a school transport code. This matter may be somewhat misplaced and I am afraid that it will again lead to a problem of implementation in practice, because if school transport is not combined, if it is public transport, it does not have this mark, but in other legislation I have not seen that it would be properly resolved and that it would not lead to incorrect interpretations in practice. In principle, I agree with the content of the resolution, but before this amendment is supported, it should also clarify the way of labelling and where it is specified, because if there is no such thing in the other legislation, it will be a dead letter on paper again and it will not be feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože the Great, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. In the discussion at the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, most Members supported the proposal that it was essential to support the proposal for combined line and school transport. While some Members objected, as has already been said, because school transport is subject to specific requirements for carriers. In the number of passengers who will be in cases where this will exceed the number of seats available on buses, we have certain dilemmas and concerns. However, since this amendment has been voted on, we believe that there is no need for additional markings of stops outside bus stations, and we propose an amendment of the coalition to Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bevk. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The third paragraph of Article 4 of the Act, which we are amending, speaks of the fact that, exceptionally, the driver may stop outside bus stations and bus stations if the public line transport of passengers is combined with school transport, in places identified and identified by the local community. Thus was the amendment to the amended bill, and we, by amendment to Article 4, propose to delete the part of the sentence, which reads as follows, "... in the places designated and marked by the local community." Thus, after the new third paragraph, it will read: "Except for the driver to stop outside bus stations and bus stations if the public line transport of passengers is combined with school transport." I think we have sufficiently explained in the proposal of this amendment. In fact, when combined with public line transport and school transport, the driver may stop outside the bus station and bus stop, following the requirement to ensure the safest way to get schoolchildren and their safe return from school home. In settlements where children do not have safe school routes, their arrival at a bus station or station would be a greater risk than stopping outside those places. Therefore, we also consider that the applicant’s explanation was that there is no need for a special marking of these cities, since in such cases the vehicle will also have a school transport code and, as such, be protected by the rules under the Road Traffic Rules Act. This is sort of a third type of station, but a special label would not be necessary and there would also be no additional costs in this regard. It must be said, however, that from one stop to another, or the bus route itself, is several miles away, and if children were allowed from their home to such a stop, they would be in greater danger than if the bus stopped where the child came from home to that main road. In fact, this solution helps to increase the safety of children both on their way to school and on their return home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thanks again. I am pleased that this amendment has taken account of what we have also suggested on the Committee that special markings, for the first time, cannot be made because a special marking on the vehicle has already been given to local communities. That's what they're saved with. I agree with the content debate held by my colleague Bevk, but I would point out once again that we do not have a problem with this acquittal as well, but that the explanation that you have is that there is no need for this special marking, but we agree with this second part of the explanation, because in such cases the vehicle will also have a school transport code, but I do not know if it will drink water, because there is no such combined transport in the Road Traffic Rules Act and there will be a problem in a particular situation with one-fifth or one-tenth of a relationship that will be carried out as a combination, but remains public as regards how to mark this bus in these cases, since the Road Traffic Rules Act does not know this; the same is the Regulation on the conditions that vehicles and drivers of vehicles transporting children. Neither do they refer to any combined transport in this Regulation. Therefore, I would point out that we will not accept again something that will not be implemented in practice later on and will be a problem. I therefore pointed out that, before we confirm this, the rest of the legislation, notably the Road Traffic Rules Act, which does not know the combination, and the rules on the labelling of these vehicles, should also be examined. However, we probably all agree on the content, and it is our desire to find a solution that will be in line with the rest of the legislation and that will also allow it to be implemented without writing anything down, and then it will be a bad will, because other legislation will not be able to implement it in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a debate? Clearly, there is no longer a desire for debate, so we conclude. However, amendments will be decided in accordance with the timetable tomorrow in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is a draft resolution on the national programme of road transport value for the period 2013 to 2022. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. Ms Tina Brecelj, Secretary of State, has the floor for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u104	Nicely greeted! Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The motion for a resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2013 to 2022 addresses an area that we need to address with particular care. Since the beginning of 1954, when we started to keep accurate data on the consequences of traffic accidents in Slovenia, we have recorded more than 23 000 400 dead and more than 500 000 injured. True, the most tragic years are far behind, but every disaster with the worst consequences always opens up new wounds in the family and society. The only right answer is Vision 0, which requires that there will be no fatalities and serious bodily harm due to the consequences of traffic accidents. Vision 0 is still a vision at national level, as we are aware that it is not easy to regulate everything in order to achieve it. However, it is no longer utopian at local or even at the level of statistical regions. It is essential that we be aware and that this is how we act that everyone contributes to greater security in his or her field of work and expertise. In the decade that has passed, we have been successful. Slovenia was among the nine countries of the European Union that fully achieved the goal of reducing the number of casualties caused by traffic accidents by 50% between 2001 and 2010. We have succeeded because we have connected measures in various areas into a pretty good system and we have had a lot of support from all bodies and organisations, local communities, civil society organisations and also the media. In the past decade, we have entered as one of the least secure countries and courageously pursued the goal of reducing the number of dead by 50%, which seemed difficult at the time, but we have succeeded. And now that we have a new ten-year period ahead of us, we can only set ourselves the same ambitious goal of approaching the most secure countries of the European Union. The proposed national programme foresees that the number of deaths in traffic accidents in 2022 would not exceed 70 and that the number of serious injuries would not exceed 430. If we say this differently, we commit ourselves to achieving within 10 years the level of security known to Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom in the European Union. The resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2013 to 2022 is a strategic document dealing with road transport safety policy and professionally demanding and safety-related problems in road safety in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of road infrastructure, vehicles, transport education and lifelong learning, the health care of participants, supervision and all the most important risk factors in the target groups. The proposal for a national programme was prepared by the Transport Safety Agency. The comments submitted by representatives of different fields of expertise and civil society organisations were taken into account. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the successful goal of the national programme, which has expired, from parents, educators, teachers and teachers, all supervisory authorities, doctors and firefighters, road and vehicle experts, a crowd of volunteers in the municipal councils for prevention and training, civil society organisations, journalists and the media, and, of course, all individuals who have contributed their share to the mosaic of security. At the same time, thanks are also due to the obligation to take measures and actions for the new decade as well as to invite all, including you, honourable Members and Members, to carry out equally professionally, responsibly and vigorously the measures envisaged in the new national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as the working body of the mother. Mr Sam Bevek, Chairman of the Committee, I ask for a presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! At its 5th meeting, on 10 April, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2013 to 2022 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Samo Omerzel provided an additional explanation of the motion for a resolution. He pointed out that road safety is an area that we need to address with particular attention, as any victim or serious injury is severely affecting the lives of the family and friends of the victim and the society as a whole. He stressed that Slovenia had been very successful in implementing the previous national road safety programme. The objectives of the motion for a resolution remain ambitious, following the demands of the profession and people's expectations that there will not be so many new tragedies due to traffic accidents, while at the same time following the European Union's goal of reducing the number of dead on the road by half in this decade. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Katarina King, pointed out that the main comments to the motion for a resolution referred to the definition of operators in the implementation of the national programme, in particular the way in which the powers of the National Assembly were regulated, which was mainly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, while at the same time the entire document will be subject to precise language and editorial corrections before publication in the Official Journal. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission supports the motion for a resolution and targeted areas and proposed measures to increase road safety on Slovenian roads. He pointed out that the Commission positively assessed the decision of the National Assembly, which in its first reading rejected the amendment to the Drivers Act, which envisaged the abolition of the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, as it was a key vehicle for the implementation of road safety measures. In the debate, the members of the Committee expressed their unanimous support for the motion for a resolution and considered it adequately prepared and expressed their single support for the amendments tabled, which address some of the shortcomings highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It has been pointed out that fatalities and serious injuries due to traffic accidents not only affect the victims and their owners, but also the whole society in various ways, so it is right that the objectives of reducing the number of dead and severely injured in traffic accidents are ambitiously set. In connection with the most frequent causes of traffic accidents, it was noted that state and regional roads are in worrying condition. It was called upon to maintain at least the existing situation in all areas in the current times when financial resources are lacking or to ensure that the situation on these roads does not deteriorate further. Otherwise, the share of road accidents will increase due to poor conditions and road management. As regards the maintenance of roads, it was also noted that there were major problems facing local communities in maintaining local roads due to lack of money, and therefore an invitation was made to the Ministry to seek to provide municipalities with additional financial resources. The Committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS on 4, 5. Chapter 7, Chapter 8 and Chapter 9. On the basis of Article 171 and subject to the reasonable application of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the chapters of the motion for a resolution jointly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated motion for a resolution, which includes amendments, is prepared on the basis of Article 171 and subject to the reasonable application of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The updated motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u108	Hello again. The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the targeted area and proposed measures to increase transport safety on Slovenian roads. In Slovenia, about 70 per million people die in traffic accidents, while in the most developed countries, for example, Sweden, the Netherlands has about 35 deaths per million inhabitants, which is our goal only in 2022. Noting that we are already late in changing the strategic documents on road safety and that we have not made any progress in this area in the last two years, among other things, more people have died on roads in traffic accidents than in the same period last year, it is imperative to start operational measures immediately. Reducing the number of deaths in traffic accidents in 2022 to a maximum of 35 per million people and reducing the number of serious injuries to a maximum of 230 per million people will be difficult to achieve without adequate financial and human resources and better participation of responsible and good practices. We are also guided by a supplementary motion for a resolution that mentions that this objective can be achieved if, on average, the number of deaths of 6 to 7 participants per year is reduced after 2011 by 2022. In order to achieve this objective, the supplementary motion for a resolution also sets out three scenarios. It follows from the motion for a resolution that a systemic source of funding should be provided for the implementation of the national programme at local level. At the local level, only budgetary resources are available, but they are already so well-fed. In some targeted areas, the resolution's complementary proposal places the municipality's actions, municipal road infrastructure, road infrastructure security and control in a self-governing local community. Others include the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries among bikers by 50%, reduce the number of road accidents involving pedestrians and reduce the impact of these accidents by 50% and reduce the number of deaths and injuries at the level crossings by 50%. The SDS proposes that municipalities as well as the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia are included in all these areas, as it sees no reason why only municipalities would be involved in certain activities as carriers of the implementation of measures, and in others only the two representative associations of municipalities. The Slovenian Democratic Party notes that it will be difficult to ensure the safety of road infrastructure in the future due to the lack of funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the measures and objectives that the resolution brings, and we will therefore vote in favour of its adoption. The safety of people in traffic is extremely important and every victim on the road is a victim too. It is important to continuously reduce the number of victims of traffic accidents, so it gives us with hope that in Slovenia we have managed to halve the number of victims due to the consequences of traffic accidents by half between 2001 and 2010. That is why we also support the so-called Vision 0, which means the long-term goal of no more dead and no more severely damaged by traffic accidents. In a relatively successful decade, however, we must not forget that we were far from the target set in 2007 and one of the least secure members of the European Union. The shift took place when we handed over key sections of the motorway in transport, when we made it very clear by law and implementation that driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs and wildling in settlements where schools and children are unacceptable when we listened to civil society about the requirements for greater security and received media support when we brought together professional potentials in the field of infrastructure, education, health and volunteer work, the work of state authorities and local communities. We need to be aware of this, because in the new decade there will be no more simple, cheap and quick solutions. In order to be able to make a new effort and achieve the expected results, we may have to talk about the cost or social loss due to the consequences of disasters. In 2011, the social cost of accidents in Slovenia was estimated at €636 million and around € 130 billion in the European Union. The resolution on the national transport safety programme has no recorded financial implications. However, the real source of investment and preventive work is the evidence of the lower costs and damage caused by their consequences. If we ensure such a systemic approach, we will announce that we understand the exceptional importance they have for the safety of the roads of the local community, the Councils for Road Traffic Prevention and Education and other civil society organisations, which certainly deserve the highest recognition for their humanitarian work. In March 2010, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution declaring the Transport Safety Decade 2011-2020. The main objective of the action is to stabilise and reduce the number of victims of traffic accidents by half. This will be achieved by increased activities, both at national, regional and global level. In Ljubljana, on 11 May 2011, the most visible representatives of the state and civil society signed a solemn undertaking entitled the Decade for Greater Road Traffic Safety 2011-2020. The proposed document that we are considering today is our commitment to achieving the objectives set, and I want it to be a success. As the Group of Social Democrats has said, it will support a resolution on road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič, Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. Road safety is certainly an area that concerns all citizens. All actors in transport must contribute to greater transport safety. This issue is being given increasing attention in both Slovenia and the European Union. Although measures have so far been effective, the number of road fatalities in the European Union remains very high. There are 1.3 million accidents a year, killing 43,000 people and hurting 1.7 million. According to the police, traffic safety in Slovenia was best in 2012 than independence. 130 people died in traffic accidents and 7.8% less than in 2011. Although measures have been taken effectively so far, the number of deaths remains high. The main cause of mortality is inadequate behaviour of road users; speed, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, fatigue, misuse of safety belts and helmets. Slovenia managed to halve the number of road fatalities by implementing the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme 2007-2011 by the end of 2010. The results show that joint activities should be continued. This, however, is the basis for the national road safety programme that we are considering today. This is a strategic document dealing with national security policy and the most pressing problems in road safety in Slovenia. It continues with the so-called Vision 0, so nothing dead or badly damaged by traffic accidents. Such a vision, which is completely self-evident in human society, requires a change in the thinking and behaviour of both system creators and all transport actors. The programme envisages a number of measures to reduce the number of deaths in traffic accidents by half over the next decade. The objective is therefore: in 2012 there should be no more than 70 fatalities. In Slovenia we also pay special attention to the most vulnerable groups in transport, children and the elderly. The joint participation of all actors, from parents, teachers, police officers, civil society, gives relevant results and can be an example for other areas, as Slovenia as a society needs to change. Let's say in the area of attitude towards self-care, environmental protection, healthy living habits. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the motion for a resolution because we support all the efforts that lead to a reduction of the tragedies on our roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today, on our parliamentary benches, there is a motion for a resolution on the national road safety programme for the next decade. Road safety is an area in which we have made a major shift in Slovenia in recent times. The most eloquent evidence of this is from the data itself. If there were 293 fatalities in 2007 there were fewer than half that in last year, according to police 130, which is still too much, of course. I'm talking about moving. In doing so, I am not just referring to the construction of the motorway cross, but also to the modernised state roads and the greater role of transport education and the awareness of all actors in transport, from the youngest to the oldest. As well as the police's activities with numerous preventive actions, last but not least the changes in transport legislation, including criminal legislation, because they have also done their part in increased fines and penalties and in the system of criminal justice. In the People's Party, we are particularly proud that a number of our ministers led the transport sector during a significant period and with great enthusiasm and determination overcame obstacles on the way to the establishment and construction of the highway cross. This has certainly contributed most to the reduction of traffic accidents, and thus to the reduction of the number of deaths and injuries. Regardless of the successes mentioned above, we must not be satisfied with what has been achieved. For our roads to be safe, we need not only to build them but also to rebuild them. The vision 0 introduced by the new resolution and the strategic objective of up to 70 dead a year are only feasible if further effective action is taken in a number of areas. In addition to building and rehabilitating roads, there are many other targeted activities of the competent ministry, police, health care, when it comes to treating addiction and or rehabilitating victims of accidents, preventive checks, especially of sick and elderly drivers; here is justice, in particular, a shift from prison sentences and high fines in the direction of a beneficial social work of accident drivers, especially in the direction of working with victims and property of victims of traffic accidents. In particular, I would like to highlight the social costs of accidents. In 2011, 141 dead and 9 thousand 673 injured amounted to EUR 636 million, amounting to more than half of this year's budget deficit. Therefore, we should not, in particular, care about our roads, which are key to transport safety. In doing so, I should only recall yesterday's almost alarming data presented by the Road Directorate, that at least half of the state roads are in very poor condition and that we are driving through very dangerous sections. As they said, over the past years, we have on average restored 97 km of roads annually, and at this rate it would take more than 60 years to restore everything. Although they should restore at least four kilometres of roads annually, there would be an additional €200 million needed in addition to the current €155 million. This is particularly my point because the objectives of the resolution, which we want to halve within 10 years the number of victims of road accidents, without money and without investment, especially in road renewal, will not be achieved. Despite the burning crisis, I am convinced that in this area, therefore, roads that are the cornerstone of road safety must not be saved. The social cost of this saving is too high. We'll pay the bills ourselves. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will, of course, support the resolution, this strategic document of national road safety, and we want all stakeholders to make every effort to achieve the objectives, in particular to preserve human lives and the health of road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! There have already been a lot of data on traffic safety in our country, yet let me add some numbers myself. In 2011, 141 people died on our roads and just under 9 thousand 700 were injured. The cost of accidents in 2009 amounted to EUR 1 billion. In 2011, more than 30,000 100 people died on the roads and more than one and a half million were injured. The social costs of the worst impact of EU traffic accidents in 2010 amounted to around € 130 billion. Slovenia is approaching the European average by the number of people who have died in traffic accidents. By 3 April of this year, 24 people had already died in traffic accidents and 18 were in traffic at the same time last year; 78 were seriously injured this year and 152 during the same period last year. This data shows that with road safety in Slovenia we cannot be satisfied, as there has been no significant progress in the last two years. That is why the national programme, which should have been adopted in 2012, is all the more important and, above all, operational measures must be taken as soon as possible. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that it is precisely because of the severe consequences that any lack of respect for road safety can cause, that particular consideration should be given to the consequences of traffic accidents, as they may have an inconceivable impact on individuals, families and society as a whole. Taking into account the characteristics and complexity of road transport and road safety, which requires interdisciplinary systematic action, on the one hand, as well as new financial burdens, institutional changes and additions, on the other hand, there is also a problem of ensuring effective management of the programme at all levels. Since the motion for a resolution is a strategic document that seeks to cover all those responsible for transport safety and delegates the objectives and tasks of achieving these objectives, we support it in the DeSUS Group. Transport safety education is one of the main points of education programmes. Transport education should be started in the youngest, in kindergartens, and especially within families. Transport safety education is also defined within education programmes, which we welcome in the DeSUS Group. The area of primary education includes a novelty, namely, selective content in the field of road safety, for which enforcement must be pursued by all those responsible, of course within the framework of their competences. Today, in primary schools, we do not have the choice of content to cover road safety, but they are present in secondary education programmes. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has launched an initiative, together with the Institute of Education as a professional provider of teaching programmes and teaching content and other experts, to approach the establishment of such an object in primary schools. We support this initiative. We must also remember young people aged 16 to 22 who are particularly exposed to transport because they experience a very special period, the consequences of which are often reflected. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in a larger number. [[...]] The DeSUS Group agrees with the resolution and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u118	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The proposed resolution on the national road safety programme is a strategic document that represents an ambitious objective: no fatalities and no serious injuries due to traffic accidents. Although in Slovenia, unfortunately, we are still very far from this goal, it is likely to be achieved by systematic preventive approaches and by changing the mentality of all long-term road users. In this context, the resolution is a document that, by defining the current state of affairs, objectives and measures, provides the basis for sustainable and integrated development in road safety. This year's data on deaths in traffic accidents in Slovenia is not encouraging and exceeds the number of deaths in the same period last year. The most common causes of fatal accidents for many years have included three key reasons: the first is unadjusted speed, the second incorrect direction of driving and the third failure to comply with the rules of advantage. That is why I call on all of us from this place to be aware of our responsibilities as road users to others, and we also take this responsibility. We must also adopt the thought that we can do the most for the safety of ourselves and others, of course, by respecting traffic rules and by being patient with others. Because the police can take such a strong interest in traffic safety and carry out a wide range of preventive actions, but if we do not change the way we think, as well as the style of driving and behaviour in traffic, then all these preventive security measures will not help us in any way. One of the options that we highlighted in New Slovenia as an opportunity to reduce the risk of road accidents, however, is greater use of public transport. We are therefore seeking to increase transport by public means of transport in NS, as we are contributing, in addition to economic and practicality, to reducing harmful emissions and thus protecting the environment for future generations. In Nova Slovenija, we view the resolution and the preventive programmes put in place as good, so we support them and at the same time hope that Vision 0 will get closer as soon as possible and that one day we will also implement them. You know, every life counts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2013 to 2022 is a strategic document dealing with road transport safety policy, technical and safety problems in road safety in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013 to 2022. Road safety is one of the basic qualities of the transport system. In 2011, 30,000 people died on the roads in the European Union, which is the same as the number of people in the medium city, we lost 141 people in Slovenia this year. The estimated social cost of accidents in 2011 was €636 million. Traffic accidents forever mark the lives of those involved in them as causes, accidents, indirectly involved, or as victims. Often, a car accident is the cause of severe distress for the person and his loved ones. Therefore, Vision 0 requires changes in the thinking and behaviour of transport system designers, operators and road users, and is a human long-term goal for fewer dead and severely injured persons to be in traffic accidents on the roads. The measures taken to achieve the objectives of the national programme are divided into seven main areas: safe road infrastructure, safety of motor vehicles, transport education and lifelong learning, medical care of accidents, supervision, safety and health at work, and assistance to victims and owners of accidents. The urgent groups of measures that may produce favourable results in a short time include: increasing the use of safety belts and child restraint systems in motor vehicles, reducing driving speed, preventing alcohol abuse, illicit drugs and other psychoactive substances in traffic, and ensuring pedestrian and child safety. The common objective of the Member States is to preserve as many lives and halves the number of victims and severely injured persons as possible in road transport by 2020. This number means that more than 35 per million people should not die on Slovenian roads by 2022 and fewer than 230 per million people should be severely injured. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled and I inform you that we will vote on the motion for a resolution tomorrow in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 8. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation, please the Secretary of State, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. Hello, Members of Parliament! You have before you a proposal for a new Law on Criminal Procedure, which pursues two objectives. The first is to strengthen the effectiveness of the criminal procedure by removing administrative obstacles both on the part of the police, the State Prosecutor's Office and, in particular, the courts. The second objective is to strengthen legal certainty by correcting technical and editorial shortcomings in the legal text, correcting inconsistencies in certain procedural institutions and with less difficult substantive improvements to individual legal provisions. The CAPL proposal does not contain major systemic changes, nor does it introduce new legal institutions, but rather upgrades and refines existing solutions or adapts them to new knowledge and defines them more precisely. In fact, there are a number of different solutions that are not directly related, but are necessary, according to our assessment, because they will improve the effectiveness of the functioning of the national authorities and strengthen legal certainty and consequently ensure a higher level of respect for the rule of law. Let me add a position on the proposed amendments. Although the use of the criminal order should be extended to ensure a more efficient organisation of the work of the courts, I agree with the proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, as I assess that the question of extending the powers to issue the criminal order has been considered meaningfully in the context of the preparation of the next amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. This will ensure that this issue is addressed in a comprehensive manner, taking into account all the rules of nomotechnics. However, I do not support the amendments tabled by members of the SDS party to return the recording and direct transmission of the main hearings and the digital record to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act-L. It follows from the opinions of the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice and the criminal sanction of the Slovenian Judicial Society that the professional public does not support any of the above-mentioned solutions and that it follows from the opinion of the Council of State. The relevant arguments put forward in the expert debate against the implementation of the said solutions are both systemic and implementing in nature. In general, I think that the proposal of the novel is well prepared and would make sense for us to adopt it. Finally, I propose that a third consideration of the draft amendment be held at the same meeting if amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal are adopted in the second reading and if more than a third of the Members present do not object, as provided for in Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. The Chairman of this committee and the rapporteur are not here today, so we are moving on to further consideration. The assembly held a general discussion at its 11th meeting on the proposal for a law, and therefore there is no presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups at this meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2013 It is said that we will discuss paragraphs 5, 8, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34, 37 or so. In doing so, I would like to say that the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 5, 8, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34 and 37 are substantively linked, so we will discuss them together. Not to repeat all these articles, I am putting together all the articles and the amendments of the SDS Group to this Article. Someone wants to talk about it. I can see that it's a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Please sign up. Two panellists, Mr Gorenak and Mr Brulc, have been reported. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak. They'll technically arrange for time to run for Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I think it also makes sense, Madam Vice-President, that we are discussing all amendments relating to one and the same, in fact, to two things, and it is difficult to discuss individual amendments. I can fully say that Slovenia needs a new CAP. We have just before us a correction, the L novel, as we say, but I am personally happy, basically happy, for a fundamental reason, because it was largely based on the initiative of the Ministry of Interior and Police in an agreement with the then Ministry of Justice and Public Administration and was fully aligned with the so-called professional public. In fact, the essence of this novel is to remove administrative obstacles. Today in the CAP, we have prescribed procedures on the one hand, and this is supposed to be eliminated, which in fact impose on the police and prosecutors, if I make it very simple, certain administrative procedures for the theft of chickens – equal to murder. With this novel, we are putting an end to this and I am pleased that this will be resolved, and we know that there is also agreement to support these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which I intend to support myself. In this positive performance, however, I cannot pass on some matters, and the Secretary of State has mentioned that our amendments concern only two things. Firstly, it is that the records of court hearings would no longer be copied as in the 18th century, but would be electronic. And secondly, to enable the transfer of hearings. It's enabled. That doesn't mean they'd be tolerated. These are the only two points to which our amendments relate, and I regret that the committee has drawn this amendment. On the one hand, we are talking about 71 judges in Europe, 71 judges per 100,000 population in Slovenia, 45. During the time of the great financial and economic crisis, when both the government, the previous, present ones, as we are here looking for and making a number of efforts to reduce costs, we were able to hear yesterday a representative of the People's Party, who very well cited some basic data. Slovenians pay 89 euros for one judge in the budget, while European citizens 41. This means that the Slovenians pay once more to the judge for the operation of the judiciary. We all know that there is something in this court — if I said something was wrong, I would be very polite, but I must say that something is disastrously wrong, that something is very rotten there. This needs to be made very clear. Then it is difficult for a man to understand that the National Assembly, including the Ministry, is being removed from the profession. Yeah, who is this profession?Oh, my God! Who is this profession?Oh, my God! These sections are judges who spend €89 from the state budget instead of €41. And this profession wants to write records in physical form! That means you stop the main hearing, the judge dictates, and she's the key. This was what they did in the days of Mary Teresa. Even 20 years or more ago, when there were no computers, it was also understandable. Today, when computer technology, and everyone else, I will say, the media, through which data can be transmitted for free, and we will probably give for a CD board or CD key, if any of the beneficiaries need such a record, we will probably give less than a lady for the spy, those salads that the secretary prescribes in court. No! No! You see, the profession requires the 18th century, and we say we must respect the profession. I'm sorry we're falling for this kind of profession. I'm sorry we're falling for this kind of profession. In our previous term here we have heard former Minister Zalar, who, at every step of the way, said how ideal everything is in the judiciary. The current government or former government, the current government or the same minister, I think it represents a more realistic situation. I also believe him in yesterday's performance, when he said very clearly: "The mechanisms for the good work of the judiciary are. The judges don't want to do that." He made a very good distinction between the judicial and legislative or executive branches of power, and he said they were independent. Of course they're independent, but we write their laws, we make their laws. If they want to live in the 18th century and write records on their hands or on a typewriter, a computer, whatever, then let's at least be that many of us, and let's say that there are 21st century and we have recording devices that are a lot cheaper than the paper they use there. This will have no impact on the terribly independent profession, but it will help to raise the standard of action and that Slovenians will pay 41 euros or less instead of 89 euros, because the EU average is 41. We could be down, we could have at 25 and not at 89. This does not mean that such a provision and these amendments are interfering with an independent branch of power called the judiciary. No, no, no. We don't care if we tell them to get keys and CDs instead of paper, and they'll be able to do these things normally. The second set of our amendments is going on tape. I must say, when we adopted this law in government, I supported it, of course, including this part that concerns recording. I'm always ready to listen to the profession, as they call it. In this area, at the time of the government hearing, the profession has to say one smart thing to this day. This is the part that relates to witness A, which witness B is not supposed to hear, because she could adjust her testimony in a direct transfer. I understand the argument of the profession here. In that previous amendment for writing records, so to speak, no, of course not. This problem could be solved, too. We're not just saying that direct transmission is enabled, but it's possible that things are being recorded. What is this profession afraid of? This section is afraid that those who pay 89 euros will see what is happening in the courts. That is why the amendments are opposed. You can't do what happened to me ten years ago and a few years ago when you're invited to court at 9:00, and they say thank you for coming, wait outside and wait outside until half past half past. You take a vacation in the middle, and you don't trust the bathroom or the lunch. This is the organisation of the functioning of the judicial branch of power that could be affected if we went to support these amendments. I suggest you support them, and then by the third reading or the third reading, we arrange that direct transmission in a way that will satisfy the profession. The professions, therefore, will never satisfy the judges with this, nor will we influence them, as I said before, on their independence if we tell them to record the main proceedings, but they do not copy the performances of individual witnesses or accused persons or anyone. Last time we heard on the committee, on this very subject, on the subject of recording, an argument. There will be a representative of the Bar. At least that's how he introduced himself. Please! A representative of the Bar has nothing to do with the National Assembly as an expert. In no case since he is interested that the criminal procedure will be as long as possible. Because he's gonna cash as much as he can! Then why do we even invite him to a committee like this? It's totally out of touch. Let's give him a chance to make better money. He said there that there was an urgent need for copying because the Witnesses spoke in their language and then others did not understand them. Please! English is also spoken in the language, and those who are not English or British understand it at least as much as anyone in the language does. This cannot be an argument, but it is given by a man who also represents the Bar Association! Clear! Because he looks in his pocket and sees that he needs some more. This is a clear matter, and it is against such solutions or against such solutions in the law. In short, I urge you to support the amendments. Although the law, if you do not support the amendment, we intend to support it because it brings a lot of good, especially from the point of view of decommissioning both the police, the criminals and the prosecutors. And the law is basically that without these amendments, it has my support, and I think it's right to accept it. However, the Ministry somehow calls, I expect, I want, however you want to prepare that other novel or the new CAP. I think that the new CAP is already quite ready at the Ministry and that it could still be accepted. And I'll be particularly happy if that's where the determination that we had in our coalition contract is, I don't know what's in the present, that the trial lasts six, plus three, plus three and not ten years, but one year. This would probably be best if we copied it in the upcoming CAP. I hope that's what you'll be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u126	Your Honor! It was easy to say very hard words about the judiciary, that it was very rotten to live in the 18th century and so on. If that's what the Slovenian judiciary deserves, then God help us. In the general debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, we voted against the conclusion that the law was suitable for further consideration. In particular, because it is not true, the professional public has not been harmonised in the part that has been glued to this law by the government on its way to parliament. And there are some important facts, where the professional public has not cooperated, so we do not speak or claim that the professional public is aware and agrees with these content. In our view, as well as these additional amendments that have come into the document that is 7. 1. Appeared in Parliament that these have substantially changed the content of this bill. We are really talking here about those amendments – to repeat them today, the amendments, but at the time the articles were in there – to the 5, 8, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34 and 37 articles tabled today by the SDS Group and not supported by the Social Democrats. If you'll let me explain, why not? One is recording records. It is no problem to record the debate, let's imagine how long it will take. And there was a saying that a dialect and something like that is not a problem — and what a problem it is! In the end, the judge will still have to highlight the essence of this very long recording in order to allow the hearing to proceed. So, right, we can record the sound record of the debate, but someone will still have to write what's essential. This will be required by lawyers, and so will the affected parties. And who's gonna do that? We also want to relieve the courts by making the judge the sole and chief judge in the Chamber. What is he going to call the next party's hallway in the courtroom? Will he care how targeted the cameras are? Video of the trial – I ask you if we know how many people are employed because we are here today on video and we are recording these discussions, which are then recorded. Also the equipment of all the courtrooms with all this technique – I ask you if anyone has looked at the cost. Today, it has been mentioned that it can be difficult for those outside to know exactly what is going on in the hall and to prepare for it. Also tweeting – we know which one of the important politicians sent messages, tweeted and made fun of justice and so on during the debate. This has to be prevented. This leads to anarchy, not to saving and a better part of the courts. The talk was also that these new methods of discussion would make the debate more public, that people would be able to keep them fully informed, and that they would be able to produce their own judgment on the work of the judge. We also lack this in the yellow press to read about content that was in court that was not for the public, because it is a matter of protecting personal and other documents, so that it will be able to make use of this variety for such and other blackmail later on, in a few years' time, so that it can also benefit from these videos for commercial purposes and thus earn an additional profit and so on. You know, you're the same for a doctor, if we record an entire gallbladder operation, the public can't create the right picture, whether he's operated properly or not, or whether he's following the right standards, he's been using the right drugs – or is that what we want to do to control the judge? We can control the judge because the debates are public, they are open and whoever wants can come to the courtroom. The judges of the jury also take care of the check-up, and that's their job. This is the contribution of society to being protected, not to say that a judge does not commit illegal or other cases. In order to say yes, but I have watched You know, we need to know whoever is ever in court, the one who is accused, and the one who accuses when the judgment is handed down, most of the time no one is satisfied; they get too little, but if they sue me and condemn me, I will say that I have received too much. [[...]] Thus, the public cannot hold a broad debate on this subject, which would be helpful to the further part of the Court in order to make it more professional and more appropriate. This does not mean that we must exclude the public, but we cannot have such a wide open door. There are processes where you know exactly when it's specifically required to be a closed type such as youth insurance and the like. Then someone could have invented anything else. The professional public, too, is called the Supreme Court and the Slovenian Judicial Society, supports these changes, but I am talking about deleting the amendments that we are going to talk about because they think they are not protecting the case of any judge, because they are also among the judges who would need a good inventory or some other verification, and so on, which allows our legal order to be checked, that the judge should also be punished if he does not do his job, as he is expected to do, and so on. I think it is also clear that the State Council, specifically mentioned by State Councilwoman Bojana Potočan, and the Commission of the State Council supports the deletion of these controversial amendments that I have previously listed. Social Democrats will support this law in anticipation, but what has also been said is that a new law has been fully prepared at the Ministry and this is absolutely necessary. Listen, we're not gonna say fourteen days, but we're changing for a few months, we're breaking these laws, and then we're wondering if the judge makes a mistake because he can't follow all these changes. Let us indeed prepare a law that will be of full quality, modern and professional quality, and then this will all be better. While we will accept these amendments, there are many that are appropriate and urgently necessary, we will vote against these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. As I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening up an application for debate. Let me remind you that we are now discussing the amendments to Articles 5, 8, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34 and 37 tabled by the SDS Group. I'm opening an application for debate. Four panellists have been reported. The first word is Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This debate itself on the amendments tabled, as well as a colleague, would start a little wider. It seemed, at least that way, that the first debate had shown that even the previous coalition on some of the solutions contained in this novel had not been fully harmonised. As already pointed out by my colleague Brulc, at the first reading of this law, we have already received a law that was only partially coordinated within the coalition and partly came out of some changes that have not either been received or have not ceased this coalition coordination. At that time, the first reading showed that these are, in particular, changes related to the deletion of the classical record and the introduction of the recording and the digital records of various forms – recording of the main readings and digital records. As a representative of the legislative branch of power, of course, I would not have hoped to say for another independent branch of power that there was something rotten about it and that it belonged to the previous century and that there was still a critical reference to this topic. Such rhetoric and such a view are also evident in the solutions proposed in the previous reading. It is crucial to me because Members and politicians are not aware of what the profession has said – if that does not seem important to anyone; this seems extremely important to me and the Positive Slovenia Group. Last but not least, it is the profession which, in practice, is the one that knows the most things and who will also have to make these changes in case of change, and most importantly, from the profession and those who do so, depends on the work in practice, the speed and quality of this work. And if the profession speaks unanimously about the fact that these proposed amendments have not been agreed, that they have not been prepared for analysis, that the potential costs have not been verified and that the measures proposed have not been duly thought out, then I think that we should listen to this with all due care. On the basis of such warnings, the coalition parliamentary groups then also proposed amendments on the parent committee, and now, interestingly, one parliamentary group re-emphasizes all that has been deleted in the form of amendments. Thus, one also wonders about the meaning of the legislative procedure, where something is already being thrown out, and then comes in through the amendments. In short, the SDS Group, once again with these amendments, excludes exactly the same solutions as proposed by the first uncoordinated law, and apparently they are also further exposed to the grounds of the profession on the parental working committee. Let me say that I was on this committee myself and that I did not notice a representative of the Bar. There spoke representatives of the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Justice and Mrs Potočan of the Council of State. I don't know, I haven't noticed it myself, I'm allowing the possibility that I'm wrong, but I don't think so. And I certainly cannot agree that the Bar is not professional. And the fact that lawyers think only of their own benefit and want the procedures to last as long as possible, and this, my respectable colleague, points to a lack of knowledge of the profession. Like all over life, lawyers are probably good, bad, such, and different. The good lawyer wants in particular a satisfied party who will close the proceedings in court as soon as possible, because he is aware that he is burdened by both psychological and financial burdens, and the good lawyer is the one who listens to such a party and knows that this will bring the customer back to him, for his services, if necessary, and knows that the client will be satisfied and also recommend it to others. Nor do I in any way agree to flat-rate criticism. As far as content is concerned. The authors of the original solution and of the amendments believe that the recording and other solutions, the tweeting, the abolition of the classical record and the rest will accelerate the criminal procedure and make it more effective. The cost is consistent – I am also of this opinion and our Group of Members argues that it could not have been much different. These are large interventions into the structure and manner of the current criminal proceedings and, as the judiciary is concerned, such inappropriate, reckless interventions are responsible for the fact that the judiciary has problems over the years and years and does not reach the green branch. Mr Masleša, President of the Supreme Court, also pointed out in the last interview that there is a judiciary, and so everywhere in the world, is in fact traditional and in this sense conservative, rigid system, which operates according to very clear rules of action, which are strictly formalized by legislation, of course in order to protect human rights. Fast and reckless interventions into this system can lead to more different solutions; delays in the trial, poor application of laws, longer trials and so on. Both the Judicial Society and the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Council of State have warned that the same thing would happen. The public can be reached now in the manner that my predecessor has pointed out – the public main hearings are, each main hearing is published on the board, and whoever can come sits in the courtroom and listens to the trial, even if it is informed. The media is also about the most important things. Thus, the public cannot be the main reason for these changes, but I ask myself, as well as the profession, what such a public could cause in the behaviour of participants, both lawyers and those who are tried or perhaps others who could abuse such treatment for their personal promotion or anything else. In order to make it easier to assess the work of judges, there is another issue of proposing fundamental changes, which one finds difficult to agree with. Again, Mr Brulc made a good point. Just as some general lay public can't judge the work of a surgeon, so it's hard for some general public to judge the work of an expert in a trial, some judge in a trial. Judges are not subject to uncontrollable controls, as Mr Gorenak wanted to say. Judges shall be controlled by both the public and the jurors, as has been said, already mentioned; judges shall be examined through the instance which checks on the basis of a complaint of their decision, and shall also verify, within this framework, the absolute and relative infringements of the provisions of the criminal procedure. In addition, judges are assessed through personal councils, their work is monitored by the Council of Justice, and these are all forms of control of judges if we want to talk about it, not by some public on camera. There are even more reasons why these amendments cannot be accepted; some are much more professional. I also agree with what has been said, how to ensure confidentiality or confidentiality in relation to the Witnesses who are still waiting to witness if someone can tell you what is going on between Twitter and SMS. Practically everywhere in the courtrooms, there is no limit to this electronic access to the Internet and I do not know why it would be different for us. Since much has already been said about the content itself, I would conclude that this novel is really not a big deal to bring some good news, especially to us, for Positive Slovenia, it is a key possibility for the court to respond as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible in so-called economic crimes, it is said when crimes against the economy are committed. Here, the article explicitly states that all legal acts must last as little as possible and that all bodies shall act in a particularly rapid manner. It is already because of this provision that this novelty is worth accepting. There are some other provisions highlighted by Mr Gorenak, which in fact reduce administrative obstacles. There's just one last thing. The Criminal Procedure Act is the most important procedural law in the field of criminal justice used by criminal judges. Many changes, as has been said, can have a very negative impact on this procedure, and that is also what Mr Maslesa, President of the Supreme Court, pointed out in the interview. The criminal procedure cannot be changed quickly and recklessly and these changes have not proved to be good in the past. The fact that some political power is written in the Criminal Procedure Act that the criminal procedure must be completed in six plus three plus three months – what if it does not? In front of the judge’s wall – and what? It is necessary to provide systematic assistance to the judiciary and conditions to enable them to work quickly and to provide the necessary assistance, both cash and human resources, and to allow them to carry out their work independently and, of course, to control them. Of course, the fact that 250 posts of technical staff have been taken from the Court of Justice within the mandate of the previous Government does not lead to what we are all talking about, that the judges would be effective and that they would judge and eliminate judicial backlogs and ensure effective and quality work, but leads back to the fact that the judge must also carry out very technical tasks related to invitations, orders and so on. If we jump in criminal proceedings and other procedures here and there, as we think the wind is blowing, this our judiciary and justice will never come to a level to be pleased with. With what is now, we cannot possibly be satisfied, but I can agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Reploko wanted Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In the parts where you mentioned me, I have a few things to say to you. 250 million — yes, from where? Where did you get 250 million from? This is simply not true because we are already paying 89 instead of 45 euros. This means that we should take half the budget and not 250 million. That's one thing. That's another thing. I can agree with you and with everything you are talking about, under the conditions stated yesterday by Mr Minister: you have all the tools, work in Europe. Now, we give them all the tools, we give them a little more money every year, and that's it. And we take into account the profession that sustains itself and generates itself for 89 euros instead of 45 per European. See, that's the problem. When they have done it themselves, when Mr Maslesha has removed it, I will sign under your word, and now I cannot because you support bad work and bad work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u132	Dear colleagues and colleagues! You know, Slovenia is in trouble. Over the past period, we have been discussing enormously the financial and economic and other economic problems, but one of the important things that we forget all too often is the inefficiency of the judiciary, which is an integral part of all these problems and an integral part of all financial, economic and economic problems. If our judiciary were to work better, there is likely to be an economic and economic problem that could be solved more quickly. All of this, I think, in people, it causes a sense of injustice precisely because day after day they watch one and the same stories, how some people don't answer for any thing, while they can crown it all the time and do what they feel. But if all three branches of government are equal, equal, judicial, executive, legislative, why should never anything critical ever be said at the expense of the judicial branch of power? It's like this branch of government is untouchable! If this Parliament debates anything at the expense of the judiciary, it is speaking, seeking solutions to improve the judicial system, there is immediate evidence of political interference with the judiciary. If we try to make systemic matters better so that we may give them a probationary mandate so that they may be limited – never, there is nothing good and everything always falls under political interference with the judiciary; but the facts are very eloquent and I do not invent them. The facts say that Slovenia has either the largest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. 50 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. I think that the other European country behind us, more than 10, has under 40 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Where are the results? We were able to monitor the results when the Prime Minister was convicted in Croatia on the same day, and the Balkan Warrior criminals quietly stepped out of court. Then the case of Satex, who's out of date. We can read that this is one of the biggest financial affairs in the history of Slovenia, which is thus concluded in favour of the accused, who could even claim compensation. This is a real situation in the Slovenian judiciary. Not to mention that, in the last period of discussion, the connection between bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy judges has been debated that the personal council of the higher court has said that everything is oky and that nothing is wrong. On such matters, however, any normal person, with the CAP, must be called a healthy farmer, asking whether something is wrong with him now or with the judiciary. Like I said, I don't mean to flat-rate criticism, but I want to ask myself what the problem is. Is there a problem in ineffective court or is there a problem in bad legislation? There are two options. There are no other options. So that no one will say that I have spoken ill of the judicial branch of power, I will leave the part that speaks of ineffective justice. But I will ask myself whether the problem for the current situation is ineffective or bad legislation, now I wonder why there is always such resistance that any legislation in the field of justice would change if we know that things are not working. I feel like everything's being done to make sure nothing changes. But problems exist — and let anyone who can explain why this is happening. With regard to these amendments, which we are talking about today, which I think will contribute to better trials in the courts, I do not argue that every amendment from point to point is excellent and great and must be accepted in exactly the same form as it was proposed. Let's talk! Let's talk about where there's something else that can be improved. And let the so-called judicial profession tell you how things can be improved so that procedures can run better. Not just say that and it's inappropriate and I wouldn't know what happened if we accepted it. In short, I think we have a lot of work ahead of us and that sooner or later the judicial branch of power will have to come to some crossroads where the cards will have to be properly disclosed, where we will have to work together to work out how we can do everything to make this branch of power work better. Because if this branch of government is not doing well, then one way or another the whole country is in crisis and the whole country is unhappy. Those who are talking about absolutely contradicting all these proposed amendments, please honestly consider whether or not an amendment would be such that it would not go against the profession, but would help to speed up the whole process. In order not to follow our old habit again, because you know when we are in the coalition, we must be against everything the opposition proposes, and when we are in opposition, we must be against everything the coalition proposes. Now, in a way, you have the perfect opportunity to change these things and show that we are all working together to take a step forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say a few words myself about the amendments proposed by our Group of Members. With regard to the effectiveness of the Slovenian judiciary, I can read the latest news in the Evening: "The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled in nine cases against Slovenia yesterday on the grounds of judicial failure and imposed a fine of around 40,000 euros." This is information that is very important. When we say that everything is fine in Slovenia, foreigners tell us that they are bringing on our Slovenian ten-year bond almost 7%. We are still a closed country, and perhaps some of this information will be welcome to clarify what we wanted with these amendments at all. I think that these things need to be opened in some way, really argued in some professional sense, but not just in a flat-rate way. Here we are hearing that changes should also occur in the Criminal Procedure Act without any changes, this is contradiction. When we tabled these amendments, we were aware of all the rights of the participants in the process. The Criminal Procedure Act, as you know, provides for the closure of public hearings in juveniles and everything else. We were also aware of this when we were taking the initiative to take pictures. It is necessary to know, however, that our law on criminal proceedings, we call it a mixed criminal procedure, consisting of two criminal proceedings; a so-called acoustic criminal procedure which has already occurred in a Roman country where it is a classic criminal offence and it follows from this part that the public must be present in any criminal procedure, except in these special cases which I have mentioned. Then there is the so-called inquisitorial criminal procedure which occurred in the 13th century in England and which has enacted or determined that there must be a compulsory written or written record in criminal proceedings. Look, at the time, the development of technical resources was at a level where people were writing. Then, in the early 19th century, there was the introduction of so-called classical typewriters when the court recorder, according to the judge, wrote court records. This was dictated by the evolution of technical means and also here was lost a partial identity, because once someone who wrote, even in the 19th century, someone could say, "Look, this is no longer an identity," because someone can also write such a record on another typewriter and this identity is somehow lost – that basic court recorder. These doubts always appear. When we talk about sound recordings, even here in our legislative branch of power in the National Assembly we have magnetograms, there are tone recordings, but I have not seen some major opposition from my colleagues and colleagues. This case seems to me to be on the spot mainly because of really worrying cases concerning judicial backlogs. Here are the problems and with these problems Slovenia, including the judiciary, partially reduces the competitiveness of Slovenia. True, we are talking about the Criminal Procedure Act today, but look, catastrophic competition also includes cases in some civil cases where the proceedings are going on for an abnormally long time. If you imagine that some criminal proceedings last between 7 and 13 years on average, some cases are also in court for 20 years. This is totally unfair to all participants in the proceedings; to those who, after a decision, are the winners of this procedure or to those who are the losers. Each known judgment is a criminal judgment for one and the other party to the proceedings. We wanted to, and we want to do something to help the judges. Dr. Gorenak used to talk about judges performing that basic function — to judge, to be supremely professional. This is a time to devote to the essence of their expertise, but not to dealing with some flat-rate minimum requirements that someone can carry out with secondary education. That's what matters. Even court hearings. If this were to be recorded, it would be automatic. At trial, several hearings could be brought together in one day — as this longer-term procedure would also make a significant contribution. Perhaps this would be rather than at three court hearings on one trial day or one court hearing would result in these cases. It is attended by five lawyers, three prosecutors, journalists, a whole series of witnesses, and it is also often avoided, stalled, and less so than these public hearings, making it easier or shorter to reach a final decision of the judge. That's the argument we're talking about. On the other hand, those who say that there will be no change, because, in fact, we as a country or you as some political option following some political option are both pioneers of these public, of these sound recordings, because after the war all the mounted processes, such as from the Dahova processes forward, have been sound recorded, speakers have been put on the streets and the entire public can listen to in the then former republic, what charges have been made against those participants in these proceedings. In fact, we are pioneers in the field of this recording, so that in fact we should be united in at least some matters. Let me get on with it. I believe that, in the third stage of our comments, this could still be partially amended and that our amendments could really be included, would be an additional aid to the judges, would shorten proceedings, would in particular reduce financial effects. This is what would have a positive effect. The current amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act does not essentially bring about any revolutionary changes – here I may agree with my colleague that the judicial branch of the government is somewhat more rigid, that it somehow adapts for a longer period of time to some social changes, but I believe that the introduction of certain telecommunications resources into the judiciary would be appropriate and would not violate certain constitutional rights of participants in proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. If you allow me, you would first touch on the inefficiency or effectiveness of our judiciary. Today, something has been said about this, and I would like to express my opinion. In fact, when you observe the course of judicial proceedings before our courts, you will find that, in my opinion, the biggest problem is the avoidance of both the accused and the witnesses involved in the proceedings themselves. It seems to me that this is the great weakness of our judicial system, and I believe that in this area the new CAP, if it is to be written, would have to make some changes. If you have followed the progress reports, for example, the last rebuttal criminal proceedings in the Patrio case in Austria, there are not so many incriminating events and obstacles that prevent them from participating in the proceedings before the court. I think we need to make a change in this area. I would also touch on the amendments tabled by the SDS to some extent is my opinion and also the opinion of the parliamentary group on the deletion of this current way of doing business with the classical record and the introduction of a digital record, which I find to be inappropriate so far, as it brings a lot of problems. Mr Brulc spoke about them, and I agree with him, and I would not repeat them in full. However, I think it is necessary to point out that it is also a matter of human rights, that you have an accused, because it is prejudiced that he is responsible for an offence for which he has been charged with a legal charge, but it may happen that this act is not proven to him and that we have exposed him to the public. Who will then wash or bear responsibility for the injustice or damage we have done to such a person? Therefore, I believe that if the profession has said that this is the way that is now in force – it has also been said that it is a matter of many people speaking in a dialect and it is a problem to translate it, so it is important that the judge dictates a record, which then also serves the courts of appeal, etc. That is why I believe that this must be respected because this profession is not anyone. It was said, this is the Council of Justice, and it is written down, this is the Council of State, which is the final court, the Court of Justice, or Supreme Court, which also gave an opinion. The State Council also supports this. I think it's different that I'm not a judge, because I'm not a judge, so I'm a lawyer, and I'm a lawyer. But as a professional, I recognize these institutions and if they think, and since this way of working has been introduced for a long time, I think it needs to be supported. We will support the amendment of the law in the parliamentary group. We also expect that a comprehensive reform or new law will take place as soon as possible, which is said to be in preparation, so that the criminal procedure will be completely revised. Of course, I also predict that we will not support the SDS amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, are you applying for a hearing? I'm opening an application for debate. The application shall be made. You've been reported, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you. Everyone's got a really nice say-so first. I have to say that I applied earlier, but I don't know why it didn't work out, but this was very welcome in view of the debate just made by Mrs Porotat. Actually, there are two different sets here. I will not touch the recording of the records or the record in electronic form. I would like to draw attention to article 29, which could have been peacefully adopted — and by the way, if you had listened carefully, the Secretary of State also said that it would be taken into account in the next amendment of the law. That's what was said. This is said to be a completely acceptable solution inside. Why did I say it was good that it was my turn. Because all that has now been said as an argument is a reflection of the obvious ignorance or, if you want, the unprofessionalness of the one who discussed it. If I'm specific. What do we propose in article 29 as an amendment? Direct transmission of information by means of written messages is permitted, as well as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u139	Mag. Grims, the next item will be this amendment to Article 29, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u140	You said everyone was open. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u141	No, no, not all, on Articles 5, 8, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34 and 37. Then let's move on. That's it. You've decided to sign up now. Okay. Perhaps someone else wants to discuss, or I am closing the debate on the amendments mentioned above. We are moving on to Article 29 and I am putting in the debate Article 29 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Branko Grimes, I see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you. It is only, Madam President, that all those who have gone into the content of this Article should be warned earlier so that they do not discuss it. Because it was actually a debate about everything, and you know it. Especially Mrs. Popotat's. Indeed, this article is written in such a way that it actually responds fully to all that has been seen to be a flaw in this amendment. If I read what this is really about: that images and audio recordings are also allowed, as well as direct transmissions of sound and images. Now, which is essential, provided that the procedure is not disturbed, that the rights of participants are not violated in the procedure, that this does not affect the course and fairness of the procedure – that is, when it comes to the rights of participants, it is also primarily human rights – and that recording of the proceedings or individual parts is not permissible if the accused or his advocate, witnesses or experts expressly oppose it. This is said to be all that you have cited as an argument already adequately answered in the amendment itself. There can't be any of these violations. This raises the question of why there has been a categorical opposition to everything and the prediction that none of these amendments will be supported, and this obviously applies to this amendment. There are only two answers: one is that it is a political prestige, that this will be regulated later when it is not something that would have been accepted on the opposition's proposal, although it is an excellent solution and fully meets all the human rights requirements and proceedings. This also means that, in order to exclude any possibility of influence on witnesses and anything else that might affect the course of the proceedings, any human rights violation should be excluded. Once again, every defendant, defender, expert, witness could explicitly require that their work should not be recorded at all. So it's all arranged in the best possible way. What is guaranteed by this Article is the real public of the proceedings. I have a feeling that this is really about fear of the actual public. For, before that, the Ambassador of Positive Slovenia said that "publicity judges judges or judges their work". That may be a little hard to say, but if anyone wants to create an objective opinion at all, actual information must be available to him. I think that those who, at this point in time, judge the work of the Slovenian judiciary and the individual judges in particular cases are those at the level of the European Union who have repeatedly condemned Slovenia as a country for endlessly long proceedings because of procedural infringements, because a person cannot reach justice in court within a reasonable time. I myself have one eclectic; I have spoken with European lawyers, a totally undeniable violation of human rights for myself and for my family. I've been waiting two years, so far there hasn't been one treatment, nothing. Now I got a notice that there was supposed to be a reference there in July. Look out, after two and a half years! This is really a protection of rights, and there's something else that I won't be very touched by in my own words. Why is it such a fear of the public if we leave aside the possibility that it is merely a political prestige, given that, after this new coalition and its government, prices or what goes from the pockets of taxpayers to the sky, you probably cannot count much on political prestige anymore. Then there must be something else in the game. I think it's fear of the public. In some procedure that might even be open right now. You know, then we ask ourselves how objectively people are informed about what procedures are already under way. Even if they are, there's a lot of public controversy about them. I'm not sure if this reporting is always objective. Last time I heard, let's say, when we were under the sign of SDS, which I belong to myself, there was a judge in Austria who said that this money went to the politicians here in Slovenia, SDS wrote. I have to say, I didn't notice anything to get. But you know what was interesting then? Then we asked what she really said. And look at the fragment! She said that the only thing that was mentioned was Mr. Jure Cekuta. Jure Cekuta belongs in the circle of the transition left – in a totally opposite political gender. That's what it says, if money came to Slovenia, it went right to those who point with their finger and yell at another, "Take the thief!" So you can't see he's got his own pockets full.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u143	Mag. Grimes, I suggest you focus on Article 29.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u144	Yeah, yeah, that's the point of this amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u145	I don't know if you went into another case or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u146	That is the essence of the amendment, Madam President. It's about the public. On the question of when a judgment on a case is handed down in public before the proceedings begin at all. Then only what is confirmed by the previous public judgment is reported in that procedure. What happens is that he puts things on a lie, but he shuts up if it's five years from now that he thinks he's innocent. Who cares? Ask Marjan Podobnik about one similar case he experienced. Where did he end up and how did he end up? And he won. But, uh, who knows today? This, however, is the Slovenian public reporting and reference on public procedures, respected by the President. And that's why it's a problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u147	Mag. Grims, I can't argue with you as chairman, like the one who's running the National Assembly meeting. I would kindly ask you if you could focus on the amendment and Article 29, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u148	That's exactly the point. It is a question of how and who is informed in what case and what is the truth. Or is it the right, if someone is publicly convicted, then the court even gives him the right in the end. But no one knows anything about it whether justice was satisfied from the standpoint of that individual. I seriously doubt it! And I strongly doubt that this is in line with European standards. This amendment to Article 29 is therefore essential in view of the situation that we still have in Slovenia, unfortunately, as a witness to all those who have any proceedings in court. That's the problem. This is a problem that people are always looking for the answer to European institutions that give exactly to individuals, citizens and citizens from Slovenia. However, the state is condemned and we end up paying taxpayers because something in this judiciary does not work as it should, and because it is unfortunate that reporting on what is happening there is obviously not always enough for European standards. This is kind of a help, some kind of a security guard, like maybe in some way a reporting objectivity guard, what's going on right now when we're on a direct transmission. He's still manipulating himself, he's still cutting statements, he still shuts up a lot, but he's as harsh as he used to be before they were direct broadcasts by national broadcasters, and he's not fooling the public anymore. This is some democratic standard that has been established. This is the point in this amendment that even when it comes to the second branch of government, justice, it raises the democratic standards achieved, because you believe that they can be done and that there is still a great deal to be done in this area. Just a little bit of goodwill. There must be no room for political prestige and there must be no reservations, regardless of whether there is a procedure at this point that someone would rather throw under the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-23-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 29 and the amendment tabled? Since I do not see a desire to discuss this article, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to Article 39. I am putting this article and the amendment of the DeSUS, DL, PS and SD groups to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, 24 April 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the 13th session, which will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm informing you that in 15 minutes or at 14/10, two of your mother's working bodies will begin their sessions. There will be a meeting of the Committee on the Economy in the large salon and a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the large hall in Tomšič. Nicely greeted.
