ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Jožef Kavticnik. Of course, I welcome all those present. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the application of the transitional period for employment and the work of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Slovenia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. The law is being dealt with by an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andrei Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u2	Good morning, good morning. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The bill introduces a two-year transitional period for the employment and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia. With this measure, our country continues to enforce national legislation on employment and work of foreigners in order to protect the labour market. Therefore, if we simplify it, the adoption of this law will not change anything for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, citizens of the Republic of Croatia will also work or work for the next two years only on the basis of a valid work permit, but as they have done so far. The Slovenian Government is aware that free movement is one of the fundamental freedoms of the European Union, but the situation in the Slovenian labour market is unfortunately worrying. We are facing the highest unemployment rate since 1993, so our Slovenian market needs to be protected by first allowing the employment of citizens and citizens of our country. The data that testifies to the difficult situation in our labour market are obvious. In 2013, the number of active persons fell to a million for the first time, and the number of active persons was the last so low in 2003 and the number of unemployed was the highest since 1993. Thus, at the end of May 2013, some over 118 thousand unemployed were registered at the Employment Office, which is unfortunately 11% more than in the same period in 2012. The forecasts of Umar for next year are not much better, so we cannot expect a substantial improvement in the situation in the labour market in the coming year. A similar situation is unfortunately the case with our neighbours, where the reported April of this year have more than 360 000 unemployed persons and, of course, this represents an almost 22% unemployment rate. The fact is that there are also 100 000 unemployed people in these border regions bordering Slovenia. It should also be known that in the event of immediate free access to the Slovenian labour market, unemployed Croatian citizens would be entitled to all the types of assistance provided by the Employment Office to Slovenian citizens, i.e. active employment policy programmes, including those financed by the European Social Fund. In such acute situations, the Ministry has systematically and closely monitored the situation on the Slovenian labour market in recent months. Taking into account also – and without regard to the non-negligence – of external political aspects, we have nevertheless decided to propose to the Government to adopt the National Assembly a law which gives priority to the employment and work of domestic unemployed persons. In doing so, we need to take into account the geographical and cultural proximity, the linguistic relation, the developed network of informal and related links, which would put even greater pressure on our neighbours on our labour market. On the basis of all of this, it is highly likely that the immediate free access of Croatian citizens would cause disturbances in the Slovenian labour market and would also affect the level of unemployment of Slovenian citizens. Even at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, most so-called old Member States introduced a transitional period for Slovenian workers, although the economic situation at the time was significantly different. For example, neighbouring Austria and Germany applied for Slovenia a total seven-year transitional period of up to 30 April 2011. Finally, it should be pointed out that the transitional period is in place for a temporary measure that will only apply for two years. This measure, we stress, is not directed at Croatian workers or against the Slovenian economy. We propose the introduction of the transitional period as the only rational response and the responsible response of a country facing difficult labour market conditions and poor economic forecasts, unfortunately for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law on the implementation of the transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Slovenia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by the Government to the European Parliament by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a proposal for a law by emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and a representative of the Council of State. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments to Article 3 of the bill. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council, which supported the proposal for a law. At the same time, the Government has proposed to monitor in detail the labour market situation and other key aspects during the two-year transitional period, in this case finding that further market protection would be necessary, and to inform the European Commission of the extension of the transitional period for a further three years. No amendments were tabled within the time limit by qualified applicants and a proposal was proposed for an amendment to the Committee which was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative presented the draft law briefly and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion and said that the proposal for an amendment to the Committee followed their comments. The debate highlighted the view that it was the right and duty of the State to protect its citizens, and that is why all the debaters felt that the law needed to be supported. This raised some concerns about the urgency of the in-depth procedure, taking into account the negative consequences that this decision could have, and the issue of active employment policy was raised. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities said that they were dealing with detailed concerns in the drafting of the law, as they are aware of the importance of neighbourly relations. She stressed, however, that our message must be that we do not prevent cooperation because it is only about prolonging what already exists. The Committee adopted its amendment and all articles. On this basis, the text of the amended draft law, which includes the adoption of an amendment, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for presenting the Committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u6	Have a nice hello again! The draft law on the implementation of the transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia after the entry into the European Union introduces a transitional period of two years, which means that citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia will continue to be able to work or work only on the basis of existing work permits during this period. In the SD Group of Members, we will support such a solution as the proposal for a law. Initially, I would like to point out that good relations with neighbouring countries seem very important to us as Social Democrats, so they need to be strengthened all the time and to work for the best possible cooperation. The implementation of measures such as the implementation of the transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of Croatia in Slovenia must be well considered and justified by an analysis of the situation which requires such measures. And that's the kind of analysis that was done. Data show that the situation in the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia has deteriorated further in the first quarter of this year. Unemployment is on the rise and the number of active workers has dropped below a million. Unfortunately, economic forecasts are also quite sad, which has a bearing on the unemployment rate. The situation in Croatia is even worse as their unemployment rate is significantly higher than in Slovenia, which is 21.9%. A comparison of wages in both countries shows that the minimum wage in Croatia is about twice lower than in Slovenia and the average wage for a third lower, further affecting the attractiveness of employment in the Republic of Slovenia, particularly in the border band. In addition, it should also be pointed out that since 2008 Slovenia has been reducing the employment and work of foreigners, which does not apply to the employment of Croatian citizens. In 2012, 5 % more work permits were issued than in 2011. It follows from the data presented that the failure to implement the transitional period for the employment of Croatian citizens in Slovenia after the entry into the EU of that country would have a significant impact on the labour market situation in Slovenia. Therefore, the introduction of a two-year transitional period is justified under the circumstances and is also necessary. The draft law introduces a two-year period, which is the shortest possible transitional period. It is not insignificant to point out that most EU Member States have introduced a transitional period at the time of Slovenia's entry for the free movement of our workers, including our neighbouring Austria, and some of them have also the longest, seven-year transitional period, although there was no crisis in Europe at that time and employment opportunities were significantly better. Well, even in the current period, the analysis shows that most countries have introduced such restrictions for Croatian citizens. Once again, I would like to stress that even after joining the EU, citizens of the Republic of Croatia will still be able to work in Slovenia under the same conditions as now, i.e. through work permits. On the basis of all these facts, I reiterate that the Members of the Social Democrats' Group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thanks again. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian government has assessed the situation on the Slovenian labour market as worrying as we have been facing the highest unemployment rate since 1993. Thus, the legislative process was followed by a proposal for a law whose key objective is to protect the Slovenian labour market from free employment and the work of Croatian citizens after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. Support for this proposal, which we also announce in the National Gazette, means that, even after their entry into the European Union, we retain the same conditions of employment as currently applied for citizens of the Republic of Croatia for a transitional period of two years. In the Civil Gazette, we had serious concerns about the proposed restriction on the free movement of labour. Under normal circumstances, we advocate changes aimed at exploiting the advantages of a single European space in the search for business opportunities. We are convinced that there is still too much fear of opening up the Slovenian space in Slovenia. Recent European Commission research shows that the European Union does not take advantage of the important potential in the area of free movement of labour. There are still too many obstacles, among which are the most regulated professions and activities. Unfortunately, we have an extremely difficult economic and financial situation at this time, and other factors such as the 120,000 unemployed in us and 11% more than in the same period last year must be taken into account. 360,000 unemployed persons in Croatia or almost 22% of registered unemployment, the largest unemployment rate in regions just off the border with Slovenia. The unemployed citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be entitled to all the types of assistance that the Employment Office must provide to Slovenian citizens, i.e. active employment policy measures. Taking into account all these factors, we have decided in the Civil Gazette that the interests of Slovenia and our citizens must be protected in this situation, so we will support the proposal for a law. When the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union, we must all focus together on the opportunities that entry brings to the Slovenian economy and the common search for synergies and efficiency. The fact is that the economic interests of the Slovenian and Croatian economy are covered and cooperation is the only way to succeed. And let's not forget, the boundaries are where we build them ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, Minister with a co-worker! In the Group we support the proposal for a law and also the urgent procedure, as the State certainly has the right and the duty to ensure the protection of the labour market, including the accession rules in the European Union. Of course, we have the right to this transitional period and, after a transitional period, one of the main objectives of integration into the European Union is the free movement of people in employment. The main reason for our support is that the country must prevent any damage caused by the employment and work of Croatian citizens without work permits in Slovenia after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. We support the proposed regime that will ensure during a two-year transitional period that our country can continue to apply national legislation in the field of employment and labour of third-country nationals. In this regard, we have already heard this today, as well as the forecasts made by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, and we expect the Government to re-evaluate the situation and take appropriate action after the first two years and, if necessary, protect the Slovenian labour market even in the next three years. In doing so, I must stress another important point in this law that the employees of neighbouring Croatia, i.e. employees in Slovenia, in companies in Slovenia, do not change anything. This is certainly good for the economy in this area, and in this way we do not create injustices for individuals. As we say, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u12	A very warm greeting and thank you for your word! The law before us is very short, but according to the assessment of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners at this time is extremely important for Slovenia. The fundamental objective is to protect the Slovenian labour market after Croatia's entry into the European Union. The bill thus provides that Croatian citizens will be employed on the same terms as before after 1 July 2013 for at least the next two years in Slovenia; therefore, as non-members of the European Union on the basis of work permits. It should be pointed out that Slovenia has also been subject to restrictions on the employment of our citizens and citizens in other Member States for seven years following the entry into the European Union. In our Group of Members, we strongly agree to restrict the free employment of foreigners in our country. Let this sound as protective as it may be, the latter is at a time when the state of domestic unemployment is very alarming, even in place. Despite the fact that free movement of persons is one of the fundamental values of the European Union, it is good that a certain restriction can be maintained, as they rule in the Slovenian labour market an extremely severe situation. According to the unemployment rate, 2013 is the second worst year since its independence. And what is the most appropriate thing for a country to do in such a situation? In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that we are preserving jobs for our citizens. We therefore support the Government's decision to opt for a two-year moratorium on the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We anticipate that making such a decision is difficult for the sake of good neighbourly relations and that it has not been easy. Nevertheless, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners we support the proposal of the law, as it is our assessment that it is essential that we do not further endanger the normal functioning of the Slovenian market and that, at least in these crisis years, we treat domestic unemployed persons as a priority.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, young visitors, welcome! The New Slovenia delegation group had already warned the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs about a good month ago about the need to protect the domestic labour market by implementing a transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia after the entry into the European Union of neighbouring Croatia. With the question posed by me on 20 May 2013, we have probably further encouraged the ministry to undertake the drafting of the law that we are currently considering. In New Slovenia, we look forward to the entry of neighbouring Croatia into the European Union, as this will be in the long term for the benefit of both Slovenia and Croatia, while we support the proposal for a law on the implementation of the transitional period for the employment and work of Croatian citizens, since it is the right and duty of each country to protect its citizens first and allow the unemployed to have a first or new job. This is also the case with the other members of the European Union. This is not egoism, but it is necessary and necessary to care for its citizens. The situation in the labour market in Slovenia is acute. The number of unemployed is very high, even higher in Croatia, and the crisis, unfortunately, is not yet seen to be over. We believe that the domestic labour market should be protected by the implementation of the transitional period. We know, however, that Slovenia must continue to implement an active employment policy by promoting the economy and creating new jobs, while at the same time we want Slovenia to implement an even more active policy of retraining unemployed workers for jobs that are lacking in Slovenia. This could reduce the number of work permits for foreigners and reduce unemployment. We call on the Ministry to monitor the situation on the labour market during a two-year period with great attention if the transitional period should be extended after the expiry of this period. The draft law will be supported by Members and Members of the New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you. Mrs Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u16	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! There are very strong arguments for the adoption of this law, the purpose of which is to protect the Slovenian labour market from free employment and the work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia after their entry into the European Union. This law allows the Republic of Slovenia to continue to enforce national legislation on the employment of foreigners, which means that temporary transitional measures in the area of the free movement of persons are in place or, in a specific case, we introduce a transitional period of two years for the employment of Croatian citizens after their entry into the European Union. Croatians will be able to continue to work under the current rules on the basis of a working permit on the employment of foreigners. The decision to introduce a transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Slovenia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia should take into account the current situation in the Slovenian labour market and the forecasts regarding the demand for appropriate labour, the forecasts of further economic movements for the Republic of Slovenia and also the situation on the labour market of the Republic of Croatia. The Slovenian situation in the labour market is acute. On average, 124,000 people will be unemployed in 2013 and unemployment is rising, according to the data of Umar. This also reduces the employment of third-country nationals, with exceptions only for citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose number has increased in the Slovenian labour market last year. We must be aware that according to the Croatian Employment Service in the regions bordering the Republic of Slovenia, there are as many as 100,000 unemployed people. Number of all registered unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia on day 3. 4. In 2013, 364 thousand 898, the registered unemployment rate was 21.9%. Moreover, the comparison of minimum wage shows that in Slovenia it is more than half higher. In view of the above, taking into account the geographical and cultural proximity, linguistic relation and the developed network of informal and related links, the equalisation of nationals of the Republic of Croatia with domestic workers would have an important negative impact on the situation on the domestic labour market and the unemployment rate. We must stress that by gaining the right to free movement of persons or the movement of labour, the citizens of the European Union also get the rights deriving from work, i.e. the right to a financial compensation. The main reason for the decision for the transitional period and for the preparation of the bill is the protection of the Slovenian labour market against free employment and the work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. As it is said, there will be 124 thousand people on average in this year. Such employment and unemployment movements will also increase the rate of registered and surveyed unemployment this year. Let us recall, however, that at the time of the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia, some Member States introduced a transitional period for Slovenian workers, although there was a period of conjunction in Europe at that time and countries were in a much better economic condition than the Republic of Slovenia is today. For example, neighbouring Austria protected its national interest and fully implemented the entire seven-year transitional period until 30 April 2011. The transitional period is a temporary measure and will apply for two years, from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2015. In Positive Slovenia we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u18	All welcome, distinguished Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Madam Minister with co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members! Our southern neighbour, the friendly country Republic of Croatia, with which Slovenia has the longest land border, joins the European Union on 1 July 2013 as a full member. Until 22 years ago, Croats and I lived a long time in a common country, both in two Yugoslavias and in Austro-Hungarians. We are connected by many historical arguments, economic cooperation and, last but not least, Slovenian citizens have at least 100,000 main holiday properties, mainly on the Adriatic coast of Croatia. When Slovenia joined the European Union in 2004, the economic crisis was not a problem and unemployment in Slovenia was not a problem, but some countries have fenced themselves from Slovenia for a transitional period of seven years, concerning the free movement of workers and employment for Slovenian citizens. They did this to a very friendly country, Austria and Germany. The main purpose of the integration of countries into the European Union is the free movement of people, goods and services and capital. In this way, the European Union countries should also open their doors wide to workers from Croatia. The economic crisis is different in European countries. Slovenia is still in recession, the number of employees has fallen heavily, although unemployment is in the lower half of the scale. Some companies are already employed in Slovenia by workers from Croatia under the law on foreigners or under the contract for deficit personnel. Employers in Slovenia also want to be allowed to employ Croatian citizens freely because they see competitive labour and benefits. The Slovenian state would also show a friendly gesture if it freed access for Croatian workers, but the real situation in Slovenia does not allow us to do so. We have 118 000 registered unemployed, and nothing shows that the crisis would change and increase employment. Thus in Slovenia we are forced to establish a transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Slovenia after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. For the time being, the limit will last for two years and we only wish that employment will improve so much at that time that after two years this limit will not have to be extended. However, access to the labour market in Slovenia will not be completely closed to Croatian citizens. The same as so far, employers will be able to employ Croatian citizens if there is no adequate labour force in Slovenia, workers with work permits. The Blue Employment Card in the European Union is also valid in Slovenia, which means free movement of highly educated staff, which can benefit Croatia or Croatian citizens. In this way, we will also support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group's proposal for a law on the implementation of the transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Slovenia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 20 June 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act, the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. At the moment, I do not see representatives of the Government in the Chamber, so we are moving on to the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to everyone, including you visitors on the balcony! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 17th regular session. 6. 2013 discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 52nd meeting, on 10. 5. 2013 decided that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act should be examined in a simplified manner. The Law-Legal Service has examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and has made comments on Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 11, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23. During the course of business, the amendments tabled the coalition's parliamentary groups in the same article. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. State Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Mag. Mitja Mavko said that the amendment to the Slovenian acquis partially transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the supplementary supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that their comments, which were mostly of a nominal technical nature, were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the above-mentioned Articles, amendments to the coalition, to Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drafted and adopted the amendment to Article 5, the amendment to the amendment to the parliamentary groups of the coalition, which in the statement of amendments to Article 5, the word "second" is replaced by the word "first". In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and we propose that the National Assembly also adopt such amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to all, especially to young visitors! The amendment of the law partially introduces into the Slovenian legal order a Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the supplementary supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate. In the Civil Gazette, we welcome the further regulation of this area. For we cannot overlook that the economic recession we are witnessing has actually started as a financial crisis. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers is somehow that milestone that marked the beginning of the financial crisis, which then turned into a global economic recession, which we now feel strongly about for the fifth year. The supervision of financial institutions, banks, insurance companies, investment companies, which then combine in different forms in financial conglomerates, is necessary. However, we must be aware of this that there is no better control than a prudent owner and a system that is set up to pay the owner for the mistakes of the administration and the supervisory board with his assets, so that the account for greed and thus the high risk will be paid on its own. The financial sector had problems worldwide, including in America, where the country intervened quite early with $700 billion, which it injected into a private banking system and was soon fully reimbursed with interest. State control is needed, but it must be primarily focused on the fact that even in the event of the worst, if a single financial company fails, this does not result in a dominion effect. If we have a system where individual banks or insurance companies cannot be sent to a controlled bankruptcy, while retaining the role of savers and other creditors, there is something seriously wrong with control. It is not the role of the State to translate the errors of the administration and owners into taxpayers. If the Administration is aware that its mistakes will be taken care of by the State, we are in fact forcing it into increasingly risky investments where, in the event of happiness, it is rewarded with high profits and in the event of bad luck, it is covered by taxpayers. That's not allowed! We privatise profits, we socialize losses, we could call it short. That's not allowed! The story of financial instruments, conglomerates and control of them often reminds us of the story of robbers and gendarmes. The first is somehow always a step ahead of the others, so it is essential that supervision does not fall asleep, that it closely monitors developments in the financial market and responds accordingly. This also reflects the changes that we are considering today and will be confirmed in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, Members of the Parliament and Members of the Members of the European Union, welcome to all! The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group towards the package of laws, the novels of the Financial Conglomerates Act, the novels of the Banking Act and the novels of the Insurance Act. Since this is a so-called package of three laws, whose changes are intertwined and linked, allow me to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to all three novels at the same time, since it is mainly about the transposition of the same Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 into the Slovenian legal order through all three laws. As we have already heard, there are additions to the supervision of financial entities. When ensuring adequate regulatory supervision, the legal composition and management and organisational composition, including all regulated persons, unregulated subsidiaries and important branches of banks, insurance and financial conglomerates with cross-border activities, shall also, where appropriate, supervise the bodies of European institutions. This is therefore a greater focus on cross-border cooperation in supervisory functions. In the case of the amendment of the Insurance Act, additional supervision of the insurance undertaking in the insurance group will be carried out by the Insurance Supervisory Agency and some supervisory measures have also been introduced. The aim of the law is also to further remove certain administrative obstacles, in particular in obtaining evidence from official records maintained by administrative units. The draft law extends the definition of the insurance group in such a way that the parent in the insurance group may also be a mixed financial holding company which may be established either in the country or be from abroad. Here is the introduction of the obligation to exchange information between an insurance undertaking subject to supplementary supervision and its subsidiaries and superiors. The calculation and reporting of the adjusted capital requirements shall be imposed on the group’s parent mixed financial holding companies and the group’s parent foreign insurance undertakings. Supervisory measures have been introduced in the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the insurance group and criminal provisions have been adapted. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support all three laws, i.e. the novelties of the Financial Conglomerates Act, the Banking Act and the Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that representatives of the Ministry of Finance, which I welcome, have also joined us, of course I welcome young visitors. However, I would like to inform you that at this point I will present the position of the New Slovenia Group on all three amendments to the laws, i.e. the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act, which is simple logic, since the amendments to all three laws relate to the implementation of the same European Directive. The liberalisation of financial markets has enabled the development and functioning of financial conglomerates that manage all financial services from banking to insurance services related to securities. Due to the interconnection of mutual capital links, possible risky mutual transactions and the lack of supervision, such financial conglomerates may seriously jeopardise the stability of the financial system within a given country. Each individual Member State shall have its own internal supervisory institutions in these areas. In Slovenia there are such supervisory authorities of Banka Slovenije, which manages the supervision of banks and other credit institutions, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which supervises insurance and reinsurance undertakings, and the Securities Markets Agency, which supervises investment funds, brokerage companies, mutual, pension funds and management companies. The specific Regulation regulates the cooperation of supervisory authorities to effectively control companies associated with the financial conglomerate. In larger economies, the number of financial conglomerates is already high, after a few tens, and in Slovenia we have only two financial conglomerates, namely Triglav and KD. Globalisation allows for the integration of credit institutions, insurance companies and investment companies from different countries, making their operations more difficult to control. The impact that financial conglomerates may have on the stability of the financial system requires regulation not only within a single Member State within the European Union but also throughout the European Union. The cooperation of individual supervisory authorities within a country shall be required through a designated coordinator. For this reason, the European Parliament and the European Commission have adopted several directives to be implemented by Member States in national legislation. With the current amendments to all three laws, Directive 2011/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 is transposed into the Slovenian legal order, strengthening effective supervision of financial conglomerates. Legislative provisions are complemented by definitions of new forms of financial conglomerates and are subject to supervision at the same time. Certain control provisions have also been corrected in accordance with the findings made so far in the implementation of financial conglomerate legislation, and mandatory compliance with European Commission regulatory technical standards is also introduced. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support all three new laws. Indeed, the financial sector is developing extremely rapidly both functionally and institutionally, following legislation with delays. Connecting financial institutions means a number of advantages for them: reducing the cost of marketing an individual product, broad access to products, as a result of the possibility of spilling financial flows within the holding company, reducing the need for external financing. Financial institutions within the holding company are also more protected against the risk of insolvency. On the other hand, the integration of a financial institution can avoid supervision and, in particular, the capital adequacy of financial institutions within the conglomerate for the protection of consumers needs to be ensured. These objectives, however, are followed by the bill's debates, and we therefore support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Ms Renata Brunskole will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, everyone is very welcome! Business models offering services and products from different financial sectors: banking, insurance and securities markets begin to develop in the financial world around the time of Slovenian independence. The financial groups involved shall be named financial conglomerates. The matter is complex for several reasons: increased risks, deliberately held information, complexity and complexity of governance and conflicts of interest arising from the different nature of legality in force in individual sectors. The problem is surveillance. Each financial sector has its established forms and methods of control, but experience shows that a particular so-called complementary control is needed for a risky explosive form of conglomerate. Risk management should therefore be further regulated, made more difficult and coordinated by supervisors of different groups with the coordinator or supervisor at the highest level. For these reasons, at the turn of the millennium they are created in the financial conglomerates of the first Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, and in Slovenia was the first implementation in 2006. With this amendment of the law, the relevant Articles of Directive 2011/89 of the EU are being transposed into our legislation, while this opportunity has also been used for corrections that further explain certain concepts and procedures in the law in force. The principle of improved, including more extensive, complementary control is at the heart of all changes. Let me mention the most crucial. Under consolidated or complementary supervision, alternative investment funds are re-classified. The competent authorities carrying out regulatory oversight shall be informed of the legal and organisational structure and of the management of all persons associated with the financial conglomerate. Complementary supervision of capital management procedures and risks shall be aligned with the supervisory procedures under the law governing banking. Finally, cooperation with the supervisory authorities of third countries — non-member countries — is regulated through the College of Supervisory Authorities. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. That's a nice hello to you all! The proposal to amend the Financial Conglomerates Act, which we are considering following a reduced procedure, will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This proposal for amendments concerns less difficult changes and additions, which are also largely linked to coordination with the European acquis. The package of laws, including the Financial Conglomerates Act, complements the Banking Act, the Insurance Act, with regard to additional supervision at the highest level of the group. To this end, it also contains provisions for the coordination of the various group supervisors and, of course, requires that this body be consulted on certain supervisory issues. As has already been said today, this bill is partially transposed into the Slovenian legal order by Directive 2011/89 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011. As already mentioned in the introduction, given that there are fewer difficult changes and adjustments to the European acquis, we will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u32	Respected and respected! The Social Democrats will also present package positions on the Financial Conglomerates Act, the Banking Act and the Insurance Act. All three laws are the result of an important directive in which, in other words, we can talk about enhanced supervision of certain financial institutions, but in fact these legal changes have little impact on Slovenian reality – there are two such financial conglomerates in Slovenia. The aim is therefore to transpose the Directives. At European level, there has been a process of improved and strengthened regulation of the financial system and financial sectors for a long time, and in this regard laws have provided some important solutions. On the one hand, shortcomings in the definition of a financial conglomerate are thus addressed, where the entire managed assets are introduced as an alternative indicator in the article, while they are adequately distinguished between the appropriate conditions for groups below and above the threshold of EUR 6 billion and alternative investment funds are included in the consolidated or supplementary supervision framework, and some new criminal provisions are also laid down by law. The Insurance Act removes administrative obstacles, in line with the Action Programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce burdens for 2012 and 2013, in particular as regards the acquisition of evidence from official records. The main solutions are: the supplementary supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the insurance group, in agreement with the supervisory authorities, of the rules of the Directive governing financial conglomerates or the rules of the Banking Directives, the definition of the insurance group by extension, so that the supervisor in the insurance group can be a mixed financial holding company, the obligation to exchange information between the insurance undertaking which is additionally supervised and its subordinated and parent companies, the calculation and reporting of the adjusted capital requirements, the new supervisory measures of the Insurance Group, the parent mixed financial holding company and the supervised foreign insurance undertakings in the insurance group are imposed on the calculation and reporting of the adjusted capital requirements. Certain criminal provisions are also being adapted. The Banking Act introduces some major solutions, such as ensuring that all necessary supervision tools can be used on consolidated supervision, and also introduces the concept of mixed financial holding company, which I have already talked about in the Insurance Act. This prevents the exclusion of holding companies at the highest level of the banking group classified as mixed financial holding company while the provisions and powers applicable to former financial holding companies are maintained when the classification of the group or holding company is changed. In order to ensure adequate regulatory oversight, the legal composition and management and organisational composition, including all regulated persons, unregulated subsidiaries and important branches of banks, insurance and financial conglomerates with cross-border activities, should be supervised, where appropriate, by the European Banking Authority, namely the European Banking Authority and some others and the Joint Committee of European Supervisory Authorities, and the information should be made available to the relevant competent authorities. There is also a re-availability of powers at the level of mixed financial holding companies, which means that at this level certain provisions of the Financial Conglomerates Act, the Banking Act and the Insurance Act are applied simultaneously, in particular as regards the quality elements of supervisory procedures. In order to avoid overlapping such provisions and to ensure effective control at the highest level, supervisors must be able to apply a single provision only once while taking into account equivalent provisions of all other applicable laws. In short, the Social Democrats will support all three of these laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 20 June 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defence proposal for a law on amendments to the Banking Act and amendments to the Banking Act, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Mitji Mavku, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Many things about the three laws that are before you today have already been said in the preceding paragraph, so allow only once more by the Government, which has briefly explained the proposal for all three amendments to the laws. As mentioned above, the three draft laws in the Slovenian legal order introduce the so-called omnibus directive concerning financial conglomerates; that is, it is necessary to amend three parts of our Financial Conglomerates Act, our Banking Act and our Insurance Act. The so-called omnibus directive largely – key changes relate to introducing changes in the functioning of financial holding companies, which are defined by the new directive, more precisely in terms of the introduction of overall asset management as an alternative indicator for the definition of financial holding company, but also introduce some new provisions or new definitions such as mixed financial holding company, that is, holding companies in which both the bank and the insurance undertaking can manage, or more banks and more insurance undertakings. Clearly, in such a complex financial structure as the mixed financial holding company is implementing, and in an increasingly complex financial management system, both banks and insurance and financial conglomerates, it is very important how the supervisory powers are shared, so that we can control these institutions so that we do not lose little. Therefore, – very important – these legislative amendments update the concept of the competent supervisory authority, very clearly define what additional information is needed in the management and organisational structure of supervised persons; they set out very precisely the cooperation of competent supervisory authorities with third country authorities and what regulatory and technical standards are taken into account in the introduction of controls. This, of course, means much more work for our central bank, which is the supervisor of banks, and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which is the supervisor of the insurance market. As the Government, we certainly propose that the three proposals of the Laws be supported by the National Assembly, thus ensuring an equivalent level of treatment of financial holding companies in Slovenia, as will be the case throughout the EU, while ensuring additional security in the operations of our financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you, too. The draft law has also been considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much again. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 17th session, on 4. 6. In 2013, the Government submitted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, ZBan-1K, to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption after a shorter procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments on each article of the draft law, namely Articles 7 and 32. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 32 of the bill. The aim of the bill is to partially transpose Directive 2011/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order with regard to the supplementary supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further explained that the comments of her service were duly taken into account in the amendment tabled. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups by Article 32 and adopted the proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We propose that the text also be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you, too, for presenting the report. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. We have before us the other from the package of three laws that have been drawn up to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and the veto with regard to the supplementary supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate into the Slovenian legal order. In order to ensure adequate regulatory oversight, the legal composition and management and organisational composition, including all regulated persons, should be supervised by the bodies of the European banking institutions and the Joint Committee of the European Supervisory Authorities. The availability of powers at the level of mixed financial holding companies means that at this level certain provisions of the Financial Conglomerates Act, the Banking Act and the Insurance Act are applied at the same time. In order to avoid the concealment of such provisions and to ensure effective control at the highest level, supervisors must be able to apply a single provision only once while taking into account equivalent provisions of all other applicable laws. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the proposal for the amendment of the Banking Act. We will also support the previous draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State! Financial sector business models offering services and products from different financial sectors, both banking, insurance and securities markets, are called financial conglomerates. The main novelty of the present novel is the alignment of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union, i.e. the transposition of the directive into domestic law. The new Banking Act must be dealt with together in a package with the amendment of the law that we have previously dealt with, i.e. the amendment of the Financial Conglomerates Act, as well as the amendment of the Insurance Act, which the assembly will deal with later. The red thread of these three laws is supervision; the control relating to supplementary supervision is the control tool available to individual supervisors when we talk about controlling so-called mixed financial holding companies, i.e. the structure where one holding company controls different groups of financial institutions under each other. Such a structure can be carried by both banks and insurance companies. Both banks and insurance companies are subject to the supervision of sectoral regulators and a mixed financial holding company operating at the summit could be subject to smaller regulatory and supervisory requirements, as could be appropriate in terms of the complexity of the institutions under consideration. The main solutions to the novel are: to ensure the necessary supervisory tool that introduces mixed financial holding in consolidated supervision and thus prevents the exclusion of holdings classified as mixed financial holding companies at the highest level of the banking group, while maintaining the provisions and powers applicable to financial holding companies. In order to ensure adequate supervision, the legal composition and management and organisational composition, including all regulated persons, unregulated subsidiaries and important branches of banks, insurance and financial conglomerates with cross-border activities, shall be supervised by EBA, EIOPA and ESMA and the Joint Committee of European Supervisory Authorities, as appropriate, and the information shall be made available to the relevant competent authorities. The re-availability of powers at the level of mixed financial holding companies means that at this level the provisions of the Financial Conglomerates Act, the Banking Act and the Insurance Act, which may be equivalent, are applied at the same time. In order to avoid overlapping such provisions and to ensure effective control at the highest level, supervisors must be able to apply a single provision only once while taking into account equivalent provisions of all applicable laws. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we believe that the present amendment to the law will contribute to more effective control, which will help to better manage risks and harmonise the functioning of supervisors of different groups. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State! In fact, the number of financial services provided by banks on the one hand has increased in recent decades, on the other hand, by insurance companies and other financial institutions to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, as well as to citizens and citizens of other European Union countries. I am also talking, of course, about the other citizens and citizens of the European Union because today we are adopting a directive of the European Union, which will specifically oversee financial conglomerates, that is to say, on the one hand, the bank, insurance companies and other financial institutions. The essence of this is to ensure greater stability of the financial system, and the essence of greater supervision is also that in fact citizens and citizens have greater security when they use the services of these institutions, especially because we have, after all, poor experience from a few years ago when the financial crisis began with the collapse of Lehman Brothers. In fact, there are two institutions in Slovenia which are organised as conglomerates, but we must take into account that citizens and citizens of Slovenia can use these services in other countries of the European Union, so it is important that we have uniform supervision that we have single financial institutions both at European Union level and in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this law, after all, and especially because it brings benefits, greater security and greater stability of the financial system for all entities in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u44	In the Civil Gazette, we will support the amendment of the Banking Act. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment of the Financial Conglomerates Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 20 June 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On a daily basis, on the basis of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the law, the representative of the Government considers that there is no need to present or provide additional explanations. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We are talking about the troika, as everyone has already said, they have indicated, but of course, with much consideration on the committee, certain things must be given and it must be properly recorded how the process of taking changes has gone. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 17th session, on 4. 6. 2013 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. This has been submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 25th session of 10. 5. 2013 also certified. Additional material was received on the proposal for a law, which is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 21. 5. 2013 Amendments tabled by the coalition groups: 30. 5. 2013 to Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 12, 14, 15 and 16 of the legislative proposal. These amendments were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. After examining the texts within its powers, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly forwarded comments to the Committee on Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 12, 14 and 15 and 16 of the legislative proposal. Representatives of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings. The main objective of this proposal is also the implementation of the amended sectoral directive established in 2011 into the Slovenian legal order relating to the supplementary supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in the context of the postponement of the opinion, stated that the comments submitted were fully taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee did not discuss the text submitted. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 12, 14, 15 and 16 of the legislative proposal. In conclusion, on the basis of the preliminary decision adopted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the legislative proposal together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended proposal is prepared under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and we suggest that it be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia is to be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak, but I do not think that she is in the Chamber right now. This will be the position of Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u48	Mr. President, nice to meet you. Dear Members and Members! The last of the already mentioned package of laws implementing the sectoral directive relating to the supplementary supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate to remove certain administrative obstacles in obtaining evidence from official records maintained by administrative units. The novel's proposal brings some important solutions. Additional supervision by the Insurance Supervisory Agency participating within an insurance group shall be defined. It is envisaged to apply the rules of the Directive governing financial conglomerates. The rules apply to credit institutions in the case of mixed financial holding company and, in agreement with supervisory authorities, to extend the definition of an insurance group in such a way that the parent may also be a mixed financial holding company established in a Member State or abroad. The proposal also introduces the obligation to exchange information between an insurance undertaking subject to supplementary supervision and its subsidiaries or superiors. It specifies the reporting of the insurance undertaking and the transactions within the insurance group. In the case of this parent mixed financial holding company and foreign parent insurance undertaking in the group, the calculation and reporting of the adjusted capital requirements by the newly introduced supervisory measures of the Insurance Supervisory Agency shall be subject to appropriate adjustments to the criminal provisions. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will also support this proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting to all present from my side! The proposal for the amendment of the Insurance Act also arose from the amendment of the Financial Conglomerates Directive, which was established in 2011, and is linked to the supplementary supervision of financial entities in the financial conglomerate. The solutions introduced by the new Insurance Act are thus complementary to the supervision exercised by the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the insurance group and which participates within a particular insurance group. The bill extends the definition of the insurance group in such a way that the parent in the insurance group may also be a mixed financial holding company which may be established either in the country or abroad. The draft law introduces the obligation to exchange information between an insurance undertaking subject to supplementary supervision and its subsidiaries and superiors. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia we also support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will be the representative of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Greetings to the Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The most recent developments in insurance are based primarily on the sudden confusion and consequent delay in Solvency II. The main objective of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act is to transpose certain Directives of the European Union and consequently to modify the complications arising from Solvency II. The main solutions to this law are that supplementary supervision is carried out by the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the insurance group. Supervisory measures of the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the Insurance Group shall be introduced. We estimate that these supplements will certainly affect the greater transparency of the business of insurance undertakings and also the protection of all insurance providers. As a result of all of this, we will also support this proposal or amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic, Members and Members Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u54	In the Civil Gazette, we will support the amendments to the Insurance Act. The explanation is the same as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you for the brief and concise presentation of the Group's position. I note that this has ended with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 20 June 2013 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on cable devices for the transport of persons, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with first-signed Branet Golubovic. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Branet Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u56	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President – the representatives of the ministry are not yet – very welcome! I am convinced that Slovenia's development, in particular the placement of investments in space, is a prisoner of a narrow mentality of administrative barriers and partial public interests that cannot look at the needs of the community or society. The fact that only one landowner can stop the entire investment for a number of years, whether it is a sidewalk in a municipality or a large private investment, is not a good signal to foreign or domestic investors. We want to remove one of these administrative obstacles by means of a bill aimed at obtaining a licence for the construction of cableways within the process of obtaining the necessary equipment, which the investor needs to obtain in order to obtain a building permit. The existing law in its second article provides that the construction of cableways is in the public interest, as it has a positive impact on the development of a wider area. This means that the construction of cable devices not only creates a direct benefit for the investor but also generates a very large public benefit for the community or region. So allow me to briefly present the procedure for obtaining the concession. The investor shall submit an application for interest in the construction of the cableway device. On the basis of this application, the competent authority shall decide whether the installation of the cableway device is justified. The basis is whether the cableway installation is of public interest and whether the investment will bring a wider public benefit. In addition, it shall be determined whether an appropriate spatial act has been adopted for this area allowing the construction of cableway devices. On the basis of all this, a concession act shall be issued, tendering shall be made on the basis of the concession act, awarding a concession or not on the basis of the invitation to tender. If the concession is granted, the concession contract shall be signed at the end. Well, the procedure is rather long and complicated. Here, however, there is a problem, as it may be necessary to demonstrate public interest twice in obtaining a building permit: for the first time in obtaining a concession, and for the second time in a possible procedure for depriving or restricting property rights. This means that the investment, because of the time limit of the concession awarded, is doomed to failure, since the procedure for restricting property rights or even depriving them takes time. However, if the public interest needs to be demonstrated by a specific spatial plan of the municipality and it is not accepted by the municipality because it has adopted another spatial act on the basis of which the concession was granted, the investment of the mission becomes impossible. All of this, despite the fact that at the precise stage of the award of the concession, the operation of the cableway equipment is determined on the plot, as well as the technical characteristics of the public interest and public benefit. An appropriate spatial act has even been adopted for the area allowing construction and provided for in Article 25 of the Act. This amendment eliminates the duplication of the exercise of public interest, and in Article 35 of the Act we propose that the procedure for restricting property rights or disqualification may be initiated on the basis of an appropriate spatial act allowing the construction of cableway devices and which is also the basis for obtaining a concession for construction, as set out in Articles 25 and 26 of the Act. On a proposal from the Ministry, we have also added an amendment to the security guard so that such a procedure can only be initiated if the spatial act allows the identification of the property in the earth's cadastral. In addition, we further propose, thereby bringing about the Ministry, and we propose, in the form of an amendment, that the initiation of a public service procedure or the introduction of a decommissioning procedure would be sufficient to initiate the acquisition and issue of a building permit. The responsibility for the success of the development of cableway devices and thus ski centres lies with both the investor and the owners of the land, the municipality and the state. It is therefore important that the investor communicates with the owners at all times, including with the assistance of the local community and the state as a mediator. The introduction of procedures for restricting property rights or disqualification is a extreme measure, I stress, a extreme measure which is not well served, but it is important that everyone is aware that it can be reached quite quickly, even in Bohinj or in any other area suitable for the construction of cableway devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you, too. The proposal for a law was also addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At its 7th meeting, on 4 June 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft Law amending the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons submitted by a group of Members to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In the introduction, on behalf of the applicant, Member Brana Golubović explained that the aim of the bill is to remove unnecessary administrative obstacles to the acquisition of a building permit for the construction of cableway installations and to regulate the conditions for the decommissioning or limitation of property rights on the properties necessary for the construction of cableway installations. In his view, it should be taken into account that due to the public use and sports-recreational importance of all cableway installations in the public interest, where the merits of the cableway installation and the appropriateness of the location are established. The Government also supported the bill. In its view, the current regime provides that the public benefit of the real estate leasing or limitation of property rights is shown to be necessary for the construction of cableway installations and other facilities and facilities covered by the concessional act for which the location plan is adopted, the construction concession and the concession contract concluded. The draft law was also supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In its written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that it was too extensive to refer to the spatial act referred to in Article 25 of the Law, which is proposed by the amendment, since in the legal system the spatial act is a common concept, which denotes several types of acts. In the debate, all the discussers expressed their support for the purpose of reaching it through a proposal for a law, while some discussers expressed their concerns about the proposed solution to the specific proposal for a law and drew attention to the comment made by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion on the definition of public benefit in the event of decommissioning in conjunction with Article 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposers announced that, during the period until the plenary session, they would try to find a solution by the Ministry of State to the maximum of their comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, while at the same time leading to an optimal solution, as the bill seeks to achieve. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended Act is prepared under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which the amendment is also incorporated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you for presenting the committee report. Given that the meeting is taking place relatively quickly, I note that the representatives of the Government are not yet in the Chamber at this time, so we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Until the amendment of the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons, New Slovenia has been retained since, as already pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, the issue of the seizure or limitation of property rights to public benefit constitutes a difficult constitutional material. On the labour market, the Legislative and Legal Service has already pointed out that in the event of decommissioning, the public benefit must be determined for each particular case and not in general. In New Slovenia, we strongly advocate simplifying legislation, removing administrative obstacles and allowing people to launch new projects, but we believe that this must take into account certain social criteria and standards that protect nature, human property and in the specific case of rights arising from this. They also warned that the reckless provision of the law could cause even more damage than the benefits. The Committee on Infrastructure adopted an amendment to the amendment of the Committee, which was not supported in Novi Slovenije, since it did not resolve the essential issue of which spatial act to refer to the novel in a sufficiently clear manner. The legislature considered that the municipal detailed spatial plan would be an alternative solution, but this proposal was not adopted. The coalition has now tabled a new amendment, which we believe is still quite broad in defining the type of spatial act that should serve as a basis for any restriction or confiscation of property rights. Due to the sensitivity of the area of limitation of ownership and leniency, Nova Slovenija is retained to such a solution and will not support the law in the proposed form.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the views of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u62	In Slovenia, after 1995, we have built quite a nice number of new cable devices, 28, but unfortunately in the last four years only one. Investments in cableway installations have a significant impact on the development of tourism activities in places where they are being set up, so it is essential to build new capacities to improve Slovenia's overall tourist offer. The results of the survey of the World Economic Forum place Slovenia on the basis of competitiveness for tourism development in the 36th place among 140 countries. It also includes some other European countries competing in winter tourism, such as Switzerland, which has held this prestigious place for the past 8 years, France, Italy, Austria. Tourism has been estimated by analysts at the WEF to be relatively crisis-resistant, particularly in the developing countries of the rapidly growing medium population. It is therefore appropriate to provide support to all development projects that promote economic development and create new jobs. The procedure to be carried out by the future investor in order to build cable devices together with the construction concession is extremely long, a lot of documentation, evidence, patience is needed and can take several years. In the past, most interested foreign investors have given up and chosen a more friendly environment. It will therefore be possible, by supplementing Article 35(2), to enable the investor to obtain a building permit on the basis of a valid decision or decision of the competent administrative authority to initiate a decommissioning procedure or to confirm that a public service procedure has been initiated. The Construction Act provides that the administrative authority may grant a building permit only if the investor has the right to build. The amendment proposal therefore takes into account the requirement that the ground for decommissioning be a spatial act in which the identification of the property in the terrestrial cadastral can be possible. The proposed amendment allows for decommissioning on the basis of any spatial act, but only if its content allows for the concrete and specific reality of the public need. On the basis of the proposed legal arrangement, the investor will not have to wait for a legal dissuasive decision, since such an arrangement also applies to other facilities where the public benefit is shown. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia supports the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons, which will propose the removal of unnecessary administrative barriers to the acquisition of a building permit for the construction of cableway devices and the arrangements for the decommissioning or limitation of property rights on the properties necessary for the construction of cableway devices, which has also made it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you for your introduction. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u64	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the development of tourism, we support investment from this segment, resulting in new jobs and, of course, economic development. However, we do not agree with the way in which ownership is exercised or limited in the case of the public benefit shown for the construction of cableways. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that land extraction through decommissioning should be systematically regulated for all types of construction in the public interest, but not that this issue of land production is solved from case to case, and this is different. Just as the proposed amendment of the coalition parties opens the door for dissipation too wide and we cannot support it. This is also the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! We support the proposed amendment to the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons in the Group of Social Democrats. We would like to simplify the procedure for obtaining a building permit for the construction of cableways. It should be borne in mind, however, that due to public use and sportrecreational importance, all cableway installations are in the public interest if the merits of the cableway system and the appropriateness of the location are established. In the Group of Social Democrats, we stress the importance of maintaining each individual job in Slovenia. There's more to this marriage. Finally, it is about creating new jobs. In practice, we know the case of Bohinjska Bistrica or Bohinj, where the project of the construction of the cable system was stopped precisely because of the legislation we are amending today. We had a broad debate on the proposed amendment of the law on the home Committee for Infrastructure and Space. As a result of warnings from the Legal and Legislative Service, we have adopted an amendment, leaving the article open in law and later, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, which supports the amendment, we have tabled a coalition amendment following the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, and in our opinion also warnings expressed by the opposition at the Committee's meeting. With the law, Members and Members will support the development of winter tourism in Slovenia, and in particular in Bohinj we will allow the continuation of the project process worth €50 million, in which foreign investor also participates. This project must be quickly placed in the space. Only a new ski resort will mean 60 new jobs, up to 70 in the peak of the season, with, of course, multiplier effects. For the project, all project and technical documentation, a large majority of the consents obtained, and the adoption of this amendment of the law could begin with the construction of the cableway device itself in an acceptable time. We will therefore support the amendment of the law in the Social Democrats Group, as we are aware of the importance of building new infrastructure facilities and facilities, the importance of investment and the importance of every new job in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u68	Dear President, colleague and colleague, a nice greeting once again. The situation in the area of spatial planning and construction is too difficult for us. Procedures are long-term and complicated and, as such, hinder economic development. Today the construction of buildings, the purchase of real estate and their use in Slovenia are more expensive and significantly less secure than in comparable European countries. A greater proportion of the blame lies in the weaknesses of legislation and its implementation. Despite the many minor changes in spatial legislation that we have adopted in this mandate, more fundamental changes are needed, which are already being discussed in a professional manner. One of these took place at the end of May in the State Council. Spatial planning and planning are not only professional issues but also directly related to public interest and various private interests. Renunciation of its own interest in the benefit of the community we are members of is inevitable, but must be predictable, reasonable and proportionate to the benefits it brings. And it is in this area that a number of problems arise in practice. We are trying to eliminate one of these with the proposal of this law. The key objective of the proposal is to simplify the land clearance required for the construction of cableway installations for the transport of persons. In the Civil Gazette, we agree that cable devices have a wider social and economic advantage not only for the investor. We therefore support the changes that simplify the procedures for the construction of these buildings. Complicated bureaucratic procedures must not be an obstacle to new developments, to new business opportunities. We caution, however, that the last possible and at the same time the sharpest measure to obtain property rights on property should be the last one to be dispossessed. In certain cases, the interest of the owners must be withdrawn from the public interest, but in doing so, the decommissioning beneficiary must do everything necessary to ensure that the decommissioning process is not necessary, so all efforts must be made to prepare the appropriate offer, to find replacement properties or to make maximum efforts to conclude the contract. The General Regulation on Dismantling and Other Restrictions on Property Rights is governed by the Law on the Regulation of Space, and we therefore expect the Ministry to prepare amendments to this law, which will follow solutions or simplifications, as presented in today's proposal. Most of these problems and congestions occur in the construction of motorways and other infrastructure facilities. Members and Members of the National Gazette will be supported by the draft law as well as the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u70	President, thank you for your word. Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have carefully considered the amendment of the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons, as well as a thorough reading of the explanations of the applicants, as well as the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. According to the applicant, the proposed amendment to the law refers to a specific case where there was a complication in Bohinj in the acquisition of a building permit for a cableway installation, because it was not possible to meet the conditions for defining the public benefit necessary for the decommissioning or limitation of property rights on the property required for the construction of cableway installations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, of course, we are inclined to invest, especially in tourism, and we are pleased to support any amendment to the law that allows the removal of administrative obstacles, of course, within the framework of the constitutional legal security of each owner. However, despite our unequivocal support for simplifying these procedures, we have carefully examined the proposed amendments and have found that such a text, as has been inserted into the legislative process, cannot receive our support. Why not? In view of the fact that the applicant attempted to make a circuit under which the decommissioning of the desirable land could be carried out on the basis of any accepted spatial act, including on the basis of, say, spatial regulatory conditions or municipal spatial act, which unfortunately do not provide for sufficient precision, it is generally not determined on which particular plots and to what extent a type of construction permit, i.e. cableway devices, is to be determined. However, the exercise or restriction of property rights is a type of intervention which must be based on clearly pre-known and previously publicised documents, as it could also allow certain speculations or even abuses. Such a document could certainly be a municipal detailed spatial plan, but the applicant with such a solution was obviously not satisfied, as such a procedure in a particular case could take longer than a year, perhaps even two. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we objected to such a non-transparent legal solution which, in our opinion, would not have been able to withstand a constitutional judgment. We were therefore often surprised to learn that the proposed amendment of the law was also supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its written opinion. Well, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has also submitted its disagreement with the solution, which has also found that the amended provisions are too loose. The amendment tabled by the proposer for the proposed amendment at the meeting of the committee now requires the exercise of public benefit by means of a mandatory graphic annex to the act in which the property can be identified in the terrestrial cadastral. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the new amendment represents an acceptable legal solution, which we will continue to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The most successful areas of Slovenian tourism include winter tourism, which is why many tourist centers are working to obtain new ski areas. The operation of the ski resort must be ensured by suitable cableway installations which are in the public interest, due to public use and sportrecreational importance related to the exceptional location. One of the greatest advantages of cable devices is that they can be placed in rare and exceptional locations. Just because it's a special device, it comes to disrupting the nature of several different ownership plots. In practice, it is thus impossible to obtain a building permit in spite of confirmed spatial regulatory plans that adequately address all spatial and environmental aspects in the construction of the intended installation, because of the additional administrative requirements laid down in the past in the regulatory regulation of this area, even though these are not necessary. Therefore, according to the DeSUS Group's assessment, it is essential that administrative barriers to the construction of the basic tourist infrastructure, including cableway installations, be removed as much as possible as possible as one of the elements for the successful development of the tourist area. In this way, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a new Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons, as we believe that the removal of unnecessary administrative barriers to the acquisition of a building permit for the construction of cableway installations and the conditions for the decommissioning or limitation of property rights on the properties necessary for the construction of cableway installations are necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 18 June 2013. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National List and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Who wants to discuss this amendment and Article 1? I find that there are no interested parties to the debate. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, 20 June 2013, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the amendments and additions to the mining law, and on the other hand within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Infrastructure and Space Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Sam Bevk, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At its 7th meeting, on 4 June 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Magi Space shall be the Secretary of State. Bojan Babič stressed that the proposal for a law was prepared with the aim of implementing the EU Directive on the geological storage of CO2 to address the problems encountered in the application of the law in practice due to inadequate and lacking transitional provisions, the elimination of certain inconsistencies in the law in force and the elimination of inconsistencies which prevented certain administrative procedures from being carried out. He pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had made a number of comments to the draft law and that several comments had also been made by the professional public during the interim period. For these reasons, the proposer proposed to the Committee that the proposal should not be supported by the law and thus allow the Ministry to draw up a new proposal for a legislative text within the coming months to take the most into account the comments and concerns raised. From the findings of their written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the proposal included important substantive changes and additions to the existing mining legislation and that the amendment of a third of the scope of the law would therefore be more appropriate after the drafting of the new law in its entirety. She also pointed out that the proposal for a law contained a lack of explanation which did not meet the standards laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, the President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, pointed out that the Commission, while supporting the proposal for a second reading, had also been informed of a number of substantive problems faced by the drafters of the law and had expressed their own opinion that the preparation of a completely new system law would be more meaningful. The debate expressed the view that the proposal of the law does not solve the situation in the area of mining, but even raises some new issues, stressed that the proposal does not address the area of the operation of mining works outside the mining premises, where we currently do not have legally possible effective control of these works. It also does not adequately address interference in the area where concessions are already granted, the award of concessions themselves, the areas of recovery of mining works and the suspension of exploitation, including termination of rights and obligations. It also noted the extensive comments and concerns raised by the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law. For these reasons, it has been proposed that the Committee vote on the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the proposal, the Committee voted and adopted the following decision: The amendment of the Mining Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you, too, for further explaining the proposal for a decision. However, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill for the introduction of the position to the proposal of the home working body, by giving the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, Mag. Bojan Babic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The objectives of the proposal for a new law were as follows. Firstly, compliance with the European Union acquis, the transposition of European Directive 2009/31 EC into the work relating to the storage of carbon dioxide with the novelty of storage in the Republic of Slovenia – this is prohibited. Eliminating non-compliance in the applicable law and complying with other rules, preparing the basis for the extension of mining rights and concessions after 31. 12. 2013 as it is no longer possible to extend beyond the applicable law after that date. Preparation of the basis for the registration of responsible mining auditors in the directory of authorised persons in mining, which fell out of the current law by mistake. The provision of transitional provisions allowing the parties to exercise the rights acquired under the old law, however, has not brought them into a new regime. Debirokratisation and removal of administrative barriers in several places, the multiphase of certain administrative procedures is eliminated, procedures are resolved faster, procedural errors are addressed, the conditions to be met in order to obtain an individual right are precisely recorded, and all the systematic content of applications required. The auction procedure is completed and the basis for issuing the Regulation is prepared, which is more precisely defined by this procedure. And the regulation of inspection of illegal mining operations, and the extension of land intended for mining with spatial acts, are not an integral part of research or housing. The possibility of illegal mining work reporting to an inspection by anyone and not just the landowner. The possibility of introducing a procedure to identify operators of illegal mining works, even where works are currently not carried out, and to issue remedial measures. In its activities so far, the amendment of the Law has been supported by the Council of State, noting that the amendments should take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In view of the decision of the coalition partners not to table amendments and not to support the amendment, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has taken the view that the law is not suitable for further procedure without appropriate corrections. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Space of the proposed amendment did not support it. The questions raised are that the amendment does not take into account the reasoned comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and is therefore not, in our opinion, suitable for adoption in the National Assembly. Proposed activities for the future: due to the necessity of implementing the European Directive, the preparation of a basis for extending mining rights by 31. 12. 2013 and the arrangements for the transfer of rights already acquired under the old law to the applicable law would be necessary to prepare a new amendment and to supplement the law taking into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and to send it to the procedure as soon as possible. The transfer of rights already acquired under the old law into the novel is possible, while it is not possible directly to the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u78	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act does not solve and simplify the situation in the field of mining, but raises new issues. The key dilemmas that the proposal does not solve are in the area of the implementation of mining works outside mining areas. These parts include geothermal wells, wells, test wells and all illegal mining operations into spaces other than exploration and exploitation. In these cases, we do not have legal effective control, so there are different inspections between them to solve specific cases. The proposed law also does not regulate the way in which concessions are already granted. Such interventions cannot be carried out without the consent of the rightholders and obligations, and the law should also regulate the award of concessions themselves and the area of the rehabilitation of mining works and the suspension of exploitation, including termination of rights and obligations. The length of the concession must depend on the acquisition space of the individual mine, the quantity of stocks and the forecast of acquisitions per year. In order to extend, it should already be sufficient to have an elaboratory on stocks, we believe that a mining project is not needed in addition to the laboratory if the exploitation continues in accordance with the already planned basic project. The proposal includes significant substantive changes and additions to the existing mining legislation, and, without appropriate justification, removes the possibility of a complaint to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the administrative procedures of the Ministry of Mining, which constitutes an exception to the system regime under the Administrative Procedure Act. We also agree with the statements of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which is in large-scale review in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, in addition to the fact that a number of comments point out that its actual scope is closer to the amendment of a third of the scope of the law and suggests that instead of the amendment it is more appropriate – a new law. The Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia does not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Magnificent. SDS MPs, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u80	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act was forwarded to the procedure with a view to regulating concessional relations and eliminating the blockade on the extension of mining rights. The existing law for mining rights holders on Day 1. 1. 2011 the applicable mining right to use, with 1. 1. 2014 cannot be renewed again. I believe that with minor amendments to the proposed law, concession relations could be better regulated. The conditions for the extension of mining rights should be clearly and precisely defined, as a wide range of exploitation is not in accordance with spatial acts or is contrary to other rules. Since you are stopping a bill from being proposed by government coalition parties, you will assume the responsibility that the new law will be adopted and enforced by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u81	Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u82	It is also important for me to say in this law that all the instruments we have at our disposal must be used in the way of drafting such an important law as the Law on Change of the Mining Law. That's what I'm thinking about all those who are particularly involved in mining. We will not support the proposed amendment of the law because we do not think it is suitable for further consideration and even less for use. There is a profession against this law, there are inspection services against this law, and there is a legal profession against this law or against the provisions of the law, as well as against the congregations. It seems very important to me that in law such as the Mining Act, we ask and respect the opinion of the congregations. Sanitation of damages or remediation of the consequences of excavations or the consequences of interventions into space is extremely important, and particular attention should be paid to this area. It also seems important to us specifically to check how the transfer of ownership between individual owners takes place, as this may also have consequences for the recovery. And even more important is the inspection of rehabilitation. I would also like to point out that the Mining Act can also be extremely important for human security in underground exploitation. Therefore, special attention should be paid to inspection services, geodesic services or jammer services, for whatever else may be going on with regard to the exploitation and monitoring of this exploitation, as well as with regard to mining rights and concessions. If I have correctly understood today that we cannot extend the new law of concessions, it seems to me to be extremely problematic, because this year we will have to very precisely determine the extension of mining rights, otherwise we will have great problems after the end of this year. Therefore, the amendment of this law or the writing of a new law is extremely important. And the concessions. The municipalities and the state need to agree very precisely on what the division of concessions, how much these concessions will be and where these concessions go, or we will have a conflict between local communities and the country, because most or all of the consequences of mining work are in the area of local communities. Therefore, we think it would be good to make the necessary changes very quickly, taking into account the Energy Act, which is in the process and which must also cover part of this area, or the Mining Act, is part of this area. Once again, the Social Democrats will vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u83	Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Marko Pavlicič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. In the Civil Gazette, we agree that the Mining Act deserves a new opportunity. The current proposal raises more questions than it solves them. The regulation of the law with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service would require a bunch of amendments, which would make the law even worse readable. Only clear, simple and comprehensible legislation ensures equality before the law and is the greatest guarantee of compliance with the law. We therefore agree in the National Gazette that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the last meeting of the home working body, i.e. the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, it was decided that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act was not suitable for further consideration. In view of the proposed broad range of changes that the proposal has brought, we also considered that such a proposal was not appropriate for further consideration in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In our Group of Members, as in a series of laws tabled by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, we have also observed in this amendment of the Law that it is changing to a considerable extent, while at the same time we have found in a number of articles wrong or inappropriate explanations and that many of the amended provisions raise a number of new questions. While we had our doubts, the proposal also contained positive solutions, including those aimed at implementing the European Community Directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide. Well, it turned out that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had even more comments than we had in our parliamentary group, as they included 15 pagers. In line with our expectations, the introductory part also made a recommendation to prepare a new law to remedy the shortcomings, inconsistencies and substantive errors of this novel due to the amendment of almost one third of the articles, namely 63. Above all, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that such unconstant proposals for laws, such as those on the mining side, cannot and must not be given a green light in the National Assembly. We expect that, in accordance with the commitments made at the meeting of the Committee, the competent ministry will draw up a new systematic proposal for the Mining Act, including comments made by the professional public in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for the amendment of the Mining Act is not suitable for further consideration. We have also voted in favour of this proposal on the home labour body itself, because we believe that the proposal does not solve the situation in the area of mining, but even raises some new issues. Such a proposal does not address the scope of the mining works outside the mining premises, where we currently do not have the legally feasible effective control of these works, nor does it regulate the appropriate intervention to a place where concessions are already granted, the award of concessions themselves, the areas of recovery of mining works and the suspension of exploitation, including termination of rights and obligations. We cannot go beyond the extensive comments and concerns raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the draft law, and despite the fact that the scope of the amendment is approaching two-thirds of the scope of the law, which would make it more appropriate to draw up a new proposal for a law. The reasons for the amendments themselves were very flawed by the applicant. In the DeSUS Group, as has already been said, we consider that the bill is not suitable for further consideration, as there should be too many comments, both by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and by the professional public. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group call on the Government to prepare a proposal for a new law as soon as possible, which will also regulate the area of concessions, as they will expire at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State with co-workers. Let me say, very briefly, that the New Slovenia Group will support the decision adopted by the Infrastructure and Space Committee, that is, the mother's working body; but with regret. This just means that we will have to wait at least a few months for the final solutions. We expect, of course, that the Ministry or that the Government will take into account all the critical comments expressed in the debate at the Committee and also today at this meeting, as well as that the Government will also take into account the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Services in the drafting of the new Law on Mining or in the new law. Of course, we also expect, given that the unresolved issues in the field of mining are a hindrance, some turbulence in this area, and therefore we expect the Minister to give his fellow workers a job and when they do so, it will probably be a vacation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. We have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. Ending this agenda item We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing and the task of the working bodies of the State assembly. The draft decree has been tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly for consideration by the National Assembly and we will hold a presentation of the views of the delegations. First of all, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group cancels the presentation. Mag. Majda Purity on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The College of the President of the National Assembly unanimously endorsed the Proposal for a decree on the working bodies of the National Assembly. The review of this Decision shows that, in fact, it is a matter of adapting the obligations or competences of working bodies in the light of the changed obligations or arrangements imposed by the Government Act and the Public Administration Act. For this reason, we will support the draft resolution in the Parliamentary Joint Social Democrats, but I must point out that we have tabled representatives of all four coalition parliamentary groups a proposal from the amendment, which speaks differently than the proposal made at the College of the President of the National Assembly. This is, in the 14th point concerning the Committee on Culture, an appropriate name for the indent, which will be replaced by the task of the Committee to deal with the proposals of laws, other acts and issues relating not to the religious community, but to the area of religious freedom, which is more appropriate. In the proposal, you also found a proposal to amend or add an indent limiting the powers of the Committee on Culture to the extent that the Committee, as a working parent, should not address issues relating to the financial operations of the Institute of RTV Slovenia. We have found that such a restriction cannot be recorded or inappropriate to be recorded in the light of past parliamentary practice and in view of what is also the task of the Supervisory Board under the RTV Slovenia Act. In fact, the third paragraph of Article 27 clearly states that it must read: "The Supervisory Board shall inform the Programme Board and the Programme Committee of the programmes for the Italian or Hungarian National Community, the National Assembly and the Minister responsible for the field of the media of its findings. If he finds any irregularities, he shall order the Director-General to remove them. The Supervisory Board shall have the right and duty to propose to the competent authorities, in the event of irregularities identified, measures under their jurisdiction." I have read the whole paragraph, and I stress in particular that the Supervisory Board does not send to the National Assembly the full report on financial operations and this also to the Committee on Culture, or whatever the Committee has named itself in the past, and that it has also had a culture in its competence that the Committee has always addressed the views of the Supervisory Board on business findings, including financial transactions, it is clear. Let me just remind you that we have been doing this since 2007 and in this case we have ambiguity: the Commission for Public Finance Control and the Committee on Culture is the second working body. The Committee on Culture, which, after the latest decision, has the power to deal with the media, also has the right and duty to deal with reports from other media in its field of work, such as the annual report of the STA, the annual report of the Broadcasting Council and the report of the Supervisory Board. This includes financial findings or financial statements. In particular, I would like to point out that RTV, in addition to the public funds it receives for both minority programmes, also has an RTV contribution, which can also be classified as public funds because they are taxpayers' funds. At the same time, RTV also has a market activity and the volume of funding depends on the programme. Thus, the report of the Supervisory Board is single, is not divided into two areas, and we believe it is right that doubtfulness remains written in the future as it has been established so far. We therefore believe that this additional indent is not necessary and that it is sufficient to take account of this parliamentary practice, which has been established under the applicable law on RTV. However, if the new law is ever adopted and brings anything else, that question may be again shaken by whom the Governing Council should report what. Once again, it is not a comprehensive financial report, but a report from the Supervisory Board, which reports to the Council on its findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President! In Positive Slovenia, we have the same problems as previously pointed out by our predecessor, colleague Potrata, with ambiguity. In fact, as far as the amendment decision itself is concerned, we support it in all segments, except in this. I'd explain the logic of our problems in this. The ministries are determined in accordance with the Law on State Administration, which means that their area, territory and their powers are determined. Accordingly, the National Assembly hereby appoints, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, parent work bodies which normally cover the same area. There is now a problem with RTV, whose report is to be considered. The Founder's Rights to RTV applies, of course, to the Ministry of Culture. If the financial scheme is excluded from this report, this report does not provide a complete picture and it is very difficult for the founder to decide only on the programmes. This means that it is essential for us to maintain this duality. We therefore do not support this work, as the predecessor said before, in the second paragraph of Article 14. As far as religious freedom is concerned, it is clear that this is the Committee's domain, as well as the Ministry of Culture, and we do not have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Bosic. We have thus concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a resolution. The first one would be Ivan Vogrin then Borut Ambrožič, Jani Möderndorfer None of those listed are in the hall. It's mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam Vice President, again. I am taking this opportunity to call on Members and Members to support the amendments we have tabled. Doubtfulness may bring some problems. Let me just remind you that in the last year, when we discussed the report of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, we had different views in two working bodies on the report of the Supervisory Board. While the Commission considered the report to be appropriate for the supervision of public finances and did not have specific requirements for this report, the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, however, rejected the report at that time. And the rejection of the report of the Supervisory Board, which was also linked to the determination of the financial situation, was the basis for the resolution of the then supervisory council. So this has happened, and it cannot be overlooked. The comment was also probably linked to the fact that the Commission had adopted certain conclusions or a longer decision for the supervision of public finances, the Committee on Culture had adopted its conclusions and, in one part, had taken the Commission’s decision on the supervision of public finances and added something else. It is interesting, however, that that allowance was adopted on a proposal from the SDS Member. So this is not about the classic competition between the opposition and the coalition, but it is about some of the conclusions we have from parliamentary practice. The fact that the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth rejected that report for 2011 resulted in the fact that the Supervisory Board of the day completed its report and responded to the obvious. It is also unfortunate that there is an option, but it is interesting that the Committee then did not define itself further to this supplementary proposal of the Supervisory Board. Now I will not comment on why this has happened, but I want to say that so far there have been no other problems with this, except, of course, that the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth at that meeting has exceeded its powers, by law. But this is another story that has nothing to do with the question of duality. We therefore believe that it would be right if this uncertainty remained in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragan Bosic, would you like to discuss this further? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u98	Actually, it's not a debate, but I would like to point out once again what I did before. Of course we will support the amendment, but the basic logic that we follow and ourselves follow is some principle of subordination. This means, founders, ministries, committees and powers. Here we insist that this authority remains as it has been before.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate on the bill. We are moving on to the debate on the 7th point of the motion for a decree and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18 6. In 2013, I am now putting to the debate the 7th item and the amendment of the MPs PS, SD, DL and DeSUS and asking if anyone wants to discuss. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. This problem of duality or confusion between the powers of one committee and one commission has been highlighted by the College of the President of the National Assembly. Then, in the coalition, they followed this warning and tried to sort it out in some way. The fact is that the reports of the Court of Auditors are also subject to the responsibility of the Commission for the supervision of public finances in connection with the Public Institute of RTV, with a specific provision in our Rules of Procedure, as set out in Article 39. However, we have had some difficulties in considering the report of the Supervisory Board, as I do not think the Committee on Culture is competent to consider the reports of the supervisory institutions, even as a parent working body, and in particular not the reports of the Court of Auditors. If we look at the conclusions of the Committee on Culture, then it is all about reporting on the Court of Auditors' audit and therefore we have a second working body with us. Of course, there is no problem under our business arrangements that any working body, if assessed as such, also deals with other content, but with another status, is said by the status of the working body concerned. However, when it comes to the reporting of supervisory institutions, this matter is specifically regulated and, under our Rules of Procedure, is the subject of a specific working body. In this case, I believe that it is already after this old decision that there is some disagreement between the decree and the Rules of Procedure, but it is also that some of the Presidents of the National Assembly interpret certain rules very much in their own way. In fact, if someone runs a working body and treats it as a parent working body and takes decisions that are not within the competence of the working body, then in this case it is a violation of the rules of procedure. We also have cases where some of the most pedantic Members of the working body, despite explicit provisions in the Rules of Procedure, do not wish to refer to the urgent meetings of the working body within the prescribed deadlines and so on. In short, there is a problem here, and unfortunately such problems are also caused by members of the coalition groups, and Mrs Potrata is among those who violate the provisions of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Here we must find that individual relationships between working bodies must be properly regulated, in the right way, in a way that does not raise doubts, that they do not allow the same things to be of equal weight, with the same credibility or with the same strength to be decided by two working bodies. For for each area of the National Assembly, we have only one competent or maternal working body. The only exception is matters of the European Union, but they are also specifically regulated there. In the cases that we are talking about, it is also an abuse of the rules of procedure, and it is also an abuse of the nebula, or an account of persons or groups who are probably not fit to be treated; but, indeed, it is. I think that these things need to be handled very precisely in the rules of procedure where they are. However, a decree cannot be made by way of a commercial provision. The law gives certain powers, but not as great as anyone would like, because the consistency of the operation of the Public Institute of RTV in public and non-disclosure financing is being revised by the Court of Auditors. Compliance with the implementation of the programme shall also be reviewed by the Court of Auditors. Thus, the Committee on Culture, when examining audit reports, is relatively [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and it can be dealt with in some substantive way. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this content? This is a problem if you don't have any more time, but you can't discuss it, Mrs. Potter. That is why we will conclude this debate on the amendment. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is an act of defence on the extension of the two Parliamentary investigations into the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system. The proposal to extend the parliamentary investigation was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission of Inquiry. I'm giving mags a word of further explanation. Mark Pogačnik, chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u102	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! The Investigative Commission proposes to extend or supplement the scope of the parliamentary investigation of abuses in the Slovenian banking system by coordinating with the representatives of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll give you an explanation. The relevant parliamentary inquiry into the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system was requested on 30 June. 11. 2012 by Members and Members, where first-signed Member Jože Tanko was. On the 28th day of the European Parliament 11. 2012 The State Council of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders due to the suspicion of involvement in the granting of so-called bad loans to banks in the main state ownership. In doing so, the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia shall be limited to a period from 1. 1. 2005 to 1. 1. 2010 and relates only to loans granted under the New Ljubljana Bank, Shareholders and New Credit Banks, Shareholders. Since there are two requests for parliamentary investigation, which is only part of the determination of the responsibility of public function holders for the period from 1. 1. 2005 to 1. 1. 2010 covered, was 9 years old. 1. A meeting was held with the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the first-signed Members under the request for the parliamentary inquiry in question, where it was agreed that the State Council would send reasoned and reasoned proposals to supplement the parliamentary inquiry in substance, EPA 816 /VI. The Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia is on 21. 2. 2013 gave an initiative to extend the parliamentary inquiry in question, in which he submitted his proposals for the extension of the parliamentary investigation and the powers of Mr Mitjo Bervar, President of the Slovenian National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, to coordinate the text with the parliamentary investigator. At the same time, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia took the view that the State Council would withdraw from the request for a parliamentary investigation order No 020-01/12-32 of 23 November 2013. In the process of coordinating the text for the extension of the parliamentary investigation between the first Member of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Bervar, and the President of the Council of State of Slovenia, Mr Bervar, it was agreed that the parliamentary inquiry in question should be extended to take up the proposals proposed by the Council of State of Slovenia and the content of the decision. The parliamentary investigation will cover the entire period from 1. 1. 1992 until the purpose of the parliamentary investigation, as defined in the request of the parliamentary inquiry in question. We also report that the Parliamentary Commission has unanimously adopted a decision on such enlargement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u104	Respected and respected. At the time of the establishment of the commission of inquiry, we have drawn attention to the fact that it is somewhat defective. Indeed, it was based on the founding act to exclude a specified period, so we are ambitious to have the Commission of Inquiry cover the entire history of the granting of contested loans and the abuse of political influence in doing so gladly supported. The investigative commission has started work, started collecting documentation, and the Social Democrats here repeat our commitment that the investigative commission will begin its in-depth investigation work as soon as possible. It is undeniable that the very extent of poor investment, the high gross external debt of Slovenia, is one of the key if not the most important reason why Slovenia has significantly impaired its economic capacity. Moreover, we now know that this is not only a source of economic but also of public financial problems, and today the state is severely restricting its ability to step more actively and boldly on the path of economic recovery. At a time when we demand people to either increase certain taxes or reduce wage transfers, freeze the growth of pensions to part of their income, it is necessary to hear their clear and loud demand that the State, the National Assembly, and in particular the law enforcement authorities clear up what has happened in Slovenian history, particularly since 2004: an investigation into liability, abuse of political power and everything that has led us to a situation where we have so much bad investment. This requirement is communicated daily by citizens and citizens on social networks with their letters and messages. Unfortunately, though, we are not at the point where such practices would end. We want Social Democrats to come to this point in order to prevent those who have this decisive power from doing so in the future. Therefore, we are not pleasantly surprised by the information that banks are extending and approving new loans to businessmen with an extremely high exposure to these banks. This is the case for people who already have a large amount of loans received, which banks are already treating as bad investments and are still new. The National Assembly, and not the policy, does not have the authority to provide business banks, even though they are state-owned, with their business policies, but in this place let us reiterate our clear commitment to the need to step on such practices. Especially in those cases, when and when it turns out that it is also a non-transparent and illegal political measure. The Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the Act extending the powers and work of the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! It is unnecessary to discuss whether the scope of the parliamentary inquiry in the Investigative Commission on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system is broadened. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that enlargement is necessary in view of the corruption perception index in the survey that Slovenia placed at the end of last year among 176 countries in 37th place. The information that our country is the most corrupt country on the old continent should sober us up. You can imagine, the two million-dollar state is the most corrupt of 727 million people! This is alarming information. But for some, obviously not. Instead of analysing and considering how to start solving the issue, we are dealing with someone who has identified this alarming situation, since we can already track down the criticisms of the methodology used in the study. We talk too much and wonder what politics, supervisory banks, Bank of Slovenia, etc. have been doing. Let's stop using the liabilities! The Supervisory Board didn't do anything. Let us ask ourselves what people have done in these control councils, which have names and who are these people. Bank credits were approved by financial experts with appropriate education and let us ask them once what they were doing. If they're incompetent, have them return their diplomas. If they received bribes, they should be held liable for such acts. But if they bowed down under the pressure of politics, let them say the names and names of those who forced them to do so. Again, politics is nothing to blame. Politics is made up of people. Let's start talking to names and surnames. It is probably not difficult to determine who granted the loan to Binet Kordez, who boasted that the loans for the management takeover of Mercury were given his own good name. The former president of the Association, Mr Svetelšek, said that the tycoons had created banks. Once again, he used liabilities — not banks, people on these banks, and politics! Again, people with names and surnames. The Governor of Banka Slovenije claimed that the supervisors in the largest Slovenian banks had set up policies and decided according to its instructions. The Bank of Slovenia has repeatedly reminded the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the risk management of the two largest Slovenian banks. Well, Mr. Governor, why don't you start by telling us your names and names, who are the supervisors in the banks set up by politics? Who were the subjects of the political elite? Who did you warn in the government? The president, the minister? They both have a name and a last name. And in the end, the protestors on the street tell us that we're all thieves and we're disappointed. Why must we all bear the burden of the corruption of individuals in the economy, politics and banking? Let's just say Bob Bob for once and tell people who are the ones who got the credits and who approved them and what political drive. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the last time to tell people that we are serious, and today let us start the fight against corruption that has apparently anchored in all times of our lives. Why are we waiting for someone to force us to do this? Is this a street or is it a threefold mentioned by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund? That is why we support the extension of the investigation, not with a fig in our pocket, so that we can disable the work of the commission tomorrow. Let us all start working together for the benefit of all citizens of our country and make it impossible for those who care little about our country and who see only personal benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Mr Aljoša Jerič, Group of Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! As my predecessor said, the drafter of the act extending the parliamentary investigation addressed to the National Council in February 2013 an initiative to extend and complete the parliamentary inquiry into the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, which was directed by the National Assembly on the proposal of Members of the previous government coalition. The investigation will be expanded to include all the substantive proposals and the purpose of the State Council's investigation, although some are a little favoured in view of the original proposal, but follow the purpose of the investigation. Most importantly, the investigation will also cover the period from 1 January 2005 to 1 January 2010, which is not currently covered by the investigation. It is worth noting that the problem of bad loans is the most pressing one in banks with large state ownership, since they have the highest share of bad loans in their credit portfolio. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that, following the testimony of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, some of the witnesses interviewed in the parliamentary inquiry conducted by the National Assembly in the previous term, and some of the former bank supervisors in the main state-owned state-owned area, most of these bad loans occurred in 2006, 2007 and 2008, as well as in the year following the year in which the biggest financial crisis started officially after 30 years of the previous century. In order to understand the credit expansion of banks and the granting of so-called loans, it is necessary to know that until the entry into the European Community Slovenia was a net creditor of foreign countries and that changes occurred after the Slovenian currency was included in the euro exchange rate mechanisms or through the introduction of the euro; it is said that banks had gained access to international financial markets and could be indebted at low rates of interest. Slovenia had to reduce interest rates due to its entry into the euro area, which resulted in increased demand for credit and also increased credit activity due to high liquidity. The largest credit expansion took place in 2006, 2007 and 2008. The Slovenian banking system is expected, according to some statements over the three years, to total between 2006 and 2009, to receive several billion euro loans or guarantees for about 200 managers' acquisitions of companies. These loans were secured mainly by securities and the value of the central index of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange decreased by 70 % or more since the end of 2007, resulting in serious consequences for the quality of these insurances or were insured or unsecured only by the so-called "goodwill" or by a good name. Let us remind ourselves of the public statement made by the Bosniak manager Mercury Binet Kordez at the end of 2007 that he received loans for the management takeover of Mercury in his own good name. Since there was a real flood of money at favourable interest rates, the banks were willing to finance almost all the projects they could formally approve. The emphasis is on formal approval, as they also approved loans for projects that were not economically eligible or that required or did not require sufficient insurance to be granted, even though today it appears that they should. Since the money was more than a project, the loans were also granted for projects that pointed to good and easy profits but were risky. The banks therefore underestimated certain risks and the insurance was insufficient. Risk management was insufficient, errors in loan approval processes were not detected and the problem reporting was not or has not been reported until the problems erupted fully into the plan. The fact is that the primary responsibility for the bad operations of banks lies with the management and control bodies, i.e. the administration and the supervisory councils. However, it is not possible or must not ignore the fact that the owners of banks are responsible for poor supervision of their business. Therefore, it is also necessary to establish the responsibility of the owners of the banks. According to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, the supervisors in Slovenia’s largest banks were not competent, but they set up a policy and they complied with it. This, however, did not want to act, although the Bank of Slovenia should have repeatedly reminded the government of the risk of operating both of Slovenia's largest banks in majority state ownership. Therefore, the Governor also allowed certain loans to be granted on a political or friendly basis. The positive Slovenia will therefore support the Act extending the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! Today, we have before us the harmonisation of a specific parliamentary investigation and its addition to what has made it impossible two days earlier to submit a request for a parliamentary inquiry submitted by the Council of State. At the time that this commission of inquiry was set up in January, many of you have observed that, at the request of the SDS, a period that covers in principle the period of the previous government, but these were only malicious speculations, since the rules for determining the parliamentary inquiry are such as to prevent this from being regulated without the applicant's consent. Unfortunately, we lost half a year in this period to this subject-matter harmonisation and, in fact, to the letter of date from that period. Otherwise, this parliamentary inquiry is intended primarily to determine the political responsibility of the members of administrations, supervisory boards and other responsible persons in granting credit. There will also be a finding of abandonment of the necessary professional care or of conduct contrary to this professional care, as well as of the suspension of their duties in the case of public function holders. Here we actually have to find that the banking system has been under political pressure for a long time. Much of what was happening in the banking system has been done under the influence of political bots, in connection with them. Last but not least, from not so long ago, the previous Pahor's government has heard vehement statements from individual responsible ministers, public officials, even the Prime Minister of the Government, that they have done everything that the Stožice project has received the help of the consortium for the improvement of sports work – these words have been spoken in this Chamber! The important role played by public officials in the distribution of bank money is undeniable. Finally, some of the holders of public functions, which were ministers, were formerly, or later, or in between, the governors of the Bank of Slovenia. This transition between Banka Slovenije and the political function or between Banka Slovenije and the business bank entails great risks of privileged decisions, abandonment of prudential behaviour, great caution in granting certain credits and more. We have witnessed a lot of information that many politically important individuals have received favourable loans, loans that have been poorly insured, low interest rates and so on. In short, these names are many, which in one way or another have come to cheap bank money, which is the money of the economy, which is the money of the citizens, is said to be deposits and so on, which has then been redistributed in these ways. That the knowledge that the problems in the banking system were great was also reflected in Borut Pahor's government, after he was no longer Prime Minister, but was running for President of the Republic. At the hearing, he said publicly that they underestimated the problems of the banking system and that they were primarily dealing with other problems. This knowledge is, in fact, difficult because any government has already been, especially that government that was in crisis when these favourable circumstances of growth and spillage into public treasury and banks increased, at that time there was a great deal of secrecy. However, at a time of crisis when this tide of economic growth is falling, when the tide is coming down, many fours of them appear. In the banking system, these four definitely showed up. The consequences of the problems of the banking system are also problems in the economy, in companies. All those who were Members in the mandate of the Prime Minister, Borut Pahor, we know that at the time we adopted two or three laws, the so-called guarantee schemes for helping the economy in difficulty. However, at the final stage, all that was then packed under a guarantee scheme for aid to a small or large economy was intended only to bring additional money into the banking system. This was not intended to provide economic assistance to companies in difficulty, except for selected groups. This money was essentially intended to provide a kind of silent provision of an appropriate capital fund so that banks could perform or pass through these cores. It turned out that this was not enough, for during all this period banks also needed to be recapitalised; large, with large amounts, several times. In these recapitalisations, there has never been an opportunity for a debate to be held in the National Assembly or elsewhere on the appropriateness of the banking system. All that was to be done was simply covered with so - called bank secrecy, bank secrecy, and some winged capital that would disappear if we talked too much about it, or if we were to expose too much of the problems of our banking system. But despite the fact that such a debate was blocked – one of the predecessors of the current President of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar, did not even wish to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to address the problems of the banking system. Thus, in some ways, the debate on the problems of the banking system was systematically blocked. When we had a discussion in the National Assembly about these problems in the banking system a few months ago, in fact, we were unable to reach any important information at the closed meeting on what was happening in the banks, who were the recipients of the privileged loans, in a privileged way, of the banking assets who were the ones who approved it. The Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who is the chief supervisor of the banking system, refused to talk about this in this way; we could not even get to the cumulative data. There were several numbers of a large bank hole, everyone said that this was calculated on one or the other methodology, but that someone would say how much of what was in a non-transparent way, in a privileged way, with political support went out of the banking system, nobody wanted to say it. While there are some lists today, some media have published them on how many debts have been left by individual companies in bankruptcy in the banking system. Some wrote enormous amounts, 50, 70, 100, over 100 million, 200 million, and none of those who signed it on the bank side, and none of those who received it on the business side actually happened. Not in this segment. Although we now have before us the handling of certain trials against certain so-called tycoons, such as in the area of construction, but for some of the wealth there on the tower. I do not recall, however, that any process would take place in these specific cases of bank holes. It's not! None of the bankers are processed, the most responsible, best paid people in this country – no one is processed. None of those who have prepared explanations for these bankers and justifications for those business plans or economic laboratories on the basis of which these funds were approved are subject to sanctions. Nor did the bank’s responsible persons do anything to their employees if they found that these laboratories were in some way adapted to some targeted, selected recipient of the bank credit. Nothing happened. The Bank of Slovenia, which is the main auditor of the banking system, has done nothing to ensure that the Bank of Slovenia is able to give or take licences to bankers. No one among us remembers that Banka Slovenije would take away any banker in this country's license to perform their duties. She's not here! Now we are faced with the demands to resolve the banking system in fact to save those whose faces are hidden, in some way we do not even know them. Who do we all know was on the boards of one bank, another bank, third bank, or fifth bank? Who was their supervisor? Who gave these people such powers? Nothing's done! There are no measures within the banks that have been taken into account in the problems that we then covered with tax money with budgetary money, no measures by those who should supervise these things, namely the Bank of Slovenia. However, the political part was systematically excluded from this control. Even today, it is said that decisions in banks are made on the basis of telephone calls, that we have people there in the administrations who decide or accept, transfer what someone may order from another tower. And nothing happens! We have set up an investigative commission to finally start dealing with bank loans, including leasings, including poor investments in or outside the country, especially in the Balkans, but we must find that this commission has serious problems. The institutions that are requested to possess documents should be the Bank of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia, and, most oddly, when asked by the Commission to prevent corruption for information on what they have found regarding bank control and the risk of corruption, do not transmit documents! What is most surprising is that this is not done by the Commission to prevent corruption, which has so much to say about transparency, transparency and these matters with officials and also with others under their supervision. That's sad. Apparently, some things are more verbal in nature, more pianistic in nature. If the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has not forwarded a report to the National Assembly, which would have determined the political involvement of the officials in the bad operation of the banking system since 1992, at least since 2004 when we have this commission, or since then what it has, then we cannot really talk about going into an investigation into corruption, but we can talk about the symbiosis of the policy, part of the policy and of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. About an incredibly great co-existence. Rather than being persecuted by these external reports as regards the state of corruption assessments in the country, in order to respond to the reviewers, to pursue a step forward in order to identify the political responsibility to correct legislation where it is necessary, the documentation of what the Commission has found will not be provided. Neither what the Bank of Slovenia found, nor what was happening within the banking system. It's hard to say here that everyone in this country has the same goal. It is said that we want to establish good foundations, transparent foundations, transparent operations, effective supervision, but if the key supervisory institutions do not participate in what is supposed to be the subject of a parliamentary investigation. By the way, they have not done anything concrete in this area; nothing concrete since we do not know that any process against any responsible person in this country would be initiated from the banking field. Could be mediated, I don't know, on law enforcement, maybe. But given how these things are approached, it probably doesn't happen. We are daily familiar with big stories about the risks of corruption with a few hundred or thousands of euros when it comes to some officials – and there are assumptions. Here, where there is complete documentation, where the files are signed, where you can see who approved who and how much and where it went, nothing happens. Clearly, the problem is that some in this country are different from others. We have institutions – to drive a lot of investigators against the "birdhouse", against someone who has not paid 200, 300 euros of what kind of benefits or hidden some small money, there we can team up when it comes to problems of big crime, white collars, systemic corruption, planned corruption is virtually nothing. As we can see, these transfers of files that should and should happen, from business banks in the majority state-owned state to the so-called management company or bad bank – things are going on here too slowly. Also, what we received in the National Assembly and what the Government has accepted, the coalition has accepted on the sale of state property is worth its money. This is also true in this context, given how this package has been approached with a label of systemic corruption risk. What was prepared as a basis for initiating the privatisation request procedure was prepared by the Janša Government, which could be rejected here. At that time, it was also requested that there be no explanation for the need to prepare additional explanations for the need to identify and calculate, when selling state property, the objectives of sales, the effects on the state budget and other companies that will remain state-owned and so on. At this point we have none of this; this coalition has prepared nothing; it has only prepared a list of what will be sold; it has sold with political support. The National Assembly will vote on these sales, which means that those who will somehow politically process these sales will also be provided with the basis that perhaps people, as Mr Luksic says, with sticky fingers – will be given political support. The bigger the problem, the sooner you try to sell state property, the more there are bank claims in one part – you will process it in some way. I don't think that's a good trip. Among these items found on the sales list is Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, practically one of the largest banking patients in this part. At this bank was the supervisor of the government. Now I ask many responsible policies here, whether it means the inclusion of the New Credit Bank of Maribor on this list, which has no basis, just a decision to cover the dust of all decisions in the New Credit Bank of Maribor. The moment the bank is sold – it can be fast, maybe not – means that there will be no more responsibility for any decision because the new owner will come and he will be glad that maybe this bank got cheap and he will not be interested in past actions. In this way, the listing of New Credit Bank Maribor is part of this process of transparency or lack of transparency and a high risk of corruption. I would like to know how the members of the current coalition, such as from Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, would react if, for example, Mr Janša's supervisor were in this bank, and after taking over the government, he would put the bank on the list for sale. What would be the reaction of Alenka Bratusek, say, in such a case. I think that's an important question. What is happening with the activities in the sale of companies, what is happening with the non-participation of institutions in this commission of inquiry is worth the attention. The public expects because it also pays, after all, that responsibility will be established in this area, because it was probably a responsibility and was also richly rewarded at a time when we had administrations there, one or another, and supervisors from such or other logs and winds. That's what we need to find out. If it was cute and beautiful back then, it should be now. I propose, publicly, that I give the public initiative that institutions, those in the supervisory process, this is what the banking system is called the Bank of Slovenia, the business banks, including the Anti-Corruption Commission and other authorities with these data, respond to the investigative committee's calls, provide documentation that they have in place so that they can finally begin the process of verifying responsibility for a few billion-dollar bank holes in that country. It didn't come from itself. On all sides and in all ends, people with names and surnames and names and surnames, names and surnames must come to their place, and they must finally be held accountable. As regards the enlargement of the investigative commission, we will support it in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. We have thus concluded with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. There are some changes here, so I'm going to read the first few debaters. Mr Srečko Meh, Ivan Vogrin, and here we have Mr Jože Jerovšek, who will be the first discusser, followed by Borut Ambrožič and then by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Madam President, colleague and colleague! Unfortunately, one of the key themes of this House is in the relatively small interest of Members and Members. But we all know how vital it is to clear up or at least break through the threshold of the subject as to how our banking system is being robbed. I have repeatedly stressed the position or the word of Dr Urban Vehovar, which I think has been said in a radio broadcast for two years now, that a crime has taken place in our banks. There has indeed been a crime against Slovenians, citizens and citizens of this country! This crime will cause the next generation to suffer. I am afraid that there is still a continuing interest in this country that this crime will not be investigated as it never is and there is no crime of genocide and war crime between war and war. Unfortunately, I must say that some of the same structures stand firm for this crime not to be investigated. These structures have long since taken this country into conflict and power. These structures are extremely powerful in controlling it and in their interest – we can understand it. They have adopted a country, partly through the policies of some parties, and partly from the background with capital power. These structures will do everything to ensure that this crime will not be investigated or investigated in a form such as Satex's case, where the overture to these mafia businesses occurred, where the case with exceptional assistance from the judiciary and these structures of the year was granted, despite the fact that thousands of loans were granted, despite the fact that, in strange circumstances, a banker had been fatally incapacitated to do so when she realized that she was working under the orders of superior illegals and she had warned about it and was clearly removed from the world as a witness. Today's extension of the mandate of the Commission of Inquiry to the mandate of the period during the Janša government. We would have formed this committee from the very beginning if it had not been in the midst of a proposal from the Council of State that made it impossible for us to do so. This coalition has so far been extremely successful and deliberately misused to prevent this commission from being blocked by us, to investigate this period as well. I'm telling you, I was the first member of the parliamentary group to propose this investigative committee deep down, even before the presidential elections, and then we're the State Council, and they've probably made a run for it. I'm sorry. But it didn't occur to me that they wouldn't have investigated the entire period. This abuse, when you put a segment into the investigation, is systematic. You also poison the Slovenian public by making investigative commissions lame. And the Members help with that! This is a classic institution of parliamentary democracy, which is a political investigation that can also be used in many ways. You're systematically blocking it with statements and I'm sorry, I think one of the young parties is also saying they're not effective. Yes, of course, if there is such a philosophy, then they cannot be effective enough! If everything is made to fail, as it has already been said, they cannot be constructed, although this is a sacred matter all over the world, even in America, when the Commission of Inquiry was seemingly investigating Clinton’s personal offenses. But the sanctity of politicians is no longer there, you have to put everything on the table. But this is a crime that has taken place against the people. Now ask yourself, ‘ Will you help us to keep what has been read? ’ With all due respect, and I regret to say that in the Group of Positive Slovenia this topic is represented by colleague Jerič. I don't know, it may be the biggest expert in this area, I don't know, but I don't think it's the second time that it's the sacrificial lamb, that it has to do what the Group disagrees with or convene a meeting in a way that violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He must perform here — I have no objection to the content — so that others can deny and deny and disregard what has been said. I think it's the arrogant exploitation of a colleague and I'm sorry that he came to the National Assembly to be abused and he's a scapegoat. So let it be cleared up, or everything that is written in these points. Let me stress again, even if a fish is caught that someone will say is near my client — let it be clear! For this matter, this robbery and the crime in the banks will have long-term disastrous consequences for the next generation. Even so, even if we clear up, these people have taken the enormous amounts of money currently in tax havens and elsewhere. With this, they will pick up our now destitute and devalued assets through the straw people. With this, the next generation of Slovenians will be "beating". They'll get capital rights on the basis of the robbery. Once again, it is not true that this could not have been foreseen. This has been foreseen even by the Council of Europe in that resolution that I quoted yesterday, and I will again today. In 1996, when he said that if countries did not break down the levers and mechanisms of the totalitarian regime, that the same people would control ahead – in fact the banks controlled the same people, indirectly and with extended hands – "then," they wrote, "there will be an oligarchy in such countries instead of democracy, corruption instead of rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights." There has been an extremely well-organised organised crime in banks, which, as stated in this resolution, rules this country. We know that it was commissioned, not Pahor — I suppose he had sincere intentions — could not have come to this dragon across. Janša’s government, as I have said many times, made the biggest mistake because it did not have the power to replace the then bank director Kramar and Kovacic in Maribor. The media was buzzing, everyone was saying that they were the best managers when it was supposed that maybe the Yanshe government would replace these directors. What are they gonna do? They will destroy the future of Slovenia, they spoke because they are the best! They're the best, they took the millionth prize for themselves! They feel for the best themselves. I have already asked the question twice in this regard, and the management of banks, the Court and similar awards for the successful management of property continue to be approved. These bloodsuckers are moving forward and the coalition is supporting them. The coalition supports this, even though they're bloodsuckers! For at the moment when the loser is in some company and banks – think about the approval of the prizes! In the state banks, the Ljubljana Bank, enormous awards were made through membership in the supervisory councils outside Slovenia, in the exposures of LBH Frankfurt, New York, Sarajevo – I do not know where they have already been removed. All those who were members of the boards were supervisory saints there, and there they shared enormous annual awards for membership in the supervisory world, in all years practically – when, you ask me. It goes on and on and on and on. This is a dragon that has not yet been able to cut off a single head! Unfortunately, this was peacefully followed by the National Bank of Slovenia, which has the power to say the end to bad loans. I don't think it's necessary to be a banker that every normal person in this country knew that these loans wouldn't be paid off. But they were dumb-eyed and admiring. That part of the policy always approves of it because they're putting something back in their pocket for people like that. And it's a hand wash. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm begging you not to say another word against investigative committees because you're spitting in your own bowl in our bowl. Had it not been for the first Pukšič Parliamentary Commission, then Elan would have been sunk. Then they got scared, then they left him in Slovenian hands again. Yes, ma'am, you look so strange, of course I know that! Had it not been for the Vice-Holmec parliamentary commission, which I myself led, the Slovenian soldiers would have ended up in a war crimes court in The Hague. That was the point. They organised people who are mentioned by the Council of Europe resolution – that there will be a mafia and organised crime and an oligarchy! In all these cases, there are the same people in the back; from decade to decade. And I, my fellow Members, trust most of you that you have submitted yourself for fair purposes to the elections and have been elected and that you will represent this robbed people here. But some of the signs show bad. I warned the former Minister of Križanič, behind the pay phone, from here on, many times: "How can you give the president of the New Credit Bank of Maribor a man who is a guaranteed wolf over sheep and will devour them," because I experienced him in a factory and I know he made a financial and capital empire from directing state companies, in 100% state ownership. And then you put a person like that in charge! There was Mrs. Bratuškova next to her, she held the candle and the stall. I asked her several times if she had ever responded to what was going on there. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, at least with this extension, devote ourselves to this space, in what way they have approved what these networks have been like. If a person wrote like that, over his thumb, he would hit 80 percent because everyone in Slovenia knows what these ideological, political connections are and how they were done and who had the power in these relationships. You're condemning our option, but I'm sure that scavengers, careers, corrupts have joined our client, but more than ten percent of the influence and power and resources have not been gained. Perhaps because of this, some were holding the staff — because of the change! You should also say I hear a lot of things. These people, these criminal groups, will do anything; they are willing to get people out of the way. That's why when the investigative commission gets in trouble, when they really threaten to take protection, because they're going to use all the methods. But I hope that we will speed up these investigative commissions, ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not block it. Here I see that when there are such points, the first kind of Positive Slovenia is never here. What does that mean? That the Hives are the main thing to solve? Does that mean anything?Oh, my God! Colleagues and colleagues, I think the Slovenian public will look at us to follow this committee, especially if the media are not ordered to throw pollen at its feet, to discredit it, to discredit the commission of inquiry systematically. If we stop this, then I think we are going to start glowing in the darkness with a lamp – but this will be extremely difficult work, because they will do everything to make it unsuccessful to protect their interests. We've been talking about the court for two days now. Unfortunately, the judiciary has not been successful in this area, all of which would not have been if the judiciary had reacted in those initial corruption cases if it had been to the end, including the repressive authorities, if this had been stopped at that time. But it's not because people were dedicated back, from politics, from politics, from politics, and so on. Let me also say that Mr Kordez was convicted first, but it seems very strange to me that he did not now speak either of the complaint, nor of anything that he has accepted the role of the victim, so that others can continue to work in peace. What kind of agreement has been reached here?Oh, my God! I don't know, but at this point, I thought his reactions were a little bit strange, and so again, I say, these things are very sensitive, but they are important for this country and next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr Jerič, you can't have a replica, you haven't discussed it yet, you've only had a presentation of the position of the delegation. [[...]] But then you'll have the opportunity to go on as a discusser. Mr. Ambrožich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Sometimes there is less, so let me just express my support for the proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system and not so much about finding the reasons for who proposed what and when, since it is important that we now have a formal proposal to investigate the entire period of lending in the Slovenian banking system and, consequently, to identify those responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The next discusser is Marijan Pojbič, then Alenka Jeraj and Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam Vice President! I will quote one part of the proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary inquiry written by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, President of this Commission, for the reason that we should once again give the Slovenian public some important details. So, I quote: "Parliamentary investigation will cover the whole period of 1. 1. 1992 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry, as defined in the case of the parliamentary inquiry in question." So this means that this parliamentary investigation will take place for the entire period of Slovenia. So that we wouldn't hear again from certain media once again that certain periods are being omitted. This seems extremely important to me that the Slovenian public knows this. Furthermore, I quote: "In determining the role and responsibility of the members of the administration – abandonment of professional care or conduct contrary to professional care – the suspension of individual public function holders is also noted in the case of public function holders. In addition, enlargement also determines whether any person involved has obtained a non-profit advantage, in addition to the property in the original case. In addition, the purpose of the parliamentary investigation shall be supplemented by taking into account all the parliamentary investigations so far determined in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which have been directly or indirectly addressed by the guarantees or credits dealt with in this investigation, with loans and guarantees being treated for the entire period under the same criteria and proportionately." At the same time, the purpose of the investigation is also complemented by "the assessment of whether the policy has done everything in its power and competence to avoid the situation in the banking sector". So, I am sure that this parliamentary inquiry is extremely important and absolutely necessary. We all know very well and very well the situation in the banking system in our country, and I am sure that it is not in the National Assembly and there is almost no Slovenian and Slovenian who would not have thought about whether it is possible that this country could have been a rhubarb of the century and that they did not have backdropped the uncles from the background or one part of the policy. Whoever I ask in this country, almost everyone is convinced that it must be in the background of a policy or an uncle from a background that is linked to certain political options. This is what is extremely worrying, that is what is unacceptable, which is unacceptable and harmful for our citizens and citizens. If we look back at just a few things, what kind of people and who received credits and received them in extremely non-transparent ways, without significant guarantees and so on; these were, in particular, those people who had in the background of the connection, the connections of political bots or individual political options. This parliamentary inquiry, thank God, has the opportunity to reveal these links and those swine that you can't otherwise name. If you remember – and I am sure of that – when it came to the collapse of the government of John Janša, it came precisely and mainly because it had prepared an appropriate law, where, in addition to identifying who and how it had received the credit, it had also identified the responsibility of those who had granted such loans in such a non-transparent and irresponsible manner. This was one of the key reasons and it is right for the Slovenian public to know this. One of the key reasons why a team was gathered at that time, which we call a coalition today, which assisted those who prevented at least a period of time from getting what is urgently needed here, is that these things are cleared up. Today, when we look at these things that are happening again in our country, we can see and even read in some media where they say that you are giants – I still say that they are giants – the giants from individual banks, maybe even from NLB, hire boats – and so on I don't know what else – and they are discussing business there. Yes, holy God! Is this normal in these circumstances when these banks and these bankers have practically wasted everything that's possible? They practically destroyed Slovenia, destroyed Slovenia to the ground, and with such excuses, and in such an untransparent, corrupt and rhubaric way — I hope — they did what they did. The National Assembly, the legislative branch of power, the judicial branch of power and all these authorities here must do something that cannot happen. Then we have an example of someone who also writes in newspapers, who already has around €41 million credits up to there, which are very questionable, which are highly likely to never be returned, now has another €750,000 in new credit. I'm asking you nicely, do we really not know where to live, not to see it and not to get on with it? On the other hand, we even have a bunch of entrepreneurs, craftsmen and natural persons who can't get a dime! But some who have political connections in the back and most likely share commissions, because these loans, which were shared, as my colleague Jerovšek said, certainly did not just share in beautiful eyes. I do not have to prove this, but the fact is that if any of our citizens or citizens were asked, I would tell you and confirm the following: these people definitely did not operate without commissions. And please, how long will our people allow this?Oh, my God! How long will it take us in the National Assembly to watch and let them do this? How long? Again you hear that the Ljubljana Bank Assembly has decided to recapitalise around 500 million, a Mariborian approximately 400 million. Dear colleagues and colleagues, where is this money we're going to put back there to flush through the night?Oh, my God! To such individuals who have robbed this country and most of our citizens and citizens, who today are living extremely badly because of this. Not to mention those who had to sacrifice some of the funds that were socially endangered. Let's not talk about pensioners. Let's not talk about entrepreneurs, craftsmen and so on, because today they don't get those basic few thousand euros so they can do business, they shut down their businesses, and people come to the employment office. [[...]] I am sure that this parliamentary investigation will prove that something is actually wrong in this system and that they have the assistance of certain policy structures here. It's been a while since we've cut this out in this country, and we've ended up with this shit. How do you imagine that people again from their pensions, from their salaries and entrepreneurs with all these higher taxes and everything that this government is planning, will continue to give money for us to put in banks and banks will spend that money in such a way that they have already spent it? How long do you believe this is going to happen? Did that coalition fall asleep? Are you even capable of listening to our people? They say to you all the time, "Stop burdening us all over again and again." With all these taxes, I'm not talking about cadastral income, I'm not talking about real estate tax, and I'm not going to list it. I'm sure even the media assistant here won't help this coalition! People will miss it! It's just not possible! Not to mention the new higher penalties – everywhere you look, the new higher penalties themselves. Who's gonna pay for it if people can't and have nothing to live on? Does this coalition really not hear what's going on around it? Are those lobbying so important and so powerful in the background that they also keep politics within the National Assembly in their chess? I hope and believe that most politicians sitting in the National Assembly are not the ones to be held behind them, and if that is not the case, then it is necessary and necessary — which I am convinced — that we are also able to bring these things to the altar of justice as soon as possible and that people will not be locked up without any evidence, but those who have stolen hundreds and thousands of millions of millions in this country, but who enjoy freedom, enjoy themselves as little gods, end up receiving millions of euros and so on and so on. Do you think the Slovenian people can't see this? To this Slovenian people, those who work for us who are here in the National Assembly, and those bankers who enjoy it there with these ships and those boats, that these people don't see it? I'll tell you again, even media assistants in these matters will not be helping anyone for much longer. Nobody in this country! People have this bag full of stuff and it's all over their heads. The fact is that a policy in this country will have to draw a line under these pigs once. I am sure - as much as the Slovenian Democratic Party and all Members and also some other opposition parties have now and recently engaged - that this is the right way and the only way. I think that the moment will come when they will be in the elections – who will, whenever they will – people know this in the right way and give their voice to those who work for this Slovenian nation, not to those who destroy this Slovenian nation. Thank God that until the next elections is no longer too long, because I think that with these new taxes and all that you are preparing now, Slovenia will soon be over. And far from what you promised when you took over the leadership of this country – new jobs. Where are the new jobs, I ask you! Where? It is easy to speak, it was easy when you were in the opposition to say: this must be done, this must be done. Now you have enough time to show what you know. And – what did you show? You have shown that you can burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, on the income side, you have only grown by producing and producing new taxes and new burdens for our people. Nothing else! That's what people are going to say for once: It's over! For the end, just one more sentence. It was just yesterday that an interesting meeting took place with a minister, where the union people from a company located in my environment, Paloma, came to the minister. He took time — not even 15 minutes — to talk to them about the situation he was in and about our economy. This is incredible, irresponsible and I think that such governments and such ministers do not deserve our citizens and citizens. To conclude, I am sure that this parliamentary investigation will lead to the point where it is urgently needed to ensure that those who have caused the rhabaria of the century also face judges once and that they are also legally convicted of taking the full assets that they have received in this account. This has to happen. I am sure that the Slovenian Democratic Party here will do everything in its power to achieve this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally, Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u118	Madam President, I very much ask you to remind the speakers in the Chamber that we are discussing a parliamentary inquiry into the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and that we are not on the market and that all the history of the Slovenian people would now be dealt with here, all the scoundrels that have occurred in the past. Please inform speakers of this to stick to the proposed topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Now that I've taken over the session, I'll be warning you about that when I'm in charge. Mr Matevž Frangež has the following word. I see he's not here. Mr. Aljoša Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At the same time, I thank Mr Jerovšk for taking such great care of me. I hope that's how he'll continue. But I would like to warn you about his observation, about my level of financial or other expertise. In this matter, as you rightly mentioned – we are talking about the abuses that have occurred in Slovenian banking – I do not think it is particularly necessary to not know what degree of expertise we are talking about when we are talking about poorly secured credits, about the illicit influence of politics. So I don't know, maybe this is so difficult for you, but you think that some degree of financial expertise is required. Otherwise, I will also thank him for his statement that he agrees with my content, because I think that the main issue, which we need to debate, is the content of the proposals and the laws that we are currently debating. I would add, however, that I may have disagreed with some content of his debate, and I hope that it will also allow me to continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Jerovšek has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I'm glad my colleague Jerič reacted the way he did. I said I was afraid he was a scapegoat. At least I understood him. I literally spoke affirmatively. On such an important matter, I would expect Mr Möderndorfer, the leader of the parliamentary group, to have significantly more knowledge of what was going on in the financial system, including through his President Jankovic, and that he would have with authority that Positive Slovenia is behind this – now that you say you are no longer dependent on the former President, but he is not. I don't think he's cooperating in these matters, and I think he's got a mission, back through the levers of the background, we know where he's gonna block it, break it down, disable it. Especially since he has no interest in what is happening to Slovenia, when we see that he does not even know what a threesome is, he is the leader of the largest party in the country. That's what they call living in another world. That is why I have also reacted in this way that I have said that credibility, weight must be given, not that you are not credible, but that the weight of what the investigative commission will do to support it. Today, I see that this weight is trying to take away from her in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u124	Dear President, colleague, colleague! Very briefly, I now expect Members and Members, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, to follow this amendment and you will also support this proposal, which has been tabled by the Commission of Inquiry. Personally, I expect the Commission of Inquiry to pursue its objectives, even though we have initially encountered certain problems in obtaining data, but it is certainly the main mission, probably our commission of inquiry, to follow the legislation itself. In conclusion, I would only consider that the law on investigative commissions has been in force since 1993 and that it would probably be worth considering amendments and additions to this law. I also expect from all the members of the commission of inquiry concrete work and I think that the task of all of us here is to pursue these goals and to try, with quality and quality work, to reach the goal and to determine whether there has been an irregularity in the Slovenian banking system since 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. He does. So, I'm opening an application for debate. The application shall be made. Two panellists have been reported, each panellist has 5 minutes of time available. The first is Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I was going to, but I did not say in a regular debate; that is, that we are clear to everyone in this country, that when the European Commission takes measures taken by the Slovenian Government, when it has recently decided on bad loans, transfer to a bad bank or bank to manage these bad investments, it does not trust the national bank and the data. Clearly, this bank hole is even greater than we have the impression and we know ordinary mortals, and so do we Members of the National Assembly. Indeed, we can rightly suspect that this is the case, because I know that Janša’s government has not received — even though the government owns — data from banks. She didn't get it. The National Bank behaved unsupervisedly all the time, the Central Bank. I believe that the current government has a better relationship than any other government, and all those strong people have more of a connection in the background of some of the parties here, but the official data is probably not the right one. And the European Union does belong to Slovenia, obviously. They know that this financial oligarchy is a state in the country that controls the services of the State, that it is a state. Of course, we must all fight this para-state if we are still able to save ourselves from the clutches of this para-state and the financial oligarchy. For you know, with such purchases of free money you buy a lot of things, you bribe a lot of people, you do something to block a lot of things when you should react. That's what happens every day. It also happens that the most insolvent person by credit, Mr Pogacar, gets new credits – even the SD Group of Members has found that out. That the bank's management shall, at the moment of recommencement of the fictitious consulting contracts. How is that possible? These people think of themselves as deities, I wonder. They think of themselves as deities and that they are above us, citizens of this country, so that no one can touch them alive, that they are gods. It seems that after the receipts are gods — those who have committed this bank robbery can rightly view themselves as gods and will regulate the fates of the Slovenians, and these fates of the Slovenians will unfortunately be bad. If we, as Parliament and the institution of the State, do not force them, we will not force the government to place credible people in the supervisory councils and not in the same way as it did last week when it shook foreigners because it is afraid of transparency – the current government. Let the government tell me who they're protecting again. Who are they protecting? Which people can't come to the scene with their crimes? They can't come before the people! Apparently, it was this intervention to protect people. A member of the former supervisory board — I think it is from Norway — said that transparency is clearly not possible in this country. If we did not have bad experience – but continue to be those people who are then called part of the network – then I would say that it is not fair to those who have been named, because we do not have any information, except for Mr Arhar, whom I appreciate and I think he was appointed as a fig leaf to make it look credible, but most will make a different decision. And she'll protect it further. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sorry that the European Union is a tutor now, because we have destroyed our positions ourselves. But he's right, he doesn't trust, and he obviously has information that is in Brussels, but it's not in Slovenia for the public, what is it? [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's done. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I don't even know why we're discussing so much time today, because I know that none of the members of this group opposes the extension of the investigation. It seems to me that these are more public performances than the topic of this agenda item. Let me say that I am very much in favour of this parliamentary inquiry. However, I am very opposed to criminalising our client, who has only come to the National Assembly in this term. I've said many times that some of you, with your discussions, say self-criticism for your actions for 12, 16, 20 years and so on. I worked alone for 39 years in the economy, and as a taxpayer, I spent money on paying for such nonsense. It seems to me that in such a serious matter, the parliamentary commission of inquiry should be expected in particular to answer some outstanding questions. One of these is that I have not received a reply in the National Assembly twice, who was the one who prevented late Minister Bajuk from enforcing the Guarantees Act, which should have entered into force on 1 January 2007, but did not come into force until one year later. Under this law it was envisaged that, as guarantees, as guarantees, they could not afford shares of those companies that were bought. If we look at history, we will see that most of the so-called tycoon credits were given from the banking system in 2007, just when this should have been prevented. Of course, Mr Bayuk cannot answer today, but I must tell him for his sake and also those who supported him that he wanted to prevent it. At that time, most of these loans were granted, including some such loans, which had nothing to do with those loans that were later granted. Loans were granted for the largest tycoon stories in Slovenia and for the ownership of businesses without their money. I hope that the parliamentary commission will also find out. That's one thing. Second thing. During all these periods, the banks had their own supervisory councils, their own administrations, their names and names, and this is not difficult to determine, for which there is no need to obtain anything special. We can only go back to see who led the supervisory councils, who was in the supervisory councils, and who was on the bank’s boards. By the way, at the head of the lending sector at Nova Ljubljanska Banka, he was always a member of the administration of the former owner of the bank, which came out of ownership this year, the Belgian NCB. He was the main one who led the approval of credits to the economy in Slovenia as well as wider. I hope that we will also get answers from Belgium to some questions. Otherwise, I have to say that I really don't see, I repeat, I see no reason to draw this today, that is, longer than all the previous points, mainly with a view to some political accounting, when no one really knows with whom and why. In the end, maybe this heat outside is really wrong and I could only conclude by saying, "Qui bene bibit bene dormit, qui bene dormit non pecat, qui non pecat, exercise and caelum, ergo, qui bene bibit, exercise and caelum."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-19-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 9, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 and Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation, I find that the National Assembly has ordered an extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and to establish and assess the actual situation for determining the liability of holders of public functions on the grounds of suspicion that they have participated in the supervision of the Slovenian banking system and in the direct or direct influence through State ownership or through State authorities and regulators on decisions in the Slovenian banking system concerning the approval of write-offs, cashed guarantees and loan policies, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations on the approval and management of credits and bank guarantees and the suspicion that there have been undetected negative consequences of such acts. The proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary investigation is set out in the proposal to extend the parliamentary investigation submitted by the Investigation Commission on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and in the Act extending the scope of the parliamentary investigation that you have received. The extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation is thus determined. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 15th session, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Hello!
