ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Polonca Komar, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mr Mitja Meršol, Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Richard Braniselj. I invited the President of the Government, the Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia to the 6th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 12 April 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. However, we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following an agreement at the 50th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, held on 19 April 2013, I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 13th session be extended by means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble, an urgent procedure. You received an extension proposal on Friday, 19 April 2013. Does the urgent procedure request an additional representative of the Government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I am opening the possibility of applying on behalf of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Franc Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues, President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, and the rest present! In the Slovenian People's Party, we would be much more pleased to discuss how to manage these investments than to adopt a revision of the Slovenian State Holding Act, as well as to support this law, at this meeting of the National Assembly. I think that this correction of the Slovenian State Holding Act is going into some parts of the right solutions and solves some complications, and the key problem is that this law will not guarantee what has been said many times last year – transparency in the management of Slovenian state property. Thus, in some ways, if such a law is adopted, it will be paralysed to the previous adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Instead of adopting the starting points and guidelines for managing state property in the National Assembly, this largely moves to the Government and the Slovenian Compensation Society, which performs this important task at the time of the adoption of the classification of state property management. We firmly believe that this is the wrong direction. We know there are problems in the operationality of this law. There were also demands by the opposition last year for this to be introduced. At that time, the coalition agreed to provide an insight into what we are doing with state assets. On the other hand, we have a major problem with paralyzing this law and leaving it to the Government and the Slovenian Compensation Society. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will therefore oppose the proposal to put such a law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u4	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we will support the proposal to extend the agenda so that the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble is already being considered at this meeting. In doing so, we would like to stress that we will continue to support all companies systematically and not in part. On the other hand, we also expect an analysis because this law has been in force for 10 years, and we would like to review which companies have already benefited from the mechanisms envisaged by this law and how many of them have been flushed or helped to maintain jobs in our area. Of course, we also hope that there will be clear guidelines here, that matters under this law will be in line with the European legal order and that we will not be told the story of Elena again. As it is said, the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code will support the enlargement of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by the mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly, colleagues, colleagues! Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal to expand the agenda and further decide how we will proceed, but of course we will raise clear questions on the Committee on the Economy. We expect specific issues and concrete answers, which are why this amendment of legislation is adopted, in particular what this means for companies whose companies will be able to participate in this project, while at the same time drawing attention to the lack of consistency of the coalition, by rejecting the classifications and guidelines of the Slovenian State Holding, as we estimate that these matters are deeply intertwined and would probably be more meaningful, efficient and cost-effective in order to adopt these classifications and guidelines and to start managing state assets more efficiently, economically, responsibly. We will support the proposal for an extension of the agenda, and on other matters we will see what clarifications will be made today by the proposalers on the Committee on the Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, too. I conclude the debate on the proposal to extend the agenda and move on to decision-making. Given that this is today's first decision, please check the voting devices. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 3. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider that proposal to be 2A on Wednesday, 24 April 2013, following the end of item 2 of the agenda. We are taking the lead in the decision on the agenda as a whole, and we must decide on the request for a decision on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 49th meeting on 12 April 2013 that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Slovenian State Holding should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are therefore moving on to the request that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Slovenian State Holding following an urgent procedure. First, I give my word to the representative of the applicant of the Magi request. Mark Pogačnik to present the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly, colleagues, colleagues! The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 49th meeting, on 12. 4. He decided that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act should be dealt with on an urgent basis. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the SDS Group shall require that that decision be decided by the College of State. The following decision is explained by the words: The Coalition rejected the proposal to classify the investments of the Slovenian State Holding and the proposal for guidelines for managing SDH investments. At the same time, the government or coalition announced that it would soon sell some major state-owned companies. By rejecting the guidelines and classifications and the provisions proposed in this amendment, the supervisory role of the National Assembly in the sale of State property has been eliminated, thus opening up the possibility of harmful and non-transparent sales. It also applies to the non-consistency of the largest coalition party, since the proposed amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act did not include provisions which, at the time of adoption of the legislation, were the conditions for the withdrawal of signatures for the referendum in the Slovenian State Holding, such as the provision of access to information of a public nature, the commitment to the application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the greater role of the opposition in the Supervisory Council, the unanimous decision of the Supervisory Board in the event of increases in basic capital in companies where the Slovenian State Holding has a capital investment. If there was no agreement, it would be decided by the competent body of the National Assembly. We will not support the law by means of an urgent procedure because of all the said Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Let me inform you that there is no debate and no explanation for this request, so we are moving on to a decision. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Slovenian State Holding Act shall be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 28. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 28.]] I find that the law will be dealt with in an urgent manner. The decision is therefore adopted. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, that draft law will be dealt with by emergency procedure on Wednesday, 24 April 2013. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 13th meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 37 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the Group and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and ministers shall reply to the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The MP who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this agenda item, apologies were made today: Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, Mr. Roman Jakič, Minister of Defence, and Dr. Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, from 15 hours away. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, Mag. Alenka Bratusek. The first question will be asked by Mr Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you very much again. Nice greetings, esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After a good month, since you took over the control of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have already heard this several times, and you have said so much to the local and foreign public that we need in particular time to not need foreign assistance so that we know ourselves in Slovenia, that we are masters on our own land. I also firmly believe this, but obviously these signals do not come to fruition when they come to those who are great decision makers in this area and also have certain expectations that Slovenia will take certain measures. The consequences of these bad signals are also very negative forecasts, including clearly expressed demands, expectations by the European Commission, what we will do next month, and consequently the decline in the country's credit ratings, and in some ways also banks, businesses and, above all, threatening, very expensive long-term debt. I am aware that neither you nor your team are responsible for this situation, nor have you made any major mistakes so far. I am aware that probably the government in which I sat alone and had the opportunity to lead this country for a good year has made many good moves, and at the same time certainly some mistakes have been made, as in the past in the government of Borut Pahor. Today, however, this scepter is in your hands, and we all owe it primarily to us, on the basis of the proposals made by the government, the coalition, to take measures to get us out of this situation. As I said earlier, perhaps a little too quickly, in a state-owned holding company, it is estimated that the laws you are proposing are in some way paralysing this law, which should talk about the management of state property. The area of public finances is certainly crucial in this area. I am also pleased that, on my proposal on 11 April, we have adopted a decision that gives us the opportunity to adopt a fiscal rule into our constitution on 7 May. Above all, when this meeting is scheduled to continue on 7 May, we must also get on the table the measures to be taken in practice, in real life, to implement this fiscal rule, it is said that we will balance public finances. That's why I want to know first: Will you support the fiscal rule, or will you be supported by the largest parliamentary group or party you run? Will you also prepare a package of measures on how to balance public finances, poor banks, governance of state assets and measures to start the economy, which will save us in the long run?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. What we agreed at the last meeting of the presidents and the presidents and the leaders of the parliamentary groups will certainly be done by the Government. We have prepared, in fact, the last meeting this afternoon — calculations of what the fiscal rule means in 2015. I hope that if you insist on introducing this fiscal rule in 2015, you will make it clear to people that you will support such and such a reduction in pensions, such and such a reduction in salaries, both of them, and we are talking about specific figures, the reduction of social rights. In comparison, if this government continued, as it now sees, the work of the past government would amount to a billion eight hundred in this year's budget deficit. Nothing has been done in the field of wage coordination until 20 March. For each missed day, more action will be needed, increasing what will have to be done. Under the fiscal rule you are advocating, this year's budget deficit could be 561 million. A billion is a breakup. A billion can be reduced by reducing public spending by 30%, or by 30%, reducing wages or reducing the size of the public sector or halving the reduction of all transfers by individuals, from the unemployed to the labour market and everything in between. Personally, I do not want to live in a country where only the rich will be able to educate their children, where only the rich will be able to pay for their health. And where we will leave the people of the edge of society, if I may call them, to our own fates. And yes, I am firmly convinced that it can, but not in such a radical way as to force us and force the citizens. Such radical cuts as I have just said would radically change the social system in our country. I don't think anyone in this National Assembly has this mandate right now. Once again, we will prepare calculations and jointly decide what Slovenia is capable of doing. No one makes us think this has to be 2015. Rinse our heads through the wall. Fine, if you insist, but I will insist that we tell people what this means for our country and our people. For 20 years they have created a state of their own, and a few years earlier they have also created our country for this country, and now we will destroy everything they have fought for so many years and so many years ago. But worst of all — that is not necessary. As for interest or return, I think they were just below 8% last August, Mr Bogovic. And I haven't heard from any of them once before to warn the government or the minister of finance that we're just about to fail. It is true that the country is on its knees, but in such a way that we take everything from people, we will not save the country. So please, let's go gradually, go to consolidation, the measures will be presented. I do not know if on 7 May at this meeting, but certainly before sending them to Brussels, they will be presented absolutely to both the social partners and Members. Although the fiscal rule you are proposing will not be respected, consolidation will continue and measures will be drastic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u14	Dear President, sometimes I feel like we haven't changed positions yet when I was sitting alone in those types. I didn't want to embalm or scare the Slovenes or the Slovenes. However, I think that Slovenians and Slovenians are entitled to have a clear flow of pure wine from policy types. We know what we are dealing with, and together, the political summit, the social partners, we agree on how to get out of this situation. I'm aware of the threats you've been predicting that drastic cuts are likely to be necessary, which is what someone else is telling us, or we'll find out for ourselves. I have a graph in front of me that's very clear. And we all know that debt in this country grew from 8 billion to 16 billion between the end of 2008 and the end of 2011. Again, I do not want to talk about the culprits that today we have almost EUR 20 billion in debt, that every Slovenian owes already EUR 10,000 - whether it is a baby, or a pensioner, or those who are working. That is why I think it is right that we are also talking about this when we adopt a fiscal rule. The law that we proposed and presented to you on Friday allows us to agree on the fiscal years 2016, 2017, 2018 and requires serious and responsible work in June 2014. I don't think we can blind ourselves, we need to come up with this data in front of people and start managing our country responsibly. We want to be part of this. The sooner we tell ourselves the truth, the easier it will be for the Slovenes and the Slovenes. Today we had the opportunity to host our Olympics [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Leads us forward and good team spirit. [[...]] We want to participate in this, and our contribution by presenting this law was not intended to frame the coalition, but simply to help in this. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you. Would the President of the Government like to respond to a request to complete the response? The word is from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u16	None of us is holding our eyes to the facts, Mr Bogovic, that we are currently at a billion 800 budget deficits. A billion 800. 800 million holes are in the adopted budget on the basis of the measures taken and implemented by the previous government. We also have to pour ourselves some pure wine here. Therefore, as promised, we will present all the calculations in detail. But I'm just asking, let's be realistic, the burden of the crisis needs to be shared fairly, and I hope that we all have the same goal, this is to preserve the social state. It is also late last year, when we heard from the Prime Minister that the debt is over, that it cannot just end this year and it will not stop this year. The debt will also increase as a result of bank recovery, and it is crucial that we know how and when we will begin to reduce this debt. So, by no means am I, nor government, nor coalition partners are talking about the fact that the consolidation of public finances is over, but please let us all take a reasonable look at what is reasonable for this country and these people together. What I've listed before, I don't think it's reasonable, but the worst part is, it's not going to solve the situation in the country. It is necessary to find a combination of measures on the expenditure side, on the revenue side and at the same time to provide some additional resources for the start-up of the economy. And what we've been doing since we got to the government. And when the package is fully ready, we will fully present it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you for complementing the answer. I see that Mr Bogovic wants to make a request for a debate at the next meeting of the assembly on the response of the President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u18	That's right, President, as you said. On the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we decide to hold a debate in the National Assembly at the next meeting. I think that this is a key topic where Slovenian policy needs to be united, find and take enough time to define itself and that we will finally agree on something. I do not want to be argumentative about these issues, but when it comes to debt itself, as you said, it is necessary to take a rational approach to this path, it is necessary to preserve the social state, I agree with myself, and we must be very careful not to shift the burden of this crisis, which has been caused mainly by some other centres, only to those most vulnerable groups. But certainly the seriousness and depth of the problem is so great that, on the other hand, the sovereignty of our country, or at least the decision-making of these measures, may be very questionable. We know cases in countries where others have come to make decisions on behalf of the country and I am extremely afraid that, despite what I have already said, I know that you have only a good month of time, that there cannot be all solutions, but if we do not talk about this as soon as possible, and we also address these difficult questions in society, that we will only push ahead with measures from the National Reform Programme, which we know we need to prepare, which we must have at the end of May already confirmed in Brussels, otherwise I fear that those who are now in office, or those who are in opposition, what we will no longer be talking about. I don't agree like I said I would. I believe that Slovenians and Slovenians are able to talk about this. It will not be enough just to talk in Parliament. But it is certainly necessary to talk about this first in this temple of democracy. I therefore propose that we do this in a joint debate at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you for your request and we are moving on to the next question. Mag. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia, will ask the President of the Government a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u20	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Members of the New Slovenia Group and all of our colleagues from the party in the last period, and even before, we have been going around a lot between people and even entrepreneurs constantly. And we always hear the same story. It's that our banking system doesn't work and that entrepreneurs don't have the kind of support they want. This, of course, makes us all lose, and at the end of the day we do not have any new jobs. I think that the resolution of the banking system must be the first priority of any government – ours, yours, who will come after you and any other. Many point out that the so-called concept of a bad bank is one of the good solutions for starting the resolution of the banking system. I would only read you a few last statements, Dr. France Arhar said that we need a bad bank as soon as possible, you have heard that, even the International Monetary Fund said that Slovenia must start with a bad bank immediately. Among other things, the OECD says that it welcomes the establishment of a bad bank, even the credit house Fitch has said something about it, Commissioner Janez Potočnik says that a bad bank is one of the possible ways to solve the banking system, even your finance minister Uroš Cufer said that a bad bank is a very efficient and flexible tool that represents a good starting point for helping the economy. That's why I'm asking the distinguished Prime Minister: When can we expect a bad bank to finally operate operationally and begin to rehabilitate our banking system, which can finally service our economy better after this recovery? I ask you because different dimensions of time have appeared in public. Your finance minister said that first transfers to a bad bank can be expected by mid-summer, some economists say it will take 18 months to wait. And I'd like to ask you for your comment. And the last thing, and that's, you know, the bad bank was covered with a lot of ink on your part when you were sitting in the opposition. That's why I'm also asking you: Does your government intend to substantially change the legal basis for a bad bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you for asking. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you. With regard to very operational matters, I think Mr Shircelj, who is the non-executive director of this bank, would be able to explain things more precisely to you than I will. But I'll do my best. I hope this is the last government to be the first priority of bank recovery. It was a former and present, absolute first priority, but I hope that this is the last government and that we will finally be able to bring this thing to where it needs to be. Look, the law was passed on October 23rd. Due to the request for a referendum, 27. 12. The regulation, a sub-legislative act, was adopted on 13 March. I don't know why it wasn't ready from October to December and the bank could start operationally preparing for everything on 1 January. Our goal is absolutely, as the Minister has said, and as I have said myself, the month of June that month when the first thing is solved through a bad bank. Because we use this term, people imagine that this is a bank that is not at all. Let's say the month of June is our goal. Once again, a regulation was adopted on 13 March and the company was registered on 19 March. Why not before, I believe you'll explain it to me better than I do to you. The law provides for a series of measures and they will also be used. If you remember, Mr Tonin, it was both mine and the criticism of colleagues that we do not even know ourselves, let alone people, to show how much taxpayers this rehabilitation will cost. Unfortunately, there were no such calculations at the Ministry of Finance, but they should have been when the law was adopted. The Minister of Finance and I myself have been very operationally involved in this work. We have been working on this from the very beginning, and we are aware that this priority is number one. But everything that was missing from October to December simply cannot be replaced within four weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you. The request to complete the answer will be submitted by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u24	Dear Prime Minister, perhaps I would like to remind you or help you to answer the question of why the establishment and realization of a bad bank is taking so long or so long – also because of you and your help. Remember, you were one of the signatories to the request for a referendum on the so-called bad bank. All these things, of course, have delayed the establishment of a bad bank. But I don't want to say this to put you in an awkward position. But I want to ask you, for example, What has changed so much about you that you now support a bad bank, before you were in the opposition, are you not? To explain to the general public, however, why this rejection occurred in the position. You know, when we adopted the legal basis for this bad bank, you said that our only wish and goal was to buy our state property. The bad bank really makes it possible to decommission the tycoons because, you know, in the process of transferring bad claims from banks to bad banks, many of those tycoons who tried to own state property would lose that property. That doesn't seem bad to me. And economist Jože P. Damian said it was a new nationalization. So I'm asking you a supplementary question: Were you afraid of the bad banks because you were afraid that once successful managers would let go in the process of rehabilitating the banking system? Do you adhere to the principle that when you are in opposition, you must always be against it? You know, our colleagues on the right talked a lot, you were against pension reform, and then you had to accept it yourself. And I think there's something similar about you now – you've been against a bad bank and now you're going to have to realize it yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u25	Do you want to give an additional answer? The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u26	Mr Tonin, if you think we still have time to find different solutions, then you are very wrong. That's the first thing. Second thing. The Act on strengthening the stability of banks in order to maintain the stability of the financial system allows for more measures, and the bad bank is only one of them. You hanged yourself all the time, the whole government, that's all. But there's a whole bunch of other measures. And this is what we are now explaining to you that we are operationally preparing. One part will be transferred to the so-called bad bank, but there are other solutions to this by way of guarantees and so on. It's not just that bad bank. And even during the period from 23 October to 27 December, when the law stood – and some lawyers still think it can be unconstitutional in a certain part, so it will have to be amended, especially in the light of the greater role of the Bank of Slovenia, which I do not know why the previous government was afraid of, at that time could be prepared all the sub-laws and on 28 December published and the bad bank or company could start operating as of 1 January. March 19 is the date on which this company was registered. Once again, the law allows for more action and will mainly be used by all those who are allowed by law, and this is not just a transfer of bad claims to this bad bank. As far as you promise people that this transmission will be exposed, I don't know what. Okay, look, once again, let the bank's CEO sit among you, he has a lot of authority to start working on this, but I hope that you've all read the law and that we know that what you're saying is for the public, because of nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thanks for the answer. The request for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government will be submitted by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u28	Dear Prime Minister of the Government! If I were a politician, I would now ask for a long and wide debate on how urgently a bad bank is needed, but because I am not a politician, I will not ask for it because I know that this debate will bring nothing and I just want you to make a bad bank happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you. Please, procedurally. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I was mentioned twice, it would probably make sense to say the same thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u31	Mr. Shircel, let me warn you in spite of everything. Your procedural proposal could refer to the progress of the questions sent, but I cannot possibly give you the floor to answer as the non-executive director of the company for bank claims management. I'm in charge of the National Assembly, so I'm asking you to understand. Thank you. The next question will be asked by the President of the Government, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Politics are often set a pattern — good and bad. Article 14 of the Constitution states that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other religious beliefs, material status, birth, education, social status, disability or any other personal situation. Last summer it came on the day that the master's job was to be Ambassador of Positive Slovenia Boruta Ambrožić plagiarism. Although only suspicion was expressed, you also responded to this in Positive Slovenia and at the Council meeting on July 31st last year, the Secretary-General of your party Vasja Butina announced to the public the decision of the Council of Positive Slovenia to invite Ambassador Ambrožič to resign from his post. If the Member does not do so, the Council will propose to the Executive Committee that Ambassador Ambrožič be expelled from the Party. The decision was adopted unanimously, and one was abstention. He added that it was not a significant percentage of what was prescribed, but rather the fact that the whole paragraphs were prescribed, the whole text and more. This is not in line with the values of the party Positive Slovenia, its statute and programme. Since the Member has not resigned, the Executive Committee unanimously excluded him from the party last September. The sum of plagiarism appeared in February this year also in your master's. This has been widely reported by the media, but in your case the suspicion of plagiarism has been quite different in the case of Positive Slovenia. No withdrawal invitation was accepted or you were excluded from the party. The influential official of Positive Slovenia, head of your parliamentary group Jani Möderndorfer, said: "The allegations of plagiarism are minor." At the time of the discovery of the suspected plagiarism, you made two advances, on 27 February you were elected as a terminator, and on 20 March you became Prime Minister of the Government. Both the members of your party and the other three parties have given you their support, a suspiciously principled coalition. Two identical cases, two completely different decisions. One can go straight to the top of the political pyramid; the other can be pushed completely to the edge. In what way is your case different from Ambrožič’s, that you have violated the principle of equal treatment and that you have made two different decisions in your client? On the basis of these and such decisions, how will you advocate consistent respect for the constitutional principle of equality before the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you for asking. Before I give my word to the Prime Minister, I would like to give a warning. Mr Jože Tanko was warned that the content of his delegation's question, as transmitted to the President of the Government, was not clear, so we warned him that he was trying to clarify the content in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but he insisted on such content. I ask the President of the Government whether he wants to answer this question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I am aware that we are all the same before the Constitution and laws. However, it would be nice if you, Mr Tanko, were aware of this when, in the mandate of the previous government, you were putting a great deal of pressure on the buttons and confirming the laws that are now proven to be unconstitutional. That's the first thing. Second thing, I hope that we and you let us handle things ourselves in our client. And if we're all the same before marriage, I would expect that today, when you mention me in connection with a master's assignment, a colleague who sits one of you, because I think that's where the exact same procedure is going. And two other colleagues who sat in your benches and were convicted of what was going on. The four sides you're telling me are supposed to be copied from the material I was involved in. And that's the essential difference. I didn't take anything from anyone, but as I've told you many times, no one but the university is going to judge my master's degree. Not you, not your young man and not your client, Your Honourable Member. And yes, I hope they apply to all the same criteria and all the same laws. Let's go look at another case. Minister Maher for black construction is no longer a minister. Director Elesa with a slightly larger black construction, with a villa built on black, still sits in the principal's seat. The Supervisory Board, which was appointed there by your government, is not acting. But I'm not going to tell you who the president of this board or the president is now that there's not going to be too much hot blood. Yeah, everyone should be subject to the same laws. And I've told you many times before when the faculty will complete the procedure and if my master's name is taken from me, I will resign. But I would ask you, Mr Tanko, if you gather so much courage that if the solution is different, you will apologize publicly to me for all the statements you are now giving and spreading about me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thanks for the answer. Mr Tanko would like to complete the reply by really drawing your attention to the fact that the President of the Government can answer questions relating to the functioning of the government or individual ministries. But he can't respond to political parties or anything like that. This is what I ask you, Mr Tanko, to take into account when supplementing the question or answer to the question raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. That's the first warning I've heard in 12 years for a government president to answer. Dear colleague, I have asked a specific question. This is true – even yours when you have made decisions in the world about your colleague Ambrožić at a stage of suspicion that his master's work is plagiarism, and your conduct also in the same situation, at a stage of suspicion that your master's work is plagiarism. You've ruled out Mr Ambrožič, you've made two career advancements in this time period. And if we go to this principle of equal treatment, then we can be concerned if, in such a manifestly identical case as the suspicion of plagiarism at the same party and the other Member from the same party, what is happening is that one is placed entirely on the edge of the political space and the other is advancing to the top of the pyramid. I'm asking: Can such an authority, which interprets this principle of equality so differently, also ensure the principle of equal treatment in the exercise of a public function, in the exercise of political functions, in the implementation of laws? I don't think he can, because at this point, we can figure out that they're talking, they're working. When it comes to one thing, one thing they say and do when it comes to the other, they do something completely different about the same thing. Law enforcement is actually an upgrade to this, and I think you have a very big problem. But when you mention ministers, do what needs to be done. Your Minister Omerzel has also found himself on one side of a problem and you've suspended someone or you've suspended them. [[Incomprehensible]] There's another minister, and you can make that decision on a scale basis. So I would ask you to actually explain these matters to me, as it is appropriate and as it is [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u37	Does the President of the Government want to complete the answer? He doesn't want to. Mr Tanko, I must admit that I expected you to respect my warning and not ask questions about your work in political parties, but about the work of the government. You would like to make a request for a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister. Here you go. You have the floor. Is anyone involved in the hall? You have the floor, Mr. Tanko. It will have to wait because the system is oriented so that it passes a few moments before it can re-apply to the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I have to say, I didn't get an answer to the question. I am interested, in the implementation of this principle of equality, in Article 14 of the Constitution, in whether this specific decision has been made, say, by establishing the appropriateness, inappropriateness, regularity or irregularity of sex, or by taking into account any other personal circumstances. As regards legal functions, the problem is also with the other members of the coalition. For example, Mr Virant said several times for Mr Ambrožić that he was not fit to serve as a Member of Parliament, that he was inappropriate and harmful to the national assembly. In the same case, he voted peacefully in favour of both the approval of the mandate and the office of Prime Minister. Obviously, this coalition is not about some principled approach, some principled regulation and respect for laws, but rather about ad hoc decisions, from case to case. And I fear that such decisions will also be in other areas, such as economic, financial, etc. Public calls will probably be for a form of story and will be made on the faces of whom something will be assigned or not, who is fit for recovery and who is not, who is fit for transfer and who is not. However, there is great fear that the same criteria will not be respected as the constitutional norm. If this is indeed respected, as stated in the Constitution, then in identical situations, in identical circumstances, we should make identical decisions: personal, political and other. However, we note that this is not the case in these cases. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request that we discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you. That's how we ended up with this question. We are moving on to the fourth question raised by Mr Matjaz Han, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In anticipation of the workers' holiday, it is our duty to ask ourselves about their situation and also about the situation of the companies they employ. People expect us to answer the questions that are most important to them. These are issues of economic and social development of the country, access to work and decent payment, education of children, housing, healthcare and could also be listed. We are obliged to show workers and employees that we care about their interests and not only about the interests of capital. It is necessary to establish the conditions that work will be of value again, that workers' rights will be respected and, with all means, combat unemployment in our Slovenia. Nothing will help all the efforts made to consolidate public finances if at the same time a number of companies are failing, which, with a little effort and political will, can be resolved. Unfortunately, our country has too much experience in recent years with the collapse of companies that could be prevented and unfortunately are not. Businesses are failing, entire industries are failing, and we are losing valuable jobs. Just a few cases. Social Democrats have visited all these companies. Radeče Paper, which, despite the payments paid, paid contributions, has placed 250 workers on the road for the unauthorized loan of the New Ljubljana Bank and all banks. Prevent Pur, which had to close the doors because of the long-term sale process. Not to mention the collapse of the entire construction sector and of the timber industry earlier. Then we have a new case – Unior, which employs 2 thousand 135 people, is in liquidity trouble because of the inability to draw on funds, namely those already approved by the SID Bank, and because of the reprogramme, they cannot draw on them. The Bank of Celje shares held by NLB could also be resold, and NLB does not allow them to do so as the largest owner. There is no need to stress that if something does not happen quickly, this company will go bankrupt. Cimos is a story that needs quick action. We need to help with liquidity problems through recapitalisation. Given that I am running out of time, Madam President, I have three more questions to ask in the next part of the question. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you, too. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. I can say that and the government is already fighting for every job because it is significantly cheaper to keep the existing job than to create a new job. This certainly does not mean helping owners, as we have heard many times since the resolution of Radeča Paper and Primorje. There's absolutely no need to fight her. Cimos is just before the deal was signed. After 18 months of negotiation, we will sign an agreement on a solution for Cimos today or tomorrow at the latest. The Minister of Economy has practically been working on exactly what you have just been talking about since his first day. It is true, however, that the very start-up of the economy is crucial to what we have talked about before. This is the rehabilitation of banks, namely the rehabilitation of banks in such a way that they will be able to service the economy again. The transfer of claims to a bad bank will not be the case, so we are talking about a set of measures that, to be fair, the existing law allows. It is not only about exempting bad claims from this bad society, but also a number of others. And the key is to make this happen so that the economy gets fresh money. Previously, you voted to extend the agenda by means of a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. The main changes in this area are the introduction of additional forms of State aid by adding to existing forms already in law, such as credit, subsidy, interest rate subsidy and guarantee, the possibility of rescuing and restructuring companies in difficulty with capital investment. The law removes the limit on the maximum amount of State aid for individual companies in difficulty, which has so far been 10 million, and also removes the limit, it is said that if the Republic of Slovenia owns more than 25%, this company will also be able to help. Of course, this part of business resolution in difficulty must be implemented in accordance with EU rules. And we don't think anything else. But after four weeks, since we've been in the government, we've solved or we're going to solve a case that the two governments were dealing with before, but it wasn't solved. We are proposing an amendment to the law and we are looking for additional measures, together with SID Bank, SDH or now with Sodo and Banka Slovenije, which have already done some study to which companies would make sense. However, you have also heard the Minister of Economy say several times that there is a need to help companies with a chance of survival. At this point in time, good companies need to be helped. Those who will remain the driving force of the economy in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. Matjaž Han will submit a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u44	Complementing the answer, as well as a few other cases that are interesting to me and are in different sectors. Roman termines, another one in a series of stories that have an unfortunate end. Although in bankruptcy, ladies and gentlemen, business continues normal and better. In some ways, hotel facilities are over 80% full, they need new people, they're bankrupt and they have problems. It's stuck in the bank again. Péco. I must also say that he found himself in trouble in the middle of last year or a number of years earlier. The State Commission has chosen the best bidder, the case is now standing, I do not want to say that 380 jobs are and will probably not get the next salary in March. Everything. He employs 180 people if we count 60 other suppliers that are connected to him, which means 10 more jobs. Last year, more than EUR 1 million was brought into the state treasury, and they have been in a difficult situation for some time. They were waiting for a transfer of 2.1 million euros of private capital from Turkey, but this is not the case. They are in the timber sector, which is for this government, for the previous government and for all governments, a strategic and promising economic sector. President of the Government in the first response, you replied to me in the first part, but it is necessary to work for every job and to deal with public finances in the meantime. If we do not maintain every job, each company individually, then the consolidation of public finances will not help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u45	Does the President of the Government want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u46	We will absolutely fight for every job, and perhaps I have forgotten to mention one more thing, and it is also written in our cooperation agreement. The funds from the sale of businesses, the privatisation, we have committed ourselves to bringing this back to the economy. But once again, to the healthy part of the economy that will be towing a horse or the driving force of the country and our economic growth. Pekko was mentioned. But I think it's still right to say one thing here. We are familiar with the Commission's decision, there is one small problem here that the guarantees that the buyer should give are not such that they actually allow guarantees. Now we're talking. If this buyer improves the guarantee, then the government will take the appropriate decision, send it to the National Assembly and in the National Assembly you will eventually decide whether or not to sell it under such conditions. I hope that we all have a common interest in finding such a buyer who will keep this company and that we have guarantees for what the contract says: for each job cancelled, so much and so much guarantee or money. That's all there is to talking about in the last few days. And if so, I think you'll get a proposal from the National Assembly today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you for complementing the answer. I note that we have exhausted the questions that have been addressed to the President of the Government and thank her for the answers given. However, we are moving on to questions of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u48	Nicely greeted! The first question of Members and Members will be raised by Mrs Romana Tomc to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities by Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, all ministers and ministers! A few minutes ago, the President of the Government warned how important it is to preserve the social state and how important it is that the burden of this crisis is fairly distributed. The new social legislation adopted at the time when Dr. Svetlik was Minister and you are Secretary of State and has become applicable 1. 1. In 2012, it has made a very fundamental contribution to the system of social, family and other transfers. Undoubtedly, it has also produced many positive results, but very many negative results as well. And all of these have caused a further deterioration in the situation of some individuals and groups who are most vulnerable and at risk in our society. In its very detailed analysis, the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia also notes this, which also makes some concrete proposals to the government on how to act. Later, two or more laws were adopted that affected the social situation, but there is no way to ignore and cannot ignore the fact that these two laws were introduced. 1. 2012 had a particularly negative impact on the situation of single - parent families, families with pupils and large families, and pensioners who had largely given up the protective allowance. It is true that the financial possibilities of the country are limited, as we understand it, but nevertheless, within the scope of the options given, in particular with what transfers within the budget must be eliminated by those anomalies which are the largest at this time. Last but not least, it was the ministry's promise at the time, and it also promises you when you were still a candidate for Minister in the National Assembly. I therefore ask you very specifically: How many complaints have been lodged regarding new social legislation, how many of these have been resolved positively, and how many others have been resolved? How many times in the last five years has the state exercised the right to pay social transfers in the proceedings when so-called inheritances were in court? When do you intend to amend both laws that affect the social situation? In your opinion, what recommendations from this analysis are most up to date and will you take them into account?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u50	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u51	Dear Mrs Romana Tomc, thank you for the question. True, the new social legislation began to apply with 1. 1. 2012. The results of this legislation, the evaluation brought to the table in March. As you mentioned, especially in the case of protective additives, there has been the greatest gap between what was planned and what actually happened. The fact is that most have given up a protective allowance for fear of marking their property. Those with a protective supplement today are the higher ones, which was one of the basic objectives. This study clearly states that this supplement is higher than €43, and we have placed it significantly higher – at €450. In fact, however, the results show that they are not what we expected, so that, as I have promised and have already said publicly, we will change social legislation. We have already conducted several interviews at the Ministry with social work centres, where the biggest problems are. We will also make changes on the basis of this study, which will be under funding. However, we plan to address these changes at the end of the summer and in the following year these changes will enter into force. This is also in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. As regards the issue of complaints, it may be necessary to say that some less than 700 000 applications were submitted in 2012, 840 000 decisions were issued for approximately 320,000 rights. Of these, 3,839 complaints were filed with the Ministry. Last year, the Ministry did not keep a record of whether or not these complaints were resolved favourably. The fact is that last year the implementation of this legislation also coincided with a reduction in the number of employees in the ministry, otherwise they tried to strengthen some of them, but the realization of the 8 already with the consent of the government of approved transfers was not, in fact, two of them were only transferred with the PSIZ, so that we are facing these problems at the Ministry. The former Minister is, in fact, the problem here is how to ensure. We are now trying to reorganise ourselves internally, and we are also holding discussions with other ministries on the possibility of strengthening the legal service, because this must be decided as soon as possible. As far as the procedures relating to the law of succession are concerned, the state, the real term is the state, does not keep these records. With regard to the law on succession, which will change, it will also be necessary to inter-resort these records and the rules governing these matters. However, it is not about money, because it is not only about the reimbursement of monetary and social assistance or the security allowance, but it can also be recovered in nature, so forest, agricultural area, so this assessment of these funds transferred to the state budget is not easy. We also foresee certain changes in this area. As far as analysis is concerned, it is likely that changes will take place where the biggest shortcomings have also been identified: as regards the security allowance, then the question of what income is available, how credit is taken into account in this decision-making when the housing issue is resolved by credit, how this is taken into account. Another such thing, which is very problematic, is the amount of savings that is then taken into account when measuring individual rights. In short, there will be changes. They will probably not be the only ones in the next year, especially in the direction of greater rationalisation within the system, in the sense that decision-making will also be in a different way and thus less burdened centres for social work, but it must be borne in mind that the system can handle so much burden and change at a certain time, not in a particular way. Since last year, when this social legislation was actually being enforced, I understand why it had to be adopted by the ZUJF, but it did in many ways intervene in these rights, in particular the medium layer by abolishing the 7th, 8th grade of the children's allowance, by interfering with the school meal, by reducing this 6th class. Here were the changes and the results are what they are, and our task of politicians is to find solutions together. So I'm looking forward to it when they're ahead of you to support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u52	Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u53	Yeah. I'd still like a refill. However, before making a request for a supplement, let me say that the children's allowances have decreased by 22% compared to 2011 in 2012 and that the protective allowances have decreased by 64% and more. This drastic reduction is due mainly to the decline in the number of recipients of the protective allowance. 16 thousand 100 of them gave up a protective allowance due to a threat that the country would sit on their property. I think they've been under-informed, too scared, and the consequences are drastic. And in your reply, in fact, you have not stated anything other than that the State does not actually know about what it has done with this threat, nor does it maintain any record, nor does it lead to how many proceedings have been conducted in the courts, nor does it lead to proceedings or information on how much has actually been done in this account, I will say, a positive profit for the country. Perhaps, in fact, the country has spent more in its procedures than it has actually gained back, and people have given up this supplement in a mass way and have remained in great social distress. Ten thousand complaints, you say he's still at the Ministry of Labour. It's huge, I don't know when you're going to make this amount, which is really huge, when you're going to succeed with it, and I hope that as soon as possible, with the help of relocation from other ministries. However, I think we should prepare legislation as soon as possible. They should be adopted before the beginning of the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u54	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. As you mentioned, there were 22% of children's supplements. In addition, it should be said that the reason for the maximum reduction is because the eligibility of the child supplement is up to the age of 18 and, in particular, at the expense of the seventh and eighth classes which were abolished with the ZUJF and with a 10 % reduction in the value in the sixth grade. In particular, the children's allowance is one of the transfers where the ZUJF had certain influences. If we are correct, it is only right that we are right to be right. As for the security supplement and the notes, I agree that in this communication we may not have been good enough all of us together, because there is always a policy that is more threatening than not or that it usually says things by threatening people. So it's probably about the protective supplement and what happened to the question of what happened at the adoption itself and what were the statements. But still, with regard to the security supplement, when I moved to the Ministry this month, of course, we have no record of what was done last year, but someone else can answer. As I have said, changes to the law on succession will be particularly important for us to coordinate records and procedures with the Ministry of Field Affairs, in what way. Now we are just so involved in this process that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of the State is equally asking whether we want to determine whether we want to apply this measure, whether it is mortgaged or not, and the Ministry, in accordance with the provisions of the law after the recipients of money, social assistance, a protective allowance and these family members are in a difficult social situation, cancel this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Do you still have a request for a hearing? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u57	Yeah, sure. I think that the debate in the National Assembly on this social issue would be very useful, so, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the discussion of the Minister's response be held and that any more concrete information be obtained in this way, so that the issue is presented more widely, and that some solutions are also sought.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mrs Romane Tomc to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 24 April 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question. Ms Jasmina Opec will ask the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitchanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. All of you, have a good day! Good business environment and economic growth do not only create the stability of the banking system, flexible labour law, technological innovation, successful economic diplomacy, an important role in an attractive economic environment and growth is also played by an effective justice system, as the market economy is reliant on trust, which means that the conditions for its effective functioning are legal protection and well-functioning institutions that ensure rapid sanctioning breaches of contractual obligations. An effective justice system is therefore one of the key elements for successful economic growth. In the spirit of this awareness, the European Commission presented a review of the situation between the members of the European Union in the field of justice less than a month ago. Let us look at some specific figures and data from the report concerning the state of justice in Slovenia. Slovenia has, among all members of the European Union, the largest number of judges in the courts, measured at 100,000 inhabitants, 71.2 professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants. The European Union average is 45.6. It has the fourth highest budget for justice, 89.9 euros per capita, while the average in the European Union is 41.7 euros. Nevertheless, the European Commission notes in its report that Slovenia belongs to a group of six Member States with problems in the field of justice, in particular as regards the duration of judicial proceedings and the organisation of the judiciary itself. In particular, there are long procedures in the area of civil and economic justice cases, resolution in the event of insolvency, and in the number of undeclared outstanding cases per hundred inhabitants, we are at the very top. If we add public mistrust to the independence of the courts, the report specifically points out that this lack of confidence is high in civil justice, then we can conclude that Slovenia needs urgent measures in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: What measures do you have at the Ministry of Justice to improve the efficiency of the Slovenian judicial system in terms of a better business and investment environment?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers, as many of you as are left! I agree with the Member of Parliament, Mrs Opec, that the issues you have mentioned are one of the key issues facing Slovenia. It is a question that is, in fact, at the same level with the public finance issues that we have heard most of the time both in the past government and in this government. I even think that this is a question that is even before the questions of public finances. If we do not have an effective judicial system and, in this context, in particular, an effective judiciary, then the resolution of public financial issues will not help much. I therefore think that this is one of the central issues facing Slovenia, and it is understandable, even one of the central, in fact, the key issues of this mandate and of the past, in the past government. The report of the European Commission, which you presented briefly, is indeed devastating for Slovenian justice. The results of this report are, if I simplify slightly, what you have said is that the Slovenian judiciary, in particular the judiciary, receives relatively the most money from the Slovenian state budget, that it has the most judges per capita. However, when it comes to the effectiveness of the judiciary, including the wider justice system, I also belong to the State Prosecutor's Office, which should also be more effective, but if I limit myself to the judiciary, because this is the one that represents the backbone of Slovenian justice when it comes to the effectiveness of Slovenian judiciary, but this efficiency is very low. That was my starting point for last year's ministry. In a sense, this report of the European Commission, which was published some month ago, only confirms what I often said publicly last year, warned, in particular in informal discussions and formal discussions with representatives of the Slovenian judiciary, and tried to convince them of the seriousness of the situation in which we are as a country, in particular the seriousness of the situation in which the Slovenian judiciary is located. It is necessary to know, and I am sure that Members of this Parliament know this well, but I do not know to what extent this is known by the Slovenian public, because it is necessary to say that the primary responsibility and primary responsibility for becoming a Slovenian justice system and, in this context, in particular, the judiciary is more effective, in the hands of the judiciary itself, in general the judiciary itself. The Ministry of Justice, which I run, has certain powers here. These are related, as you know, in particular to the legislative framework in which the Slovenian judiciary operates. Given the situation I encountered last year when I took over the mandate, the situation in the judiciary, in the Slovenian judiciary, which is nothing significant today, some minor movements were noticeable, which I will comment on below – that is, given the state in which the Slovenian judiciary was in last year, I felt that it was my responsibility to do two. First to convince and show the Slovenian judiciary, in which hands, as I said earlier, is the primary responsibility and competence to change these matters, to do everything he can, and to do much to rationalise his business, so that he can do everything he can to shorten judicial proceedings. To enable individuals, citizens and citizens and businesses to resolve their rights, to resolve a dispute more quickly than was the case, at least on average, so far. This was the first mission of my mandate – and it still is. Secondly, to propose those urgent legislative changes that would make it easier for the Slovenian judiciary and other parts of the judiciary to achieve this objective. That's what I did. These are amendments to the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, which I have prepared in the past term and which I will send to the Government in a short time, in a week, two, immediately after the first May holidays, and then to Parliament. I suggest that I proceed with your supplementary question, and I also point out that Mrs Sonja Ramšak has a similar question and then I will complete my answers to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u63	I am pleased, Mr Minister, that we agree that an effective judiciary is very important for the economic growth of our country. I also agree with you that part of the responsibility lies with the judiciary alone, but there is also something in our hands. That's why I keep asking you: Can you please list five concrete proposals that you will prepare in the field of justice or which you have already prepared to improve the business environment in Slovenia, and at what time? Please, if you can get them to the National Assembly as thoroughly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you. If I continue to make legislative amendments. But before I go any further, there's something else I'd like to say. Most of the laws that are currently in force in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular those relating to business, on the administration of the courts, I think that this part of the legislation is crucial in reducing the time spent on trial. Most of this legislative framework already in force is such that if the courts, even if the Presidents of the courts were to implement it, in practice, they would be able to significantly reduce the time it takes in the past for a trial to be concluded. So simplified, we would make an important contribution to making the judiciary and the wider judiciary more effective. I reiterate that simply amending laws or adopting some new laws, which then do not enter into force in practice, will not help us much. While I will present some concrete legislative changes that I have already made in the past mandate and will also insist on them in this mandate, as I have already mentioned. I would like to point out, however, that the legislative framework already in force is such that it actually contains everything that the judiciary needs in order to be more effective. The problem is that in one large part of this part of the legislation, I am talking about that part of the legislation governing the administration, the management, the business in the courts, the rules governing what happens in a court of law once a person has brought an action, from that point on and until the final conclusion of this procedure in the form of a judicial judgment. There's a lot of maneuvering space in this room for shortening, for rationalization. And once again, the judiciary, the Presidents of the courts, who have the main powers here, already have the powers and powers they need to shorten these matters. With amendments that I think are necessary, they go even further, more precisely, the definitions of these powers that the Presidents of the courts have, more precisely, the definitions of the rules on how court operations should be carried out, how to deal with concrete cases, in order to make this procedure as short as possible. I will present concrete examples of these amendments. The first such amendment or set of amendments refers to an even greater increase in the powers of the Presidents of the Courts than they already have under the applicable legislation. I think that the Presidents of the courts must act as leaders, as they are the managers of the courts. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] organisations like any other organisation. [[...]] I propose to continue to answer Mrs Ramšak's question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. You still have a request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. For 20 years in this country, we have faced similar or similar problems in justice and have been looking for solutions in this area for 20 years. For 20 years now, I have been following the downfall of business for companies in my Prekmurje, and for 20 years I have been very close to seeing what such a collapse of companies means for no fault of the family of workers. The slowness of the resolution of economic disputes actively contributes to the excessive elimination of businesses, the loss of jobs, higher social expenditure and the walking of economic power. In view of the importance of the issue of an effective judiciary, I propose that the General Discussion be held by the National Assembly in accordance with Article 246(2).
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Madam Member, will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 24 April 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment the question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u69	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment myself. However, I would like to ask Dejan Židan, who is absent today, to give an oral answer to my question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has not been effective in the decision-making procedures for granting concessions and water licences, which has prevented revenue from being paid into the state and municipal budgets at least EUR 25 million over the last six years. I summarise this information after the audit of the Court of Auditors at that Ministry. By doing so, the State places economic operators in a totally unequal position. Some economic operators pay contributions for water use, while others do not. And second. The European Commission notes that in this case State aid is unlawful. But not only does the European Commission note, but it has already warned us that we are actually just ahead of a criminal action if we do not address this problematic area. My question is: How will the Minister approach the resolution and regulation of this problem in Slovenia and avoid the financial penalties of the European Commission in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Considering he's the Minister of Magic. Dejan Židan is absent, you will receive an oral reply to the next meeting of the National Assembly in response to the questions raised by the Members. We move on to the next question. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, and the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant. Let me say that Dr. Uroš Cuffer is away, so we can now do part of the answer or maybe the whole answer. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministers, Minister of the Interior and Public Administration Dr Gregor Virant! Also due to the 74 votes of the ratified fiscal pact in the National Assembly, which, by the way, today the Prime Minister has ignored in response to the first question of the Member State, the Public Finance Balance Act has reached 39 laws and, with some temporary and permanent measures, has infringed on certain rights. One of the fundamental principles of this law is also the equitable and fair distribution of the burden of the economic and financial crisis among the various social groups financed by budgetary resources, including larger groups of public servants and pensioners. Thus, Article 143 of the ZUJF also covered the pensions of those pensioners whose material rights do not result from paid contributions, and only those pensions exceeding EUR 622 were covered. In this way, last year's budget savings were only from this account of a good €18 million. In doing so, I should like to point out that, if we want to continue to save on them, a large proportion of public servants are already receiving low wages, which are already approaching the amount set out in the Minimum Wages Act. For example, some employees in administrative units, courts, nurses, police officers, soldiers, and so on. Further interventions in their salaries and other benefits will require special caution. Both ministers, Dr. Chufer and Dr. Gregor Virant, ask: What is your time and content plan for the adoption of austerity measures, both in the area of intervention in the salaries of public servants and in the area of pensions, if any, such measures are planned in the latter area? Mr. Secretary, I thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr. Horvat. ZUJF, the Public Finance Balance Act, undoubtedly had an important impact on the consolidation of public finances in Slovenia, as the budget deficit fell to 3.7% in 2012 and, following the Court of Auditors' audit, it will prove to be slightly higher. However, some mistakes have also been made with the ZUJF in those areas where what you have warned about has happened, honourable Member, where there has been an overly, too deep, without feeling in individual social segments. I am thinking, of course, of the 143rd Article of the ZUJF, in which I have for a long time warned myself that it is very likely to be unconstitutional and, in the end, it has also proved to be unconstitutional. Remember that in the previous coalition we had quite a few discussions on this subject and that we have always insisted in the Civil Gazette that Article 143 needs to be corrected that this is an offence for the Constitutional Court to annul it in any way. We were not listened to, we were not listened to, especially by the largest coalition party, and in the end it turned out to be really unconstitutional. Now I am going to the part of the response that is in the Ministry of the Interior and Public Administration's domain – wage measures in the public sector. Look, we got a big problem here. The 2013 budget provided for a total of 288 million lower wages than was realized in 2012. I have to make amends, I am talking about the sum of all four public treasury budgets, health, municipal and something small in the PPIZ for employees. So 288 million less than in 2012. Of these 288 million is already falling by $130 million from the ZUJF, but we still have about 158 million left to replace or reduce public sector rights or employment if we are to implement the 2013 budget. If these measures were to take place at the time the budget was adopted or before the budget was adopted, if the government then agreed with the public sector unions, we would not have a problem today, and even the interventions now necessary would be smaller, since we are now in April. And if we want to save this 160 million in half a year, the measures will have to be significantly sharper than if the Janša government agreed on September or autumn 2012, since they would then apply throughout the year, they could be significantly less radical, significantly less sharp. We are in negotiations with the public sector unions. The government has proposed its approach to reducing wages in the public sector. This is based in particular on not going into dismissal for business reasons, so that we guarantee stable, safe employment for employees in the public sector, because we do not want to create additional problems, an additional number of unemployed, additional social pressures, as well as costs, because any failure for business reasons also entails costs – relief and then the obligations of the Employment Service to the unemployed person. From here on, we have offered trade unions a series of measures, including the main reduction of the labour-time allowance, and then the reduction of some other allowances and the suspension of payment of the so-called frozen payment of advances for another year. From trade unions today or by Thursday at the latest, we expect an official response, once we have only the answers of some unions, not a common response. Once we get this answer, we will immediately present the government's counter-proposal or approximation proposal, and eventually we have to bring in this 160 million, because otherwise this year's budget will simply not be feasible or in December for wages will be running out, and wages, we all know, we have to pay, or we will have to increase the deficit and we will have to take additional responsibility for wages. The problem is big, it is serious, I am counting on the union side to understand that something needs to be done and the public sector needs to adapt to the economic situation that is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u74	Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for giving Minister Virant a few more minutes. I absolutely agree with your conclusion. The change of government has certainly contributed to this, in the negative sense that the actual cycle has stopped for a few months, for three and a half months. We are almost finished for the first third of the year and the budget is tied to the whole calendar year. You answered me about the timeline I was asking you about when you were expecting answers from the unions. And I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, the answer to the question: Do you think you will succeed, of course I wish you much success in negotiating with trade unions, which are likely to be extremely difficult? Do you think you will succeed in the first half of this financial year in coming before Members with some legal solutions? Thank you very much for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u76	Here you are, Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In any case, we will have to come before you so that these measures can enter into force no later than 1 July. More. One of the measures is directed so that it should be implemented before 1 June, because then, according to the applicable ZUJF, the advances that have been frozen should be paid. If we want to hunt these hands, we need to have the matter negotiated by May 10th and the law in the National Assembly around May 15th. This will, of course, be extremely difficult. And I would like to comment on that point you made in the first sentence that this is also related to stopping the wheel when the government changes. Not in that case. In this case, the main problem is that this National Assembly has adopted an unfunded budget, unlike the 2012 balance sheet. Since we first adopted the ZUJF, the budget then adapted to the rights as set out by the ZUJF. However, the budget without coverage was adopted for 2013. It is said that the wages cut by 6.4% compared to the 2012 realisation, without doing anything to help the public sector leaders to lower wage costs. You know, one primary school principal, for example, cannot reduce the wages by 10% on his own, because he is bound to standards, standards, he has to execute the program and he has to pay the wages at the level set out in the collective agreement. There was a little ostracism in the head in the sand. If we want to lower wages, we must say whether we will reduce the number of employees, forgive or reduce rights. And we've decided on this second option, and we're going to look for options that would be as painful as possible. There are also interventions that do not hurt as much as an intervention in supplements. However, I will not now disclose the following negotiating steps, but we have some chance of reaching out to things that actually employees, public servants and officials do not see in their account every 5th of the month. Thank you for your good wishes. It is really difficult, it is not easy, because the public sector has, of course, become tired of the pressure. However, I also see an understanding on the part of trade unions that the economic situation is such that the public sector needs to adapt here. And that's the fairest thing. When the economy is failing, the public sector must also adapt. Once the economy is doing well again, once we have economic growth, then we will be able to talk in the public sector about increasing wages, and unfortunately this is not possible now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question of the House of Representatives, mag. Majda Potter will ask the Minister of Culture Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. "Students don't collapse. We're pretty much building up.", it was written in the Journal when the Journal reported on what students and professors were doing in the week of the Free University. And I also base my question on one of the events of the Free University, which is to view the AGRFT premises, when the AGRFT leadership, professors and professors, co-workers, students and students took us from the basement to the attic to illustrate to us the situation in which the greatest artists of stage art have been formed since the establishment of 1945. In the premises of Nazorje, the former French Conviction has been operated by the Academy since 1949. As early as 1955, the Rector of France Koblar had pointed to an unsustainable situation. In 1969, Rector Ivan Jerman considered the issue of school space to be a critical point. He considered that the areas in which AGRRFT operates are far from the worst in the entire former Yugoslav space. This was also recorded in Del when AGRFT became part of the University of Ljubljana. And whenever events of a more resonant reaction occurred, students and professors were involved. So in 1986, when they boycotted the lectures and the premises expanded by 31 more residential units on the second and third floors, but the eviction lasted 26 years. Then there was a triad in 2004, an academy on the road that managed to force a plot on the Roška road. And now we are also at a time when they are firmly opposed to the situations in which they work. I will rely only on AGRFT, not on all three art academyes, and you, Mr. Secretary, I ask: How is the Ministry of Culture involved in the provision of suitable premises for art academyes? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Dr. Grills, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u81	Dear Members and Members, welcome! The problem described by the honourable Member is very serious, is lax and chronic. Unfortunately, I must immediately say that on short notice the spatial problem of the three academyes is not a solution. This is certainly one of the key problems and one of the key projects concerning the development of culture in the future. As such, he will also gain a place in the national programme for culture, such as the one exposed to the problem that generates new staff, which generates new artists and many other artistic professions. But like the NUK, in this case, the key address to address these issues is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with which we are very well involved, and with my colleague Pikal, this week it is also very serious to address this issue, in particular in terms of how the new financial perspective can adequately place both projects. I'm talking about NUK and three art academyes. The Ministry of Culture, for its part, shall assist at least in the work relating to infrastructure. You know that it operates through public infrastructure in the field of culture, which is particularly in the management of public institutions, partly some NGOs. In this case, specifically for AGRRFT we provide 706 square metres of space in Kvedrov, after a symbolic rent of 1 euro per square meter, so that at least one part of these programs can be performed there and once, until some radical new purpose of the Quadre building occurs, so will the rest. And of course we are constantly in contact with the leadership of both AGRFT and other art institutes. However, we must be aware that there is still a third partner here, the University of Ljubljana, which is trusted, the very implementation of the investment, you know that for several years there has been a dispute around the agreement for a few 10 square metres, which actually prevents the start of this investment. As long as it is in our power, we will strive to keep the work of the academy going. But we know very precisely and you described it correctly, this situation is truly chronic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u82	Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. I agree with you that you are not alone, but with a special purpose, I have addressed this question to you. And I agree that in addition to the University, I believe that the entire university, an important interlocutor in addition to the State, also the Municipality of Ljubljana, because in the history of solving spatial problems, there were also ideas about moving art academyes to other places in Slovenia, so to speak. This is exactly what you were talking about, about the premises in Quadra, which is the core part of the question, which is why I also turned to you, because this is part of a temporary solution. AGRFT says they have been insisting for 66 years in a temporary solution, so the reasonable question is whether it is advisable to resort to temporary solutions. But it is precisely the experience of the Academy of Music, which acquired at such a temporary solution some concert hall where the activity can take place, that this temporary solution in Quedre, with no symbolic rent for one euro, might also be a temporary solution for one year, because the premises could be used free of charge, but a longer perspective was indicated. Because you know just as well as I do, the story is that after one year their contract was terminated and they had to do their best to use rental rooms. But the problem is that seven other locations, the one on Nazir and Quedrov, break what the university or academy has to be – some single organism. So once again, I ask: Is there any other possibility of larger spaces, even temporary ones? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u84	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The problems of all three academyes are very specific. Each has its own problems, each has its own spatial requirements. Currently, AGRRFT and I are not specifically discussing any other possible location. Once again, Kvedrov remains a very real location. I think it is essential that we, as a government, approach to a new investment as soon as possible, which will permanently address the issue of the three art institutes. I think that there is the will to do so also with an appropriate financial mechanism, if you want, and that here, too, all the other things that have accumulated over the years, including the question of the destination of the area with the Municipality of Ljubljana, are resolved to the end. Here we have just a little bit of a twist about one of the plots and I think if I have the right information from the rector that this is also being dealt with in an accelerated way over the last period. But if we have to find another interim solution, we'll come across. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the mag. Marko Pogačnik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u87	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Greetings to the Council of Ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! In view of the absence of Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac, I propose that he answer the question orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs! In the last period we have witnessed a series of discussions on the transformation of the diplomatic and consular network of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2012, as foreign minister, you proposed the closure of four embassies and two consulates of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I was surprised by the information last week or by the government’s conclusion that the government was opening a consulate in the Caribbean state of Trinidad and Tobago. I am particularly interested in the reasons why the Government has decided to open a consulate in the Caribbean state of Trinidad and Tobago. What is expected of this, and what will be the advantages and added value of the Republic of Slovenia? What will be the cost of opening a consulate in the Caribbean state of Trinidad and Tobago, and who will be the consul in the Caribbean state of Trinidad and Tobago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Marco Pogačnik. In accordance with your request, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer your question orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the next question put by Mrs Sonja Ramšak to the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plicaniu.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My work has been somewhat facilitated, given that my colleague Opecova has already asked the minister a similar question, but let me ask you a question on my own somehow. I think we have already discussed a similar matter in the presentation itself when you presented yourself to us Members and Members of Parliament as the new Minister of Justice or the previous one. We have written very nicely in the Constitution that the Republic of Slovenia is also a legal and social state, but citizens and citizens, as well as economic operators, are increasingly finding that this is not the case. When we talk about the effectiveness of the judiciary, what we find fast is that all those who appear before individual courts or in criminal and other proceedings find that these procedures are in fact taking place in unreasonablely long periods, that trust in the institutions of the rule of law has, therefore, never been launched in this way, and I think that legislation, the reform of the judicial system, should be adopted as soon as possible. As I have already said, the judiciary is very ineffective, and you have already pointed out in your reply to my colleague Opec some of the problems related mainly to the organisation of the courts themselves. I must say that I strongly agree with you here that, as in other parts of the public administration, we often face inefficiencies where we do not have good management. However, this is not the fault of citizens and citizens, and I believe that everyone deserves a fair, fair and impartial trial, which should also be conducted within reasonable time. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, When can Members and Members expect a public presentation of the new reform of the judiciary, with specific questions that you have pointed out to answer in the context of my question? With regard to the website, we can see that several of these proposals are in both the professional debate and the interdepartmental coordination and some are already government in the procedure and also in the procedure in the National Assembly. I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you. I'd just keep going here where you ended up. From the point of view of citizens and citizens, if we look at their perspective, as well as at ours, because we are citizens and citizens ourselves, it is really irrelevant to discuss who is responsible for what. We all want, everyone wants Slovenia to become a state of law as soon as possible in the right sense of that word and in this context, that the judiciary is really effective, that means that justice is quickly achieved. Just quick justice is the right thing to do. I fully understand that this is the only legitimate view of things, but even though we are wondering what we can do, what we as a government can do, what Members and Members of Parliament can do here in Parliament, it is still important to have in mind that when we talk about the judiciary, we are talking about the independent branch of state authority. Just as the legislative branch is independent, such as the government, the administration is independent, so the judiciary is an independent branch of government. And once again, the executive and legislative branches here have limited possibilities of influencing what is the fundamental objective and the fundamental desire of all of us, that is, that the judiciary will become as effective as possible, more effective as possible, as it is to restore the confidence of citizens and citizens in the functioning of the rule of law, the functioning of the judiciary, which is a fundamental institution when it comes to these issues. So what we can do, do, and do. Once again, and also from this place, I call on the judiciary to be aware of its great responsibilities in this area as soon as possible in order to take the necessary steps towards greater efficiency of its own action. If I continue where I finished earlier, what are those legislative changes that are necessary to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary. Let me say again, I see for myself the main space, the main room of manoeuvre or the main field of changes that are needed or where changes still need to be made, the area of governance, the administration of the courts. I think that's what was somehow the most neglected in the past. As I have said before, although we have legislation that allows for effective management, effective judicial management, and yet these legislative changes, which you have rightly said are already in the process, some of them are already before the adoption of the Government, are such as to strengthen, regulate more transparently the administration of the courts, management, management and other matters related to the organisation. This is where the most maneuverable space is, here is the most reserves associated with rationalisation and thus with the reduction of the trial procedures. And that's where the changes are going. Let me continue to list the five cases Mrs Opec wanted. The first set of amendments increases the powers of the Presidents of the Courts and makes them more than they have ever been, leaders, bosses, managers. Let me say that they resist in court, the presidents experience themselves more than the first of the same. Nevertheless, we all know that if we are dealing with an organization, and the judiciary, or individual courts, are an organization, they must be effectively guided. That is the case everywhere in the world, and I don't think there can be a discussion. Of course, I have never argued, and I do not now claim that the judiciary must be guided in the same way as the administrative unit as the ministry or as an undertaking. I have never said that, but the judiciary is a specific organisation and this needs to be adapted to manage and manage. Another issue that is very important and concerns those in which hands is the trial, in which hands is it, whether they will judge faster than before — it is the judges themselves. Here I think it is necessary, and in this direction there are going to be changes, to establish a pyramid system when we have at the top of a judge who then has enough support staff to help him make decisions. So the judges themselves can then concentrate only on the things that are really necessary for them to do. The third, very important segment, is linked to the control of the executive branch over the judicial branch in this respect, which is crucial – in terms of efficiency, in terms of speed, in terms of the time dimension. I think that the judiciary needs someone, someone from the executive branch, who will monitor their work on a permanent basis, to really rationalise their business quickly enough with the aim of reducing the trial procedures. Then I will proceed in response to your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u92	Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I must say that I myself have not thought about overseeing the work of judges in specific matters, but more about what you have said in the end that it is more about the effectiveness of the judicial system. I would like to ask you a further question: How do you feel about a permanent judicial term? We have seen from the reports of the European Union, and even when we ourselves have considered the report on the functioning of the judiciary, we can say that the conditions for the work of the courts are very good. We have a large number of judges in whom I have no doubt, but I am interested in your view of a permanent term of office. What do you think could possibly increase the effectiveness of the judiciary by introducing a limited mandate? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you. Well, if I keep going. The next set of changes is related to this, i.e. the issue of the education of judges. Although I do think that the change in the constitution towards the test term is not real, that was my opinion last year. That's why I'm going to propose something else. I will propose a special judicial school in which candidates for judges should be educated and given knowledge of anything other than the law, namely, someone who is to be the holder of a separate branch of state, the judiciary, must also have other skills, other knowledge that is not only legal knowledge. I think that too little attention has been given in the past, and I think that the problem is partly related to the schooling of the universities themselves, which educate future judges, that is, law schools. I teach on one of those myself, and I know that very well. But to make this manna of other skills, of other knowledge that someone needs to become a true person, because a judge has to be a person because he's a representative, every judge is a functionary, every judge is a holder of the judicial branch of power. In this direction, amendments are being made to provide judges in every possible way and then this school's conclusion in the direction of change, for a single legal examination in such a way as to have a special examination for those who wish to become judges, sharper and stricter. I also think that education, permanent training of judges, including other participants in justice, prosecutors, notaries, lawyers and so on, is extremely important. I think that too little attention has been given in the past, so I intend to strengthen this part, and here is the important responsibility of the ministry I run, namely, within the framework of the Centre for Education in Justice, we have the opportunity to educate judges and to do more than has been done so far. The fifth set of amendments, which are also ready and some will be prepared, relate to a more rational organisation of the judiciary. Here I am not referring to a micro-organism, to this so-called case management or how it manages individual cases that come to court, but to the organisation of the judiciary as such. We know what kind of judicial organization we have — district, county, higher, supreme court. Here we intend to go towards rationalisation in the first stage, where more emphasis will be given to the District Courts, the so-called District Courts. This is some rationalisation that we think will contribute to greater efficiency of the judiciary, i.e. the reduction of judicial proceedings. Finally, let me say that it is only necessary to acknowledge that in the last few months, the judiciary has made some moves towards rationalisation of its own [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] done with already observed results. [[...]] And I can't help but realize that this is probably also partly a consequence of the government's policy last year, when I myself have consistently pointed out that the judiciary is not effective enough and that this efficiency needs to be rectified quickly. We don't have much time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You still have a proposal for a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your complementary answers. Given that the reform of justice is one of the key reforms, I would suggest that the debate be held in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 24 April 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question. Ms Kristina Valenčič will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister of Education, Science and Sport, other ministers present! Today, quite a few words have already been said about the public financial image of Slovenia, which unfortunately is not pink, according to Umar's predictions. The public financial situation in Slovenia remains acute, the situation in the sovereign bond markets remains uncertain, economic activity in the euro area will continue to decline this year. Also this year, we expect further declines in economic activity. We are therefore forced to proceed with financial consolidation, the rehabilitation of the banking system and the rationalisation of the public sector, even though this is painful and unpopular. This includes possible measures in the field of education, which have already been announced in the previous government and have greatly upset employees in schools and primary schools. I am talking about changes in standards and standards in kindergartens and primary schools and about changes in primary education environments and status forms of primary schools. Your predecessor has launched this process and, unfortunately, has ended it because of the forecast political crisis. I come from a congregation where we have about 900 compulsory children and 7 separate primary schools. I am aware that changes are also needed in the area of the primary school network. Due to the excessive public sector, and in today's situation we cannot afford it, but also because of the changed developmental progress, the changing habits of life and the different service obligations of parents and old parents, certain changes are necessary. Nevertheless, we must be careful in the preparation of these measures and take into account broader circumstances, such as demographic and geographical specificities, as under-developed and over-advanced measures can impoverish Slovenian rural areas in the long term and have a poor impact on the development of the whole society. Of course, the most important thing about everything is that we take all the measures for the benefit of our children. To give them the opportunity to develop their potentials and abilities. In a less brutal way, the Prime Minister today said. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What measures are you planning in this area? Where do you see the possibility of rationalization? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u100	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u101	Madam President, Madam Members, first of all, thank you very much for this question. Let me put it this way. Quality education must be an imperative of this country. I think all of us sitting here are working for the good of it, and I don't think there's any difference here. However, there are differences as to whether these rationalisations can only be in the network of schools, norms and standards or not. I myself think that norms and standards are not the only rationalisation that is possible and that other rationalisations are possible. The specific example that you mention is the case of seven primary schools in Illyrian Bistrica, which have about 900 children, of which two schools have two thirds of all children, while the other five have a third. All of these schools are not branch schools, but all of these schools have the status of independent primary schools. And that's exactly why this case of yours comes up. What we are doing, or what we are going to do about the school network, is to first ask the founders to act in accordance with all the criteria and the basic school funding regulation. It is also likely that the status issue will need to be adjusted in some primary school. Perhaps your congregation is one of those typical examples where this could be done. But at this point, I'd like to highlight something. I would like to point out that this must always be done in cooperation with all stakeholders, in cooperation with the public concerned, the professional community, the local community and also with trade unions. That's something that's very important. What we see in our ministry is that the founder’s tasks, that is, the congregations, are often not respected. My predecessor went to some dialogue with the founders as well as with the primary schools, but I must say, as far as I have reports on these matters, the founders have repeatedly failed to respect the criteria and the founders have not respected the regulation governing this area many times. If we've talked about quality imperative before, we need to be aware of something. We must be aware that neither too good nor too low concentration of children. We need to find what's technically acceptable. We all know that we have public finances, as you have defined them, public financial challenges and we need to find the right conditions for these and such details to be regulated, but sometimes systemic issues to be settled. I'd say we have another option, not just standards and standards and not just schools. Right now, we have also sent some of our proposals to the government how we can achieve rationalisation, not by reducing standards and standards, with smaller interventions to the school network. But what's crucial here is that in the long run, so we're not talking about tomorrow, I'm talking about 20 years to ensure the comparative advantage that the OECD also recognizes, and these are extremely well-organized kindergartens, i.e. preschool education, and on the other hand an extremely good primary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Just a question. I agree with your answer that communication with all stakeholders is certainly very important. That's why I'm just asking: Have you already begun this arrangement with the municipalities or mayors, for it is our case that proves that the rules and standards already established are not respected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u104	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We're with some people, but you'll understand that we haven't had all this conversation. But right now we're also having conversations about high school, and there's a different situation, but that's part of this everyday process that we're doing at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Interior and Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Members are simply not coordinating the content of the questions sent among themselves, so it has happened to me that, practically, Mr Horvat has asked the same question as I have prepared myself, so I will be a little shorter and I will say so. Look, Minister, I'm aware of this 158 million that you're talking about missing salaries, but the concept of the former government was slightly different. The concept of the former government was not that we were planning EUR 158 million short of salaries, but that the 158 million you are mentioning should be transferred to the responsibility of individual sources or the responsibility of individual budget consumers, including in the field of education. We have been left to ministers to carry out measures in their own department that will lower wages. As far as the internal affairs department is concerned, we both know how I handed over the situation, but at the same time, the following must be said. That the linear measures that you are planning, I am aware of all the problems that are in the negotiations with the unions, especially those who are now responsible for them, police can strike also pre-emptively – in stock, you know, when there is nothing wrong with them, let alone when something is wrong. But that's what you have to say. In the internal area during the time of Mrs Kresalova, Mr Zalar and my time, we have reduced the number of employees by 800 or almost 10% of the police. This account has been saved in the national budget of around €32 million at annual level, amounting to again about 1.5 months' salary for all police employees. Otherwise, we have the resources to mention school, although I belong to him very much in his professional career, but look, in the school area, the situation is that the number of employees has increased significantly in the previous term, even in our mandate we have not been successful in reducing the number of employees. The criteria that we have in schools, especially in primary, secondary and elsewhere, are like the richest European country. When we went to school alone, at least the sea generation, we were about 30, 35, and now there are 18 in the class. And when we wanted to raise this criterion ourselves a little bit, there was a scream and a scream. What I'm asking is: Where will you take the matter so you won't do the wrong because you wouldn't want me to? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u108	Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for asking, too. Perhaps first, dear fellow Gorenak! Even in this house, a note, a note that I have already made publicly, that you have actually handed me a very orderly house, at least once so shows, and the problems are significantly smaller than they could be in any other area or as if they were otherwise. With regard to rationalisation in internal affairs and in the police, because much has already been done, I am aware, and I have also assured the two police unions that these rationalisations will be taken into account and that the measures that will work on salaries will not go in this direction to punish those organisations and those managers in the public sector that have already done something. Of course, it is necessary to know that the police alone cannot take care of this year's pay line hole. With the best efforts of the police leadership at the end of the year, no change would be less than 2 million and a half euros per salary. And since ZIPRO has closed the possibility of redistributing funds from material costs to wages, even this would not be possible to solve the problem. We will solve the problems in part by slightly opening up ZIPRO, allowing one part of the savings on material costs to be transferred to wages. The police may be able to solve their entire problem with this. What will be lacking in justice throughout the public sector – and something will have to be done here, because today it is clear to everyone, even to trade unions, that is clear, and we will leave that payroll to the police, which has already done a lot for rationalisation. This may sound somewhat complicated, but simplified means that if a certain part of the savings are realized at material costs, they will be carried over to the salaries and fully covered the entire hole, and if there is an additional savings due to the reduction of certain rights, such as the work-life allowance, this salary will remain on the police and can be spent in a fair manner, i.e. to pay the over-average burdens, the increased amount of overtime work etc., where the problem is today. This is where the police run out. We all know that police stations are very different. We all know what the police did during the demonstration, how many hours of extra work, of exposure. And it has to be paid, in any way. So my assessment is, I've also given it to the unions so that the police's salary will not go down this year, but will increase more by reallocations from material costs. The only distribution of this payroll among police officers may be slightly different. For example, if the work-life allowance decreases, this part can be channelled to pay off the over-average burdens and overtime. And in a lot of other organizations, that's how it's gonna be. Not at some point, though, because some of them either failed to go to rationalization or could not go. The school has a slightly different situation here. The space at material costs is very small or almost nothing and they cannot do the same as the police, who may buy a car less or save a litre of petrol, and this is intended for wages. There's no room for this manoeuvre in education. In fact, it would be the only way to change standards and standards, which I think would be useful to think about, but the position of the SWITZ is well-known. If I draw the line, the rationalisation so far will be taken into account in the sense that the police will not be taken into account from the payroll, but maybe the distribution between the police, the payments between the police will be slightly different, I think even more just.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you very much for the introduction on our surrender and condition. I'm just calm, I'm not gonna say no. In fact, I had a feeling in public that you'd hit everyone and then you'd really have a bad conscience that we'd reduced the number of employees by about 400 in the past year. If that were the case, you'd have a really bad conscience. But if this is as you say, then I am satisfied with this and much success in the negotiations; not only with the police, but also with the other unions. I've come so far that the minister has the opportunity to take advantage of it if he wants to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'm going to take this minute because I think the darkness is really so important that things need to be said as clearly and transparently as possible. The public sector's wage problem for 2013 must be fully addressed. The situation is very different from the budgetary user to the budgetary user, but a large majority of budget users, but if they put themselves on the table, cannot push the rights belonging to public servants into the planned salary without violating any law. However, we cannot ask the hospital director or the principal of primary school to lower the salary by breaking the law; let's say he pays 10% lower wages or does not replace the math teacher, but the programme has to be implemented. So the situation is really very, very different. Therefore, here the Government must not put its head in the sand and cannot just leave it to all individual budget users to solve the problem, because they simply cannot solve it. It's impossible. Since this is not possible, it is necessary to cut down on linear measures that will also go towards the reduction of certain rights or the freezing of certain rights. Those who have already saved in other ways, however, will be able to use this difference for something that we all lack very much in the public sector, which is a mass for work performance. That's an extra problem. In 2009, 2010, 2011, when the public sector was torn down, the labour performance mass first collapsed and there was virtually nothing left today, no money left to reward those who are better, who are more successful, who are more efficient, who are more working and so on. We've done a lot of balancing. This proposal, made by the Government on the table to primarily reach into the work-life allowance, is aimed at countering this balance sheet. In the public sector, there is a system from the memorial where it is largely built on seniority. People are making automatic progress, they get a higher salary over the years, and they get an extra allowance for working time, and the wages are essentially unfairly distributed. Young people are hurt. We are therefore taking these measures in this direction so that young people, or those with shorter working hours, would not be affected by rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mag. Jana Jenko will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you so much for the opportunity to ask a question. I have a question for Minister Stepišnik. We are at a joint meeting of the Committee on Monetary Policy and Finance and the Ministry of Economy two months ago, so to speak, 21. 2. 2013, dealt with the issue of Pek. You were also present at the meeting, and at that time we ordered the Government and the competent authorities to make a successful sale to Pekko as soon as possible. As you know, Peck's agony, once our tomato horse's shoemaking, has been going on for several years. The fact is that the owners, among them the state, behaved quite irresponsiblely towards the development and existence of Pekko and jobs, and the share of the blame is also borne by the economic crisis. Following the decision of the Pek owners to sell the latter and after the long-term search procedures of the strategic partner at the end of last month, it has already been shown that Pek is looking forward to better times, since all owners agreed to sell Pek to the Croatian company Cemompex. All sales documentation must also be reviewed at the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. It was at the Ministry of the Economy that after a thorough review of the financial guarantees provided by the buyers, you found that the guarantees in question were not sufficient. Here came a serious problem: selling the company to the buyer or finding another solution. Given that time has been running relentlessly, Pekko has been insolvent for some time now, to delay production in the factory due to the lack of operating resources and thus to lose business, that the salaries of employees are questionable from month to month, I wonder whether the ministry, the government and the state, as owner, will play the role of a good host and show that we know and have the will and a serious intention to help our economy. I want to know: What are these guarantees that the buyer has offered? In Slovenia, there are still many insolvent companies owned by the country, so I am interested in: Will all state-owned companies that will be sold in the future require the same guarantees and thus ensure that existing jobs are maintained and that new jobs are opened? I want to know: What will happen to Pekko in the coming days, months, perhaps even years? I am concerned that Pekko will be another of the many companies where the interests of individuals and capital will prevail before the interest of preserving jobs and promoting economic activities on domestic soils. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u116	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you so much for the questions. In fact, the story of Pek has been going on for a very long time, and in the last ten years, practically Pekko has invested nothing in his company, except that they bought one machine a year ago; the average age of employees is 50 years, so that it will actually have to do a lot for the development of the company. Well, last month at Peck's, we did the following. The contract concluded with Crampex or the group that worked on the sale of shares sold it to Crampex. The basic contract was quite well placed. In fact, the purchase is 2 million, 2 million is invested as soon as ownership is acquired, 6 million euro is invested in the coming years until 2017 as a recapitalisation, and 2 million of it is invested in investments either for technological renewal or for improvement of the staffing structure, knowledge and so on. Another 2 million credits must be given to this company in order to obtain material. The worst part about it was the guarantees. Like the guarantees given by the buyer from Crampex, we call this corporate guarantees, he mainly pawned his companies. When we redefine what this means, we have found that practically these companies are already burdened, except for one company that would be able to guarantee this obligation that we have imposed by 2017 for workers. The main concern of the State is that the company retains that the entity that buys it also develops it further. Here we had a certain suspicion that it was a sale of the sales network of shops in Yugoslavia, and this buyer did not want to agree from the outset to be leased these premises in the purchasing option, for example, and to sell them for a single euro after the five years of this lease. In the last two or three days, or this weekend, it happened that we only succeeded in purchasing the option, so that if something happens in five years, the country will buy back Pek's assets for one euro. This also applies to the Clearing House of Depot Society, which is said to be written where the shares are. Even if a shareholding company has a desire to change into a d.o.o., it will be regulated, in proportion to the annex in the contract, that it cannot sell this property within five years. In this way, I think there is some security for employees who need to keep 280 from 380 to 2017, and the country also has an option, if this customer does not carry out this programme, to put the company up and hire these people to get the property back for one euro and then to save it for another way. I hope that today this agreement, or this annex to the basic contract, will be signed and thus sold by Pekko during today or tomorrow. The biggest problem is these guarantees. The State must take care of its employees and if someone puts employees in the employment establishment in the following year, then if there are not enough guarantees, if there is no bank guarantee or such a purchase option, this will remain at the expense of the State. But we didn't want that, and we don't want that in the future, so we're going to have all of those sales that were set before us, and we're going to be very careful to see what's going on with these guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u118	Here you go, Mrs. Jenko. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much for your answer. We continue with the next question. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the rapporteur a question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is absent. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Croatia will become a member of the European Union and customs checks will be lifted, meaning in other words that control of goods will no longer be carried out at customs crossings with the Republic of Croatia. This means a certain reorganisation of the customs service, which also means that a certain rationalisation in this service will be possible. That is why several previous governments have already done so, and above all the previous government has done a project to bring together the customs and tax administrations. The customs and tax administration should therefore be more efficient, a new company or a new establishment should be called a financial administration and it could also be possible to redistribute people and effectively ensure greater efficiency and rationalisation. The efficiency of the tax administration or financial administration is particularly important because it provides more revenue to the budget, which is, of course, positive, which is what the President of the Government has talked about today. On the other hand, rationalisation of expenditure also represents the priority of this government. It is therefore surprising that the Government has withdrawn from this project, in fact, this project started about one year ago, meaning in other words that working groups have been set up. This work has now been suspended and, after all, the legal process has been interrupted, the right procedure. In fact, the Government has decided that the law adopted by the previous Government will not go into further proceedings and that the merger of the customs and tax administration has been postponed. First: I want to know why. Second: How long will this project be delayed, and what does this mean financially for the Republic of Slovenia? How much more will this cost, and how much will it actually cost? Given that Minister Chufer is not present at this meeting, I would like an oral response to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much, mag. Spread out. At your request, Minister Uroš Cufer will answer your question orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space to Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In the previous term, I have asked the competent minister, at the time Dr. Vlačič, several times a question relating to the issue of the construction of the 13km motorway section between Dražans and Gruškov. It is the only unfinished most important section of the extremely busy Pyrna highway, which leads from Germany through Austria, Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia all the way to Turkey, which causes a lot of overriding to the local population, as well as to foreigners who use this section, could say, nonstop, especially during the tourist season, and makes them further major problems due to unbroken columns. There was a lot of promise and desire from the Minister’s responses at the time, but unfortunately they did not come true and it seems that they will not be for a long time. The Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for this Section was adopted in September 2010. Most of the land was to be purchased in 2011 and 2012, and the start of construction was foreseen for this year, according to the then minister, while the completion of the investment was foreseen for 2015. Unfortunately, these promises remain only a mild thirsty for residents living off the national road E59 Drazenci-Zgornje Gruškovje, and the quality of life due to the unfinished highway is unsustainable. as well as for us, who for many years have been alerting this problem and the poor response of the competent institutions, nothing happens. That the bad impression that foreigners have about our country, which, after hundreds of kilometres of regulated highways, are brought to Slovenia or by Austria or by Croatia, and they run into a poorly maintained state road that is saturated with transit traffic, I do not mention. Along the road on the border of Croatia with Slovenia stands the big table You have come to the European Union. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What activities are currently taking place at the future section of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway? How many percentages of land on the route have already been bought out? What concrete measures will you take to improve the living conditions of citizens and citizens living on the E59 Drazenci-Gornje Gruškovje State Road and have the negative effects of large amounts of transit transport every day? When is it realistic to expect the start and completion of an investment in this motorway section? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u122	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u123	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members, distinguished fellow ministers, distinguished Mr. Ribič! I thank you for my first question. I wish I had the opportunity today to answer this first question that the work has already begun. I'm afraid I have to say that's not the case. However, activities at the Ministry are intensively conducted. At this point geodetic works, measurements, and treatments were carried out on the first half of the route, on the second part of the route the treatments were scheduled in early May. This week, interviews with the owners of the demolition facilities are under way and the purchase of land has not yet begun. The purchase of land will therefore begin after the partial decisions issued by GURS have been issued. Supposed to be the start of the buy-in within two months. We are aware of the situation and how infrastructure is undervalued or overburdened at the moment. We are aware of the situation of the people in this area right now. My colleagues from the Ministry informed me that certain measures have already been taken in the past, but unfortunately they have not achieved the desired effects. I am afraid that the only real answer to this question is the completion of this highway section, which I believe we all want at this point. As far as the timetable is concerned, all activities are currently taking place within the framework of the timetable we have set ourselves. However, I must say that the beginning of the construction is foreseen in the second half of 2014, and the completion of the construction is foreseen in the second half of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you, Minister, for your concrete and realistic response. My intention is to draw attention to this issue in the National Assembly, and I am aware that you are new to this area, so it was so much more important for me to face it. I understand that after such a short period of time, it is difficult to find concrete answers to such difficult content as the planning and construction of a road that has been going on for more than ten years and I am afraid that it will obviously be another ten years. But your answer, even though you've only been in charge of the Ministry for a month, has not convinced me the most. For as far as I know, the project for construction documentation is called PGD, and for some time it has been in a drawer in the Jesenicas and the PZI is not even ordered. In addition, the land should not even be redeemed. As you say, conversations are now taking place — which makes me happy. I am somehow counting on an optimal scenario that if the activities related to this project start at this time, it is by buying up land, by demolishing buildings – I think there are more than 20 – with the execution of public procurement – there may be some lawsuits – by closing the financial structure of the project and others, construction can only start in 2015. This would mean that the foreigners who cross our country from Austria to Croatia and vice versa will, at best, admire our country for at least four years when they are brought to a short but tortured section of the road, where they lose a lot of time and energy. That the bad impression they have in our country I'm not even talking about. Again, I ask you: Is it realistic to expect the completion of the investment by 2017? And I'm asking you to look at this section together and see why. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The very information that any documentation would be in any drawer, I don't have it right now. I can assure you that as far as the ministry is concerned, we are working very hard. Today is my 14th day of the Ministry. Not only in this area, but also in other areas, we are very intensively reviewing the documentation and state of the individual projects. The team working on this project assures me that it is real that the work starts in 2014. I will also take a closer look at the potential potential existing threats and, if they exist, we will do everything we can to ensure that the future plan, which has been put in place, is also fulfilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u128	Here you go. Request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you for that answer, too. Once again, I would like to have a very well-intentioned discussion on the basis of Article 246, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because we will have to discuss the substance, and this is where we will withdraw the funds and redirect them to this investment. So I think it's important for everyone here to talk about it together. I hope you'll give me this chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Ribič, will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 24 April 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question put by Eva Irgl to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister of Education, Science and Sport! In the announcement of the oral question, I have told you that I will ask you what measures you will take in the field of copyright protection. Now let me be more specific about my question. The debate on plagiarism in obtaining scientific titles has been taking place in the public, including in the professional profession. We have the President of the Government, who is suspected to have partly copied her master's job and is now also in the verification process, which according to the university's eminent representatives is expected to last up to six months. We will probably both agree that scientific titles are certainly not a joke, but such an extensive time frame of inquiry raises at least doubts about the correctness of the procedure, even if we know that this has been resolved significantly faster in some other individuals. One thing is important: on the one hand, we have obviously such individuals, who are supposed to have come to the scientific title on the disputed path, and today, they hold the highest positions in the executive branch of power, and on the other hand, we have individuals who have worked hard to obtain a master's and doctoral title, who have not served the acquisition of intellectual property, but whose employment is far beyond their reach, because they either have no real connections or have no opportunity at all to show their knowledge. Therefore, I ask you, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, the following questions: How will you protect the integrity of the higher education system, in particular all those professors and students who carry out their work in obtaining scientific titles in a professional and foreign manner, but are treated with respect by both them and the institution themselves because of the suspicions of plagiarism in the public? How will you protect their integrity and the integrity of the higher education system? I also want to know: What measures will you propose to better protect the copyright of someone who has an idea, a thought or something else written down and someone else has been able to seize it for their own? So much for the first part, and then we'll see if I can ask you another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Irgle. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for this matter. Something about the works first. The works are not only what we usually talk about, but are all spoken, written, musical, theatre, puppet, musical, choreography, pantomime, photographic, audiovisual, art, architectural plans, then art and so on. When we talk about overall copyright protection, we have a 2007 law, which I think, if you ask me, is properly regulated by this area of all copyright protection. Last but not least, it was adopted in this high assembly and so far, except for these cases of plagiarism, we had no major problems with the works. As for this particular question that you have asked, I think my position is clear, and I have expressed it several times, so that we are actually running here, perhaps not just the second, but even the third round. For the last time in the presentation on plagiarism, the Ministry made it very clear that, as far as plagiarism is concerned, fraud, so to speak, what is called copyright property, that it is unacceptable and that this is something in this country, in one way or another, morally or legally, must be sanctioned. We're on the same side here. Another time. I think that the issue of sanctioning plagiarism or the way in which it is concerned is the internal autonomy of the university or a better or worse university. It is a question of quality, it is a question of how and how university procedures internally guarantee this own quality. We also have different cultural attitudes towards plagiarism in the world. In some cultural environments, it is totally unacceptable and highly sanctioned, and in other cultural environments it is also unacceptable and perhaps slightly less severely sanctioned. But in any case, it's an unacceptable practice. And you are right – yes, those who do the right thing must be protected! At the committee hearing, I said that it's not so much legislation as I think it's a matter of some kind of process. That this is a process that is increasingly moving away on one side, because the possibilities of plagiarism with technical means are increasingly different and increasingly upgraded, and on the other hand you have the technology to monitor it and try plagiarism, which is progressing with technical progress, also control. I think that by warning, I think that with these cases that are now in the public eye, we are doing well in terms of awareness, awareness that this practice is unacceptable and that not even in future such things are going to happen. That's right, when you say that it is necessary to protect the integrity of those who do well, I even think that the vast majority work well and honestly. True, though, individuals who do not want to work or want to get close to success are not their own success. And it's, as we say, a process that we're going to play for a long time, we're not going to solve it with one act, but it's important that we both have this awareness in higher education and in society that it's something that's not supposed to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u134	You'll get your word right away. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, by the way, I would just like to remind or propose that we stick to the questions raised by the Members. In fact, in the specific case of Mrs Eve Irgle, I find that she has asked a question that I will just read: "Honored! I wonder: What measures will you take in the field of works of art?" That was Mrs Irgle's question. If I look back, I note that last year, Dr. Žiga Turk, the previous minister, even answered one of these questions when the question was somewhat broader, that if some of the question was also made in writing by Members or Members in a particular case, the answer would also be easier and clearer. What I'm trying to say is, let's try to stick to the projected written questions. Here you go, colleague, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u135	Madam President, I think your words are quite out of order. Mr. Secretary and I got along very well. I asked questions, and he answered all my questions very well, but I have some additional questions, because I think this is an extremely important issue. Of course, Minister, we both know that universities are autonomous. There's no doubt about that. However, you are the Minister for Education, Science and Sport and I am interested in: How do you feel about such questions? That's why I want to know: How will you proceed with universities and higher education institutions, which, in some cases, as we have seen so far, obviously do not exercise sufficient preventive control over the acquisition of works of art? Last but not least, if you want to do it in person: How do you, as a man, as a minister of education, as a professor in one of the colleges, view sitting in a government run by a person who is being accused of being serious, that some sides of his master's assignment to a comma and a dot accurately, including with all the mistakes worth transcribing and not stating the source? Let me get this straight. It's about acquiring intellectual copyright. The author is obliged to indicate the sources from which he drew, even if he was involved in their production or even their author, which is something the President of the Government would like to tell us several times. He is therefore bound to identify himself as a source. You probably know this very well, Mr. Minister, as well as the professor, and I am really interested in your opinion on the fact that you are sitting in the government of the President of the Government, on which there are serious accusations of the suspicion of plagiarism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u136	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I hope you'll understand that I'm having a hard time commenting on one part of that story that you last highlighted. Not because it would be hard to comment on in general, away from it. But simply because I'm not familiar with the procedure that goes on in one of the colleges. I know how in the statute, I know that the writing of the Statute, when we talk about a specific university, was published this year in January, which, because of such cases, very precisely defined the procedure. I think it's too much to talk about taking six or more months. That's not what the statute says. It says exactly what the procedure is. I think that this procedure also has very clear fuses, both for one side and the other; I think that the process will be completed sooner or later; but I certainly think it would be inappropriate for it to last for six months. However, everyone in this country is entitled to the procedure. And it's right, I think it's right for us to leave the commission that does this to do its job and then get to know the faculty Senate first, and probably the universities and then the public. This procedure must run and it is right to proceed. As far as my opinion of scientific work is concerned. My opinion is clear. I've said it before. I'd like to say something else. Interestingly, this part of intellectual property, for example, belongs to the Ministry of Fellow Stepišnik, as the Office of Intellectual Property, and not, for example, where most of this intellectual property is also created. We're talking about education, we're talking about higher education, and not least about science. This may be one of those systemic things – if we are talking about my response to this – that could be considered, so that such an intellectual property office could also be where the most of these new intellectual property is also created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much, both of you. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Andrej Chus will ask the Minister of Economic Development and Technology a question. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues, colleagues and, of course, ministers! I myself have decided to put my first question, even what I have put here, from an area which, I can say, is very problematic. Everybody talks about it a lot, everybody knows it, but it's not much to do. I am talking about regional development and reducing differences in development. I also come from the ptuj work, i.e. the Podravska part of Slovenia, where I see this difference in development every day between different cities and regions. For example, I, as a Ptujcan, go to Ljubljana, see great differences – what is it then in other congregations! For example, when we look at the Podravsko or Pomursko region, we have exactly the highest or worst rated indices of developmental hazard. In recent days or weeks, I have also noticed in the media that in 2011 about 60% of these funds were allocated to the Central Slovenian region or to Ljubljana with its surroundings. While the city municipality of Ptuj, Maribor, and the municipality of Maribor, included, for example, Podravju, which included this classification, this share was 6 %. The Carinthian region, for example, is only 2%, which is a terrible information. After this we can see and from this data we can conclude that we already have in the system of the country, i.e. since birth, the system of inequality; so, when someone is born, let's say in Goriška, Lendava, I can also say where in Koroška, he will be in a worse, deprived position against those born and then developing his talents in Ljubljana, Nova Gorica and Koper. My specific question to Mr Stepišnik is: The differences between regions in Slovenia are unfortunately enormous. It is common for left-wing governments to be even more supportive of developed centres and cities. What is your plan and package of measures that will reduce the differences in development between regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mag. Stepan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. I think that every government, and also this government, has set itself the primary objective of reducing the differences between regions. As you know, we now have an Eastern and Western region, and also these European funds available will be shared between the East, which will receive much more than the Western region. The coalition has set itself a task in the document itself to reduce these developmental differences between the provinces or between the regions. This is the basic guiding principle of these national development priorities. This is the task that all ministries in their areas must carry out, and we will continue the debate on regionalisation, focusing on regional development and spatial planning. In particular, at our Ministry at the Directorate for Regional Development and European Central Cooperation and the Directorate for Enterprise, Competitiveness and Technology, we are implementing the following measures to reduce differences between regions. Pomurje, Po Kolopje, Popočje. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will continue to implement the plan and package of measures for the least developed regions. This applies both to Pomurje, where we continue to implement the so-called Pomurje law – you probably know well – as to Pokulpe, where we continue to implement the Government of the Republic of Slovenia programme relating to the development of seven municipalities in Pokulpe, and to Posačje, where the Act on the subversive reconstruction and development assistance to Posoča is still being implemented in 2013. Under these three sets of measures, we already have the following realization in 2013: under the Development Support Act, we have issued three public tenders this year: for initial investments in the economy, for the development of human resources, for the employment of graduates in technological enterprises and for the promotion of, above all, what is very important for future social entrepreneurship at a total value of €8.5 million. Since the multi-annual tenders are listed, the year 2013 amounts to €3.4 million. The fourth call for the promotion of smaller initial investments up to 0.6 million grants and 0.3 million from the regional guarantee scheme is under preparation. Under the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, a government development support programme was adopted for Pocolp, where in 2013 we published a two-year tender of EUR 4.8 million, of which EUR 2.4 million relates to 2013. The conclusions for slightly less than 50 companies receiving aid are already signed. On the basis of the Earthquake Restoration and Development Promotion Act in Posoč, in 2013 we launched a public call for initial investments for new jobs worth €0.4 million. We also intend to publish a public tender for a limited region in 2013 on the basis of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region and the adopted programme of the Government for Development Support to the Pokolp in order to promote research development projects of EUR 6.5 million. European funds, this is the second set, the European Regional Development Fund. In the border area with Croatia, the Ministry is currently in the process of signing conclusions for 30 municipalities, which will receive aid of around €23 million. The aim of this action under the Operational Programme for the Development of the Regions – Priority 4.2 under that nomenclature – is to promote development in an area also lags behind other areas in the Republic of Slovenia by means of European means. In the context of the 6th public call, about 150 recipients of community funds will be known in April or May, who have asked for co-financing of various infrastructure projects. Since all the funds will not be used at this call, we will publish a 7th public call at the Ministry of Economic Development in the currently estimated value of the circus between €40 million and €50 million. Financing of projects under the Law on the financing of municipalities. The co-financing of projects under the Community Financing Act is under way, with some 370 projects projected at the total value of the circus €43 million. On the basis of legal provisions, the criteria under which less developed municipalities receive more resources are built into the acquisition of these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u142	Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you for your answers. I would also like to continue the debate a little bit. In the whole of our independence, the area of regionalisation and some equivalent development of the regions has been dealt with by a really huge state apparatus, which was for this, I believe paid fairly, and I am interested: Do you think that the competent regionalism services, i.e. for more consistent development, have done their job? Are we at a point where we can be satisfied with them today, or are we disappointed? Do you think that more coherent regionalisation could be at the expense of regions if we introduced regionalisation of Slovenia? We had a referendum on this, for example. Do you think that we could then draw better European funds? Here you have also talked a lot about the Pomurska region and the region of Pokolpja, and if I may put it this way, I am interested in: Can we hope for additional calls in the Podravska region, where youth unemployment is also above average? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Otherwise, I would just say: just before we talked about the questions. In fact, this issue has also been raised widely, Mr Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much for the additional question. Above all, it is important that all stakeholders cooperate with services dealing with the equivalence of conditions in all regions. It is very important that all stakeholders in the region take part in the new financial perspective 2014-2020, but above all it is extremely important that you Members take initiatives and then follow up on these tasks. It is the task of Members to also take care of certain funds to be allocated to European funds for the regions by giving incentives which projects should be made in regions that would actually have a very large multiplier effect. This is particularly true for 2014-2020, since in the financial perspective 2007-2013 these European funds were extremely fragmented, 4.1 and 2 billion respectively. Today, the result of these fragmented resources is that there are no new jobs, that jobs have not been kept, and even less that we have more added value in existing places. This is why it is extremely important, even for you Members, including from these areas, to participate in this year's year, because this year's platform for 2014-2020 is being developed, and we want to focus in particular on resources in larger regional projects that will have a multiple effect – including agriculture, tourism and so on – and especially on such projects that will create new jobs that will preserve new jobs and increase added value. Less in some facilities, which are then maintained – you know, maintenance money is not as it was in the past, asphalt, concrete, various candelabras and buildings that need great maintenance. It can only be added that the new problems of the high unemployment areas that are emerging today, where unemployment is greater than 17%, and that this lasts more than 3 months, some measures are being prepared for these areas, as well as for those areas that I mentioned earlier: Sootje, Pomurje and so on. I'm just afraid that all of Slovenia won't need such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We will proceed with the next question of Parliament, Dr László Göncz will ask the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment of Mags a question. To Diane Jedhan, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am asking the Minister a question concerning the pooling of meliorated areas and asking him to answer the question orally at the next meeting. Although many agricultural areas have been meliorated in the Pomurje area in the past, we are still facing serious problems. In particular, there are problems in the maintenance of the system, or not everywhere, but there are very negative consequences in critical places. The inadequate situation is mainly in areas where agricultural areas are privately owned, which is also problematic because agricultural land owners regularly receive invoices and also pay obligations in this regard. The biggest systemic problem is that, due to the inconsistent maintenance of the mediocrity ditches, these have become poorly flowed due to vegetation. In recent years, floods have also been more intense as a result of inconsistent maintenance in certain areas. Under the law, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is responsible for the systematic regulation of the regular maintenance of inflows and the entire network of melioration ditches. The Ministry of Landowners shall determine each year the payment of a dose of funds for the maintenance and regular operation of the system. Based on this dose, maintenance funds are collected, but unfortunately, due to the lack of resources and possibly inconsistent information, the bulk of Pomurje is excluded from the dosage system, at least according to our information, so regular and investment works on existing systems are missing. In view of all of this, I believe that these are systemic shortcomings that cause problems mainly in the Pomur region, but I suppose they may be wider. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How will the competent services improve the system as soon as possible and balance the maintenance priorities of the meliorated areas or systems on the most vulnerable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Due to the official absence of the Minister of Magi. You will receive an oral response from the Jewish, respected Dr. László Göncz at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Daniel Krivec to the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Samo Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! I will ask some fundamental questions, which were also raised at the hearing, where I believe that the Minister, who was a candidate at the time, could not answer. I believe that, during this period, he has also been familiar with some of the issues at the Ministry, and I would like to hear how this ministry will lead the issue of adopting spatial municipal plans, of adopting other state plans, as this is a prerequisite for all the other measures taken by the Government in the area of investment start-up. We have been hearing a lot about black construction recently, and it is important to be aware that non-admission of spatial legislation is also some kind of black building generator and allows especially construction for those in some difficulty to wait for the adoption of certain spatial plans, and in this period, clearly, they are also taking some steps. That is why I am also interested in these cases: How will the Ministry proceed? With the rapid adoption of these plans, probably a number of black constructions would not have happened during this period. The second thing I'm interested in is the admission process or the procedure for obtaining building permits. The hearing raised a question and the answer was not clear enough. I am therefore interested in interpreting the duality of the procedure: Is this a procedure that will lead to the already known acquisition of a location permit and in the next phase of the building permit?We have had this in space legislation in the past. Is there any other solution? I also want to know: How will the previous Minister, in particular, respond to the further guidance provided by the previous Ministry leadership? Are you going to redraw these directions, or what will be your priorities? Will the solutions that will be presented be left entirely to the profession, or is this a policy on the ministerial team, which the Minister will also advocate in some way? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u150	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to say about the procedure for preparing and adopting the UNJO, which was last amended in July 2012. I was informed that the guidelines and the problems he was alerting were going in the right direction, but I would like to point out at this point that content is crucial. What do I mean by that? I have to admit, when I started looking for information, data at the Ministry, that I was unfavorably surprised, that we do not actually have clear, exact data, how much non-conformity we have in Slovenia, how many illegal objects we have in Slovenia and how many buildings we have in Slovenia, which were otherwise built according to the documentation, and later the use of the facilities itself is not the same as was planned at the beginning. Therefore, I hope that in some way I will respond well enough to you by describing the activities we are currently carrying out at the Ministry. I believe that the key to success in this area is knowing the real situation at this time. We are in the process of forming an expert team, an expert commission, which will have clear tasks to make at this time a section of the state in the country, that we know exactly that we have the exact data, that we can operate with them and make professional decisions based on them. I believe that such good models, as well as good legislation, if we start on the wrong assumptions, if we enter the wrong numbers that we do not have at the moment, the success of this project is at stake. Therefore, this group, which will be established in a short period of time, has the task of making a cross-border situation in the country and, on the basis of these data, then adopting all the necessary guidelines for how to continue to regulate this area. The two-phase system of building permits has not yet been broken down to this extent, in order to be able to present precisely how this will work. However, the fact is that we have already had such a model in the past, and the fact is that this model needs to be adjusted slightly in the light of the actual state of play. This will also be one of the results based on the country's current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u152	Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thanks for the answers. In a way, you answered some things, but I'm still interested in this group: What is your idea of a concrete way to accelerate the adoption of municipal spatial plans? In fact, certain development priorities are being hampered. On the other hand, I wonder: Have you had any discussions between the departments, especially with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment? This is important in this scheme to promote the adoption of municipal spatial plans, as well as other plans, if we know that the Government has recently adopted the extension of protected areas, in particular Nature. Thus, on some things we will try to do some analysis, and on other segments we are overtaking or re-insuring certain things, probably without fully aligning the issue with the development priorities that the Ministry of Economy or your ministry also advocates. I'm curious, given that you mentioned the problem of black construction: Is it possible that your orientation is similar to what the previous ministry has somehow prepared for the conditional legalisation of individual black constructions, which are often not even black constructions, but the constructions that occur due to the non-admission of certain spatial documents, but have all the possibilities to somehow fit into later adopted plans; is it said, a similar concept as Croatia has now introduced? Are we in the position that absolutely all black constructions must be demolished? So this is some meaningful legalisation, including the concept of this change in spatial plans, because in some ways it would also allow certain revenues to be made into municipal budgets and also into the state budget. On the other hand, it would not have caused too much revolt among people, and in some way it would have been financially able to consolidate both the municipal budgets and the state budget, at least to a lesser extent. This would probably also relieve the ministry in certain directions. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u154	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Why did I want to set up a commission after a rapid procedure to collect real data on the situation in Slovenia? Given what measures we will take, we must also be aware of the consequences. What resources we will have to engage and what consequences this will have, both positive and negative. In particular, if we are talking about non-conformities, in this case I strongly believe that with minor financial consequences, especially for owners, we can legalise such objects. Of course, we also have facilities that are completely illegally built, where there will simply be no choice and such facilities will have to be demolished. But before we put concrete proposals on the table, I think it is right that we have a cut in the situation, that we know exactly what the situation is in Slovenia. In this direction too, estimates will be made that we know what resources need to be engaged, that we have a clear situation in Slovenia on a cut-off date. I believe that by smart compromise, this section of the situation and further activities are given very correct, fair and clearly defined. From the moment we know what the situation is in Slovenia, we do not deviate from the legislation or for a millimeter more. At the very direction of the former Minister, I must admit that I did not deal with this, especially because I wanted first to have information about the situation in Slovenia, to consult a professional. On this basis, I think we can then make quality and good decisions. Mr jeedan and I, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, have spent several hours together, especially in the field of nature 2000. It is true that we have here in some way accepted commitments on the one hand within the framework of Nature, which binds us to the preservation of the environment. The commitment we have made is very strong. For example, Austria has a 15% coverage of Nature, Slovenia currently 37%. On the other hand, we have commitments to renewable energy, where we have also committed ourselves against the European Union and we have to meet these commitments. I believe that with the Ministry of Agriculture we will find a common path and a compromise that we will be able to implement the projects accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mrs Janja Attack to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel, and the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mags. To dean jedan, who is officially absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Well, hello, all of you! Mr Minister, in view of today's absence of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, I ask you for answers within your working area of the Ministry you run. During last year, Slovenia was once again hit by a natural water catch disaster, which finally blew up and carried it off in the Upper Savinja Valley, which has been investing in the banks for the last 22 years. During this time, we experienced a total of five floods, some three centuries old. There are several causes of damage. We agree, however, that this is probably due mainly to the human factor at local, national and global level. The inhabitants themselves should also be aware that the excessive construction of the train in the forest and its non-maintenance is the cause of the formation of storms. There is an absolute need to limit the construction of forest trains and roads, and I also suggest that irregularities be penalised, not least at the expense of the owner, as well as at the expense of the better forest owners. In 1990, the Zgornjesavinians were assured that the reconstruction of the entire infrastructure would be ensured, i.e. that the rivers with inflows, bridges and roads would be fully regulated within 10 years. What's the situation today? We can say it's catastrophic. Over the course of 22 years, mainly politically directed decisions were taken to regulate Savinja and its tributaries, especially at the regional centre in Celje, although the profession has repeatedly stressed that different receptions are needed. The local causes could therefore be largely eliminated if the political will were fairly present and professionally justified. The damage caused by land, facilities, and aquatic life is huge, and fishermen of the fishing company Ljubno and Mozir, who barely raise any normal fish population in the river, are warning them that the smaller rains are destroying everything they produce. On the information, the College of Upper Saxons has already protested the milky approach to our flood problems, as the true protection of Celje and other places in the Lower Savina Valley is in the upper stream. The state of upstream watercourses is alarming. In relation to this, I ask you: How will you approach the restoration of the environment in the area of the entire Savinja basin, or how will you plan to rehabilitate the river trunks of the outlying zones in the Upper Savina Valley? In the area of the basin in the Upper Savinja Valley in the last year, Savinja has suffered considerable damage to the Savinja coast and has carried more fertile land. How will you approach the problem of the abandonment of remote regions in regulating the most basic regulation of river tributaries? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you for asking. I'm going to tie myself to that part that's under our ministry. I must say that the granting of concessions to small hydroelectric plants is not within the competence of our ministry, but I would certainly like to say at this point that, as regards the exploitation of the potential of our watercourses and hydroelectric power plants, personally, as at the Ministry, I absolutely support this. I believe that hydropower is something that has been left for years and years, for centuries, for our inventors, and therefore I think it makes sense for us to invest in regulating watercourses and investing in hydropower. On the other hand, we have committed ourselves to Europe to invest a certain percentage in renewable energy sources, and this is a commitment that we must respect. Hydropower is one of the key to achieving this. We have concrete projects, concrete preparations, on investments in the lower and mid-Savi at the moment. In the area of small hydropower plants, however, we must note that there may be a slightly greater problem in the search for an investor. But I believe that, even at small hydro power plants, especially because of the commitment to the European Union, these projects can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much for your answer. This is exactly what I wanted to focus on in the complementary issue of hydropower. Indeed, in Slovenia we should pay more attention to renewable sources. The possibility of building small hydro power plants is already considerable, but unfortunately it also hampers, despite difficult processes and listening to the environment. Investors in small hydropower plants have different problems: one is procedures that touch on the acquisition of all necessary permits, and the other is concessions or a permit to attach to the electricity network. In the past, the issue of protection of habitats due to flooding has been addressed in the Savinja river in Celje. And I'm also asking you: How will you approach the acquisition of concessions and permits for access to the electricity network for small hydropower plants in the area of the entire Savinja river, where the concession holder and the country, the local community, would jointly build dams? I am aware of the example of Jerman MHE, the electricity generation from Juvan to Ljubno, when, in all positive opinions on the acquisition of concessions, the procedure stopped in the bureaucracy proceedings of all major authorities and institutions because of certain personal or political interests, when the individual refers to the protection of the habitat which the water has already carried out in seven years of waiting for permission. That's what I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u163	As far as the agreement of the system operator is concerned, in fact the system operator did not reject the agreement, so in this case I believe that this case could be resolved. However, I am aware of the obstacles that Natura 2000 brings, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, where it is necessary to look for ways to put the hydroelectric power plant into space. There are procedures that we claim at the Ministry of Agriculture, on the basis of which facilities can also be placed in areas that are within the framework of Natura 2000. But I believe it would be the right address for these answers, my fellow Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Smodiš will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question concerns the construction of the Pinke-Cirkovce transport remote control. This is a problem which raises a lot of doubts for the long-distance resident, and you are probably aware of the functioning of civil initiatives that strongly oppose this far-off. I am concerned about the degradation of the area that will be followed, the quality of life of the people living in the area and the impact on their health. I am particularly concerned about the impact of the construction of the long-range infrastructure on the development of the different potentials of the region. Here in particular, I have in mind the development of tourism, which is very important for the municipalities, which will be followed by the long-distance route, and the impact of the construction of the long-range on agriculture, which is a very important sector in this part of Slovenia. Also, property in the vicinity of the long-distance route will lose its value. I am not at all opposed to the development or progress that is particularly important in these times of crisis. However, since this is a long-range transport pipeline, I am asking you the following questions. I'd like to ask you to tell me: What are the concrete benefits of building the Pinke-Cirkovec remote control for our country? What will be the immediate benefits for the region and for the congregations that will cross the long - distance route? Is it about building a long-distance project for the interest of Slovenia or for the interests of other countries? I ask you to substantiate: Why are the arguments for the construction of the long-range more powerful than those that oppose the construction of the remotes because of the degradation of the environment and other previously mentioned consequences? Can you, as the competent minister, ensure that the transmission system does not have a negative impact on the health of the people who will be closest to the long-distance route? What is the Ministry's position on the proposal that the transmission cables instead of air take place underground? I am aware that the investment in underground cables would be significantly higher, and maintenance would also be more expensive, but would not have witnessed such environmental degradation as in the case of the current plan for the construction of the remote. Finally, I would like to point out that the municipalities have been forced to take account of the remote control in their municipal spatial plans, as they are based on the State Spatial Plan, and that the lack of acceptance of municipal spatial plans would prevent construction or various investments in remote environments. Thank you kindly for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u166	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you for asking. The remote direction of Pinke-Cirkovce is extremely important for Slovenia and for the Slovenian economy. In fact, at this point it is the only link in the Slovenian energy network that has not actually been established to the Hungarian border. Why is this so important for the Slovenian economy? With so-called cross-border capacities, we have an extraordinary impact on the price of electricity. At the moment, we have a connection with Italy, Croatia and Austria, but we have no connection with Hungary, which would in fact allow us a much greater room for manoeuvre in the trading of electricity alone. In fact, in shaping the electricity price itself, cross-border capacity is one of the important factors in what price the Slovenian economy will actually have. If we had a connection to Hungary at this point, electricity prices and consumption in the region could be significantly cheaper in the country. Therefore, I believe that this part of Slovenia's investment must be made because it will have long-term effects in the Slovenian economy, in particular through the price of electricity. Of course, this also entails the stability of the electricity network and the effects that this investment brings on the local community. In the framework of this project, there is also the optics for telecommunications, which means that the region will be able to access optics, to interconnections and, of course, to benefit the local community. Negative influences. The DPA carried out environmental assessment of planned solutions, namely environmental protection, human health, nature conservation and cultural heritage. On this basis, mitigation measures have been put in place and the project is therefore considered environmentally and health-friendly. With regard to the question of groundwater, I must join the opinion you have already given yourself. In fact, the investment in groundwater itself would increase or undermine the investment 10-15 times. With the increase of the investment itself, there is also a question of technical performance. In fact, the actual implementation of water into the earth is an incomparable increase in losses and an incomparable cost of maintenance. For this reason, we believe that, at this point in time, this country, as an investor, cannot afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Do you still have a supplement? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. We move on to the next question. Mrs Mateja Pučnik will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu, who is absent from 15 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members of the Government! My question is to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Pikalu, and I would like the Minister to answer him orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The question concerns the area of secondary education. Vocational and vocational secondary education has been proven in European countries to enable young people to work. It is with developed education that countries record the least unemployment among young people. The former government has set up a successful policy to promote vocational and vocational secondary education, showing a significant increase in interest and entry into vocational and vocational schools this year. Information on enrolment in secondary schools in Slovenia is known. I want to know: How does the Minister personally assess this year's admission to secondary, vocational and high school schools compared to last year? I also ask: How do you plan to implement other measures to promote vocational and vocational education and make secondary schools even more attractive to students? And as for high school: How will you ensure quality in our high school? And the end: Before the start of the new school year, can we expect to change the Law on High Schools and the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education? In fact, the former government has already made the necessary changes to these laws in preparation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Pučnik, if I understand you correctly, you expect an oral response at the next meeting. In accordance with your request, you will receive at your next meeting the oral reply of Minister Jernej Pikal to your question. The next question will be asked by Mr Mikhael Prevc to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We all know that the situation in the Slovenian health system is worrying, we could say even alarming. Hospitals are in high losses, making it impossible for some to pay their suppliers, waiting periods are, unfortunately, not reduced, health workers are among the most burdened categories of workers, there is more than 100 million holes in the health treasury, and there is a marked lack of general doctors. Therefore, a fundamental, not just cosmetic action in this area, a respected minister, is essential. Otherwise, there may be a drastic decline in the quality of health services that will be felt most by those who are not at fault for the current situation. These are the patients. Dear Mr. Secretary! In your predictions, it is not possible to detect concrete guidelines that would lead to an improvement in the health situation and, above all, its sustainability. So I ask you: What specific content should be regulated by the so-called intervention law, which has been mentioned for some time? When will the fundamental reform of Slovenian health care be on the table? Next question: With what concrete measures will you help the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance reduce the more than 100 millionth hole that is expected for the end of this year? And the last question: What is your position on the merger of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Mutual, as suggested by the initiative of doctors? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u172	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u173	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. I think it is an important question, as well as clarifying some of the points you have put in your question. We need to know that the health situation reflects to a large extent the situation in Slovenia, in particular the situation in the Slovenian economy. Since the start of the crisis, it has been said, somewhere since 2008, especially since 2009, that the overall economic situation has also decreased, the amount of funds has been poured into the health treasury. In fact, in the last few years, health care has lost about 300 million by the end of last year to the cost of health services in particular, and we have now reached a point where the reduction in the price of services in this way can no longer be managed by the health system. Although data for last year have not yet been catastrophic, the situation and further price cuts this year are indeed worrying and require intervention measures. Maybe for an illustration. Last year alone, for example, €2.3 billion from compulsory health insurance, loss and hospitals and health homes were below €15 million, which is of course not an uncontrollable number. It is true, however, that the cumulative loss is increasing and that there are already around 93, 94 million Euros. As a result of this year's measures, the reason why we started to mention the intervention law in fact in this government is also the reason. During last year, several measures were presented in the ZUJF, reducing health treasury expenditure by over 100 million at the annual level and, in the event of a deterioration in the forecast and in fact, also to the realization of what Umar had predicted, the deficit in the health treasury was again greater and transferred to operators. That's why the intervention law. We coordinate the intervention law with the Ministry of Finance, given that the starting point of this law relates mainly to the contributions of all of us who pay into the health treasury from various addresses. The findings, which have long been known, are that the different categories of inhabitants are very different. Of course, the idea that contributions are accounted for also some other revenue to extend the contribution bases, to bring them closer also in terms of equating the contribution bases according to the different categories of people who on the one hand benefit from the same health rights and on the other hand pay very different payments to the health treasury. The intervention law applies essentially only to this part of the contributions for an acute resolution of the situation. Like maybe another question, because I'm running out of time. You mentioned the Department of Health Insurance and more than 100 million holes. She's not really here. This is a claim that is not true, because it is precisely to ensure that the Health Insurance Office operates without loss, as foreseen in its financial plan and also adopted at the level of the government, that all this burden is essentially passed on in terms of lowering the prices of health services to operators. That is why there are operators in the crisis, not a health treasury which has an expected end-of-the-year deficit. Otherwise, if there were no measures, this deficit would be around €90 million. But not in this case. The Stability Pact is one that prevents the indebtedness of the health register and from this address, I think, unfortunately this burden of saving must be borne by the operators. Maybe just for a little while about the insurance. Of course, it would be very easy if the Rent or Money that comes from the Mutual could join other health insurance or compulsory health insurance, which is not possible, because of the ownership structure and many other solutions. However, the purpose of the reorganisation or adoption of a new Health and Health Insurance Act is to control the profits and prices and also the operating costs of these insurance undertakings offering supplementary health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. I'm gonna set him up. Ms Katarina Hočevar to Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mag. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! We are in Slovenia and are still facing the problem of setting up businesses after the former is left in debt. In many cases, unfortunately, we can also talk about the planned exhaustion of businesses, and then this will close and create a new one. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What measures are you planning in this area? How will the government deal with this issue? The insolvency legislation adopted by the Government last Thursday gives hope to ensure better conditions, faster repayment of creditors and the preservation of healthy cores of the economy. Of course, it is also natural for businesses to fail, cease their activities in business circles, and in Slovenia we also have some successful entrepreneurs who have lost their previous business. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: How do you see the creation of a business environment, where you can distinguish between the so-called natural movement in the enterprise sector, when you play the system or avoid chaining businesses? What measures do you have in mind not to interfere on the one hand with the free market and the creation and withdrawal of businesses, but on the other hand, do we limit the exploitation of those who chain businesses and avoid one or the other payment? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. With this legislation, even if you want to do very well, you always find those who try to bypass it. So we also tried to do a good job in the National Assembly and the proponents, let's say that espam would make it easier for work to pay those 14% of the tax instead. 49% of these taxes and contributions, like d.o. Unfortunately today we are listening to how it was born, that you then have in certain hairdressing salons and elsewhere, say, espaing for a chair, for an individual, I don't know what. That's what's born. In any case, there are some who want to go around the law. That's also a big problem. There was an even bigger problem years ago, such as when companies set up a new one, but in fact they left the workers on the road without all discharges. It also depends on the values that people have. Some of us, for example, have been in this program since 1990. Well, you also looked at the employees and the employees got what they were good at. Some, however, played this and simply left people on the road, especially those who set up various companies. They simply sold the goods, closed the company, opened the new company, re-sold the goods for trade, and left all suppliers behind. Then the court had no tool to seek it back to its roots, such as, say, Germany. When you've taken over something private, and if you've changed the company five times, the court should have some kind of tool to find it, to really go all the way back to the roots and then also sanction the owners. A lot of these things are regulated in our legislation, but I don't think we're using them. In particular, institutions which are in the Company Act, namely the ZGD-1, begin to make the most of practical use of stakeholders to become aware of the opportunities offered by positive legislation, since the case law in this area is very modest or practically non-existent. One such institution is, for example, Article 8 of the ZGD-1, which regulates the review of a legal person and provides that its shareholders are also responsible for the obligations of the company if they misused the company as a legal person to achieve the objective of being prohibited as an individual; if they misused the company as a legal person to harm their or their creditors; if they treated the company's property as a legal person, as their own property, or if they had reduced the company's assets for the benefit of another person, even though they knew whether they should have known that they would not be able to reconcile their obligations to third parties. Disputes involving a legal person, for example, are considered as a priority by the court, and we do not use it. Just as we don't use ourselves, let's say we prosecute those who are in the control councils because it's somehow been abandoned in recent years. In addition, for example, Article 503 provides that in a company with limited liability a member may lodge an action on his own behalf and on behalf of a company against a shareholder who has failed to fulfil the duties of a member in the establishment or management of a company. The company may also bring an action against a manager who has failed to fulfil his duties in relation to the management of the company. From the practice I know, I know that sometimes only someone can use it, but then the court doesn't have enough evidence to take action against it. It is said that some submarital acts down there are not sufficiently cleared. Pursuant to Article 442 of the Financial Transactions Act, in insolvency proceedings and forcible termination proceedings, the removal from the Registry does not affect the right of the creditor of the deleted legal person. That is to say, where the payment of his claim to that legal person is required from personally responsible shareholders or from other shareholders on the basis of the rules on the transparency of a legal person or where it requires the recovery of damage from members of the management or control bodies of the deleted legal person. Then we have, for example, the Law on the Court Register, that I will not list, and we also have some such provisions that we could use, but no, let's say that there is no other capital company involved with more than 25%. And we have, for example, a meaningful similar provision of the GDD-1 for entrepreneurs of individuals who, in the second paragraph of Article 74, provides that an entrepreneur must make a statement that there are no outstanding prior business obligations. So much for now, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u178	Mrs. Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you, Minister, for that part of the answer. If anything, then we can rediscover: a lot of rules and standards, but in practice the matter does not work, unfortunately. Companies themselves have been warning for years that it is the chain of undertakings that is the biggest problem with the liquidity picture of the Slovenian economy, as well as with payment discipline. Perhaps smaller companies or individuals are somehow unable to serve all the marriage grounds that you have clearly said are available. So, if I have understood you correctly, you are assessing that there is no need to amend the Company Act, but that it is only necessary to raise awareness or educate entrepreneurs and individuals in order to serve the legal standards already adopted. Thank you for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u181	It's actually true. For example, when setting up a company today, the applicant shall make his own declaration that he has paid taxes and contributions. But here we could only introduce, but only on an administrative level, to electronically link this register to Durs and then give Durs back information whether he can set up such a company or not. Otherwise, you have to find out again whether this statement is true or not. This is, for example, one such contribution that could be made in addition to such a problem when it comes to hiding some when they chain businesses and then leaving behind suppliers, employees, and ultimately the country, because taxes and contributions are not paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah, question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mags. A Jew who's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u183	Dear President, Minister, colleague and colleague! Slovenia has very few agricultural land to produce food per capita. In the last year, there have been many activities in the protection of agricultural land just prior to construction. A refund was reintroduced for the conversion of agricultural land to buildings. Unfortunately, it was only after ten years when the best agricultural land was built, especially for large trading centres. However, in these ten years we have lost several times as many agricultural land as we grow. Most farms specialize in cattle, meat and milk. The competitiveness of the farms was maintained by renting the best agricultural land of the smaller farmers who had abandoned farming. This is how smaller farms, especially in an area with limited farming factors, fail. Farming on such farms does not allow for survival, so young people leave and older farmers are limited to farming for their own supply and the rest of farm land is growing in most cases. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and Environment Mag. I'm asking Diana jedan: What concrete measures will be taken to maintain smaller farms in the field of limited farming factors? What measures will be taken to address agricultural land growth and consequently to increase self-sustainment? In view of the absence of the Minister, I would like to request an oral reply at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your proposal. You will receive a oral response at the next meeting. He also has a question for the absent Magi. The Jew Franz Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! I hope that I will have an answer to my question to the Minister, although he is absent from the fact that there will be no unusual situation, as with his colleague, Hočevar, who asks the question, he gets three additional questions from the competent minister. I hope this institute is somehow more respected. Now to my next question for the minister. The worst natural disaster in the Slovenian space in the last 100 years has not been the flood or earthquakes, but the earth’s reptiles. The reptiles threaten more than a quarter of Slovenian territory. The most dangerous are the beaches for 400,000 inhabitants, mainly in the northeastern part of Slovenia. In the last 20 years, the Geological Survey of Slovenia has launched 6,000 500 reptiles. I come from the areas of the Slovenian Mountains myself. After this unusually long winter, after unusually long rainfall, after this abundant rain that came with this winter, we could also say in part this winter, at least in my places, that it was a partial natural disaster. In Slovenian Gorica, in the northeastern part of Slovenia, a number of reptiles started. Above all, it is worrying that they have launched themselves in areas that have so far been considered stable areas, not in unstable areas, with some of the reptiles that are emerging, but in extremely stable areas. So only in Lenart we detected 24 beaches, in the municipality of Council Ana 6, Council of Trojica 6, in the municipality of Cerkvenjak 8 beaches, in Benedict Circus 6 beaches. In addition to these, about 50 beaches, many of those beaches have been detected, which are on agricultural land causing incredible damage to farmers and vineyards, which are still important for Slovenian mountains because they give some additional economic weight to Slovenian Gorica. All these beaches have been described, sent to a number of ministries, but so far neither the mayors nor the citizens have received any concrete answers. I therefore ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and the Environment: How did the ministry predict the dynamics of beach rehabilitation resulting from the long winter? When will it join the rehabilitation of beaches in northeastern Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, I would also require an oral response from a minister who is not present today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, you will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Ms Irena Tavčar has a question for two ministers, or Minister and Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak and Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament! Migration is a global phenomenon facing all countries in the world. Migration presents a challenge for every country, for example, some face the problem of migration and interculturality and other issues that arise in this regard, while some face the problem of brain drain and migration. One of the major challenges facing the European Union and Slovenia as a part of it is the resolution of illegal migration and the security aspect. This is important in order to avoid creating greater internal tensions. There are many reasons for migration, and each migrant has its own reason for moving. The most common is a desire for a better life. This tendency leads to the search for solutions, including the choice of life in a country far from home country. It is the right to freedom of movement for each individual, but it also has certain limitations. The above raises the question of the abuse of legal institutions linked to migration. On behalf of individual citizens and citizens, I was informed of the citizens of the Republic of China who are residing in abandoned houses in the Upper Gorenja region, which raises doubts about the legality of their stay in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the example described, I ask: How many work permits have been issued for citizens of the People’s Republic of China in the Republic of Slovenia in the last 10 years? In view of the inseparability of obtaining a work permit with a residence permit, at the same time, I ask you for information: How many residence permits have been issued for these citizens in the Republic of Slovenia for the last 10 years, separately: due to employment or work and family reunification? I also want to know: How many cases of abuse of legal institutions for the purpose of illegal migration have the police dealt with over a period of 10 years and how many complaints have been filed? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer first? Dr. Digger of the Dark Ones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, thank you for the question, Member. The Ministry’s responsibility is primarily to provide you with an answer regarding the work permits issued and valid, since this is covered by the Employment and Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia and the institution actually maintains this record from 1. 1. 2005. So if we look at the whole period of 1. 1. 2005 to 31. On 3 this year, in the Republic of Slovenia, a total of 3 000 170 work permits were issued to citizens of the People's Republic of China; at the end of March 2013, 342 nationals of the People's Republic of China had a valid work permit. According to data, citizens who have this work permit work in Slovenia are mainly employed in a restaurant, for example as cooks and waiters in traditional Chinese restaurants or in other service activities such as traditional Chinese massages. We have here in fact – if you would like a review of the work permits issued and valid from 2005 to 2013. If only I could provide any of the data, first of all for work permits, it can be seen that there have been 282 since 2005, for example, 42 personal work permits, 183 of which have been authorised to work. If we look at the data for 2012 in the same category, there are 373, the personal work permits are 25, so the number has dropped and the number has decreased – 310 and the work permits are 38, which is less. This data shows that it is not a significant increase that would give us some indications that something significantly different is happening during this period, so that from the point of view of these work permits, these are the data that I can provide to you. But I don't know what else I can say on behalf of a colleague, or he'll probably be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u190	Dr. Virant will probably give his own answer. Here you go, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you. This criminal law aspect and the aspect of the offences. Over the past 10 years, the police have accused 27 perpetrators, Chinese citizens, of crimes related to the abuse of institutions of temporary residence and visa permits. Recently, however, there has been a greater increase in the abuse of these institutions, in general an increase in illegal residence in Slovenia, mainly on the basis of fictitious employment in straw companies. In such cases there is a violation of the rights of these illegal migrants, in particular of the rights of the labour relationship, because they work in black, they do not have the right to work, nor do they have the normal payment, nor do they have the right to rest, nor do they have the right to work, nor do they have the right to work, nor do they have the right to work, nor do they have the right to work. Although a small proportion of these are from China. The biggest problem is the citizens of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia, Serbia and Slovakia. It is true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently informed us that at the Slovenian Embassy in Beijing there has been a higher demand from the administrative units of Slovenia for assistance in interviews with Chinese citizens with applicants for the first residence permit in Slovenia for reasons of work or employment. The police also note that Chinese citizens, i.e. indications, have that Chinese nationals who already have acquired Slovenian citizenship are establishing companies through which Chinese nationals legally come to Slovenia, workers, and there are indications of abuses of the first residence permit on the basis of employment, in certain cases there are grounds for suspecting that there are abuses of labour law and fundamental rights under Article 196 of the KZ, and even for the suspicion of crimes of trafficking in human beings under Article 113 of the Penal Code. The police are working hard on these cases, and whatever you see in this regard, please report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the questions. Mr Ivan Grill has a question for Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary, Madam Vice President! My parliamentary question concerns the supply of the Slovenian medicines market. As we could see in March, the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices at the subsidiary of Lekarna Ljubljana Grosist banned drug trafficking on the basis of internal professional supervision and as informally available due to the insufficient supply or insufficient quantity of medicines needed by the Slovenian market. On the basis of the complaint, we could then soon find that the Ministry of Health repealed this decision, and also on the basis of the statements made by this company, a wholesaler of medicines, observed that this decision was repealed on the basis of a lack of legislation or some irregularities to which you then referred and revoked this decision at the Ministry. I want to know: What were these actual irregularities that were to be committed by the so-called Public Medicines and Medical Devices Agency? How can we continue to prevent this from happening? For there is no doubt that political interest may have been in the background here, perhaps political pressure on the ministry by the Ljubljana congregation. Last but not least, in the past, we have been able to find that the funds, which Lekarna Ljubljana and, as a result, probably also a Grossist – this is a lot of money – are poured into the budget of the Ljubljana Municipality and then – also on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors – are being used for completely different purposes than to return to the health system. This is unacceptable and I'm interested in: Why was this decision repealed by the Ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u194	Here you go, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you for asking. In the introduction, I would first say that there were no policy-level agreements between the congregation or between pharmacies themselves on the subject. I am aware of the sensitivity of the issue, and I was also aware in advance of the possibility of such perceptions, which is why I just wanted in particular – because this was more or less about a legal explanation than purely professional, medically, if I may say so. Grossist is just one of the bigogeists who provides medicines to health care institutions and pharmacies and everything else. Here we need to know that none of the velodrogerists at any time have the full range of all the possible medicines that are on the market and that someone should have, including the rarest. I wouldn't go down for reasons why the General Hospital of Jesenice reported exactly LL Grossist, but not maybe some other velodrogerist with whom she was also dealing during that period. The fact is that the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has issued this Decision, this is a decision prohibiting the traffic in medicinal products and that LL Grossist, on the other hand, has reached legal options available to him under the law, two. One was a request for annulment of the decision as an exceptional remedy and the other was simply a complaint to the decision. The Ministry of Health resolved this by priority – that this is a legal opinion. First of all, it was necessary to consider an exceptional remedy, a request for annulment of the decision. This request found that a decision of the Public Medicines Agency and medical devices had been taken to establish a substantial breach of material law, in the heading relating to Article 74, paragraph 6, of the Medicinal Products Act, where, according to our legal service, they went by interpreting the definition of adequate short time to provide medicines across that limit which could still be defended in accordance with the law. In fact, this is one area that is somewhat misplaced and which we, by the way, have also been aware of, and also in the new drug law that has already been under public treatment, we are also trying to resolve, that is, which period is that someone owes this medicine in fact. This was the only reason why we could explicitly deny the decision of the Public Medicines Agency, which is actually undefined. What is the shortest possible time depends on the circumstances, including the type of medicine you need to provide. It is said that this is influenced by several circumstances and according to the material examined, the opinion of the Ministry of Health’s legal service was that this material law has actually been violated. That is why such a decision has also been taken. Otherwise, of course, we were also aware of the possibilities of various responsibilities, especially compensation, which could occur if the matter is not fully clear and we can defend it without any doubt. We are talking here about substantial means of banning the traffic of an enterprise such as LL Grossist.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u196	Would you like a supplement, Mr. Grill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u197	The fact is also confirmed here: five lawyers, six or seven different opinions. It seems strange to me, since they probably also have lawyers at the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, who also need to know the legislation, to interpret it properly and that this was then a completely different thinking than it was then determined or decided at the Ministry of Health itself. I also share the view that perhaps the time it takes to obtain a particular medicinal product or to refer it to operators may be more a professional question than a legal one. I hope this will be resolved in this law, which you are now referring to. I'd still like to ask you a further question: What exactly is the status of this LL Grossist? We know that in recent months or years opinions have been drawn here, and also many lawyers and experts in this area are of the opinion that there is no legal basis that Lekarna Ljubljana can even establish this wholesaler to have a wholesaler. We know this thing still exists. Here are a number of dilemmas, including public concerns that are justified, and it would be right to make this definitive; either to enable others to do so, or to make it impossible and not least to sanction them. Because, such legal voids and inconsistencies as in this area, I do not think it is in favour of Slovenian health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u198	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u199	I agree that the issue needs to be addressed. We were also trying to define it. In fact, we are in the Draft Law on Pharmacy Activities, where public treatment is concluded and where we are, in principle, against the vertical connection of pharmacies with critters. However, I believe that this issue will still be an issue and that there will be a lot of debate on this issue. But my personal opinion is in this law that I do not think such a relationship makes sense. This is also a position somewhere, and the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which is not in any way in favour of such a connection, also speaks for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mag. Stefan Tessel is also a question for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u201	Nice greetings to all present. Madam Vice-President, honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! My question to Minister Tomaž Gantar concerns the award of health concessions. In Slovenia, we are still proud to have good health care or at a relatively high level and that our health system is socially oriented, based on a high level of solidarity. The public health network consists of public institutions and individual concessionaires carrying out health activities under contract with the Health Insurance and Insurance Office of supplementary health insurance. But there are also self-payment services that are not in the public health system. About 20 years ago, concessions began to be awarded to individuals in health care, and so today we have the most concessions in dental care, in my opinion over three quarters, then in basic health care, about half or a good half, and at the secondary level, concessions were initially awarded in such a way that the programmes were taken away from the public service and the money went with the concessionaire. But in recent years, as we know, concessions are a rarer matter, or they are more rarely allocated to a new one. This has been the case since the time of the government of Borut Pahor and in the past year, during the time of the government of Janez Janša, when you were already Minister of Health. I ask, Mr. Minister: What is the position of the new government regarding the granting of health concessions? For illustration as well as: Which and how many concessions have been awarded in the past year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you, too, for that question. Today I would hardly talk about the Government's position on these concessions, but I can say my position, nor is this defined in our cooperation agreement. I think that it is basically clear that this government, like the previous government, is taking part in public health, is qualitative, on the basis of some solidarity, also in the payment of contributions. The scope of the concessions is governed by the Health Activity Act, which may be too precise in terms of wishes, and ultimately the need for these concessions, which only occurs in recent years. Here, on the one hand, it was resolved according to the possibilities and, on the other hand, according to the purely specific needs. If I go first to the needs of what was decisive, which we also took into account last year. One was the provision for a specific area where the concession was proposed, but within this area, and the other was, of course, waiting periods in this activity where the concession was proposed. That was on one side. On the other hand, there are possibilities, as I mentioned earlier, which means, above all, the possibility of financing a new concession. In recent years these have not really been very much, probably for a simple reason, because the health department is always more or less in trouble and the easy money available for the new programmes has been no longer or less. That is why, in the previous term, with the exception of a few concessions, I think we have given three entirely new concessions following the adoption of a general agreement, where we have provided from 2 billion 300 million for the dissemination of programmes or new concessions where this is necessary. An additional reason why we have decided to do so and this money is that this year's implementation of the Directive on the free movement of patients, where there was a desire to allow for a slight reduction in waiting periods, and, on the other hand, through a general agreement, we have ensured that, by reducing acute treatments and increasing the proportion of daily hospital treatments, we also provide additional funds for hospitals to increase specialist outpatient programmes. This was, as I say, to a very small extent also realized last year. Of course, we have taken into account the urgent consensus of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which at the end of such a programme, and we have consistently not once intervened in the award of a concession to the public health institution, according to the withdrawal of the programme from any public health institution. An exception could be at the primary level if an agreement was reached between the concessionaire and the health centre, where we are only in the role of co-legislator and the actual award of the concession was made by the local community or municipality. Once again, I think we gave them three last year and also made some enlargements. However, under this amount, which was reserved for this purpose, it was not fully exploited.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u204	Here you go. You're still on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You yourself have mentioned that it will be necessary to supplement or finalize the Health Act as well as the Law on Tax Protection and Health Insurance on this subject. We know, at least at the basic level and in remote places, that by some form of concession they would certainly be able to access the health network or doctors at the basic level and dentists. Maybe just for an illustration, I'd like to ask you the following. It was heard that they could already go to CT – on the other hand, we heard that there are already too many of these appliances in Slovenia, over 20 — and that somewhere already the insurance company pays that the patient went instead of Isolo to Trieste and that this was paid. We know that this will be possible from October onwards if the price is appropriate or lower or settles. That's why I'd like to ask: When do you suppose that a supplement to the Health Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act could be adopted in Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you. Maybe so much to explain. We also set criteria, however, in the same direction as European legislation allows us. This means that we can set a certain limit where services are linked to expensive equipment, expensive appliances. Undoubtedly, it's a matter of, say, magnetic resonance checks, including CT scans. These measures will be proposed and adopted in order to be timely within the framework of the intervention law, which we are preparing now also to improve this financial situation in which we are, and this is part of this law, which will also be under consideration in May.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone will ask the absent Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! About a month ago, one of the most successful weekends for Slovenian skiers began with a game of individuals at the mountain resort. In three matches the Slovenians won two victories and two more medals for the winners. The event was more than successful after the organizational salary, as more than 54,000 visitors visited the valley under Poncemi according to the organizers' data within four days. In addition to the competition, the infrastructure breakthrough also contributes to the beautiful image of the snow queen. With more than €40 million, mostly European money, Slovenia receives one of the state-of-the-art Nordic centres. In October 2012 it was already a solemn opening of the renovated Bloudkova and the neighboring jumper. At that time, the presence of three sports ministers indicated that a broad political consensus was reached on the Nordic centre of Planica project in addition to the high level of social consensus. I hope that unity will help to complete the project as soon as possible and successfully run for the Nordic World Ski Championship. At its meeting on Thursday, the Government agreed to submit a nomination for the organisation of the event in 2019 and in this way confirmed its commitment to the completion of the project as soon as possible. In the light of the above, I ask the Minister: How does the new Minister of Sport plan the dynamics of building the Nordic Centre in Planica also in the light of the Nordic World Cup nomination in 2019? I ask the Minister to answer my oral question at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer orally. Now we are moving on to a second round of questions, namely Mr Janez Ribič, and the question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mags. Dejana jedan, who is also absent, but still, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the problem of floods and reptiles is so wide and the real nightmare is quite a few for the people of northeastern Slovenia, I will start with questions. I would like to ask the Minister for the answers at the next meeting, where I can ask additional questions. I'll ask the questions first, then, as long as there's time, I'll explain. Has the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment already provided the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology with a complete role for the allocation of cohesion funds for the construction of the Vurberk-Zgornji Duplek anti-floating embankment and when are the start and conclusion of the said investment envisaged? Second question: When will the municipalities receive state funding to address the effects of the floods in November 2012 and to regulate floodwaters? Question three: How will the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment undertake systematic management of the rehabilitation of small and medium-sized beaches, and how will local communities be involved, is the municipality so called? In addition to dealing with the consequences of last year's floods, the Duplek municipality was affected by the large amount of rainfall in late winter by earth’s beaches, which have already begun to seriously endanger certain residential facilities as well as local infrastructure. Given the general awareness that the beaches should be considered in terms of causing damage and the risk of further crawling, not only in terms of the current damage, the majority of the beaches launched in the past month in north-east Slovenia did not even begin the damage assessment process. The damage caused by the floods, despite the promised State aid and the decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 21. 11. 2012 and 7. 3. In 2013, the municipalities received virtually no means to begin to remedy the damage caused by the flood, nor any information concerning the recovery of floodwaters and associated resources. In the past term, I have highlighted several times the importance of the construction of high-water embankments on the left bank of Drava between Maribor and Ptvo, which would ensure the flood safety of the people of Duple and the surrounding areas. For the construction of this embankment has been delayed for decades and more. How underestimating the state’s attitude towards this problem was all over last November when the Duplek Congregation was hit by the worst floods in recent decades, which are only in the congregation [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u212	You had four and a half million euros worth of damage to be added at the end. In the beginning, however, you have already pointed out that you would like an oral response to the next meeting. The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak with a question for Minister of Defence, absent Mr Roman Jakić.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u213	Dear Vice President! I would also like to have, given that the Minister of Defence is absent, the answer to my question raised at the forthcoming meeting of the National Assembly. Allow me, however, to present my question now. Dear Secretary of Defense! Your predecessor, Mr Hojs, has decided, among many excellent measures in the time of the government, Janez Janša, to transfer the work of smaller regional centres at night to larger regional information centres. In this regard, it has repeatedly argued to the members of the Defence Committee of the National Assembly that the response time of the intervention teams has not been extended and that the professional work of the operatives has not been reduced. Unfortunately, those arguments were not heard and repeatedly pointed out that such a way of working regional centres was unacceptable by the opposition members, in particular from the members of the Positive Slovenia Group. Let me remind you, the Centre for Information of the Republic of Slovenia is organised in the Department of Protection and Rescue and 13 regional information centres are organized within the framework of the Defence Exhibitions. We have even proposed coalition MPs and Members to reduce the number of regional centres in order to ensure better technical equipment for the centres, as well as higher staff expertise. Dear Minister, given that you have been well acquainted with the work of the Ministry's internal organisational units – at least in the media – with the work of the Ministry's internal organizational units, I hope that the authorities in the Ministry's composition, please answer me the following question: Do you intend to return the organisation of regional information centres to the organisational structure before the time of Mr Hojs's ministry? At least: Have you, perhaps, ordered an analysis of the functioning of the regional information centres following the establishment of the new organisation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs Ramshak. The Minister will answer orally at the next meeting. Now it's kind of Andrey Chush. The question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Sam Omerzel is also absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you, again, for your word. Otherwise, Mr Ribič has already spoken about this today, but given that the project or the issue mentioned can be mentioned and considered a national disgrace, it seems more than worth talking about at all times. I would like to begin by saying that the inhabitants of the lower Podravje think the country is standing. Why? Since all basic infrastructure projects in the field of basic infrastructure have already been in place for more than 10 years. He would have pointed out here 10 years ago the construction of a fast road Ptuj-Ormož, where all the documents are already ready, but on them is collected dust. The second is the problematic regional road Ptuj–Jurišnica–Gornja Radgona, which runs through Podvinc, where, according to my assessment, a good kilometer of the envisaged 16. So the infrastructure situation in the lower Podravje is a catastrophic problem, the biggest problem, if not a national disgrace, is the motorway section Drazenci-Gruškovje. That is why I am asking Mr Omerzel the next question. The Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section was adopted in September 2010. The current regional road is heavily burdened and is also not adequately secured by security. I want to know: What is the specific time frame of activity because the situation in the lower Podravje is terrible? I would just like to continue the debate here, as previously said. For example, tourists come or we come from Croatia back to Slovenia; there is a nice table Welcome to the European Union, but this is the only thing that reminds us to come to the European Union, because such infrastructure does not belong to the 21st century, and especially not to a European Union. I also call on and appeal to the competent minister at this point to place a limited issue on the resolution agenda as soon as possible and to resolve these problems. Otherwise, I am joining Mr Ribič's invitation to the Minister to come to the lower Podravje once, and we will show him in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat has a question for the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, thank you for coming and saving the honor of the Council of Ministers! On the subject of NGOs, for the first time in this mandate, I am asking you a question, in some previous term, that I have asked you three questions on this subject. This time, however, I received an initiative on 8 April 2013 when a meeting of the children's Parliament took place in this Chamber. You have this experience, this year's Parliament has been running on the subject of growing up, and I think that young people have told us a lot about what they expect from society and how they imagine active dialogue, which, among other things, NGOs are responsible. I draw direct attention to this issue from the statement by the President of the Youth Friends Alliance that this organisation will virtually lose its resources and that such a project, such as the Children's Parliament, is at risk if something does not change. I'm asking you: How much funding is available for the operation of NGOs in the 2013 and 2014 national budget? Will austerity measures also show the cutting of funds in this sector? I recall your satisfaction at how successful Slovenia has been in drawing on European funds in this current financial perspective, and I think that 99% have been drawn from what has been intended, and we have been practically the only country that has given it its priority. I want to know: In the next financial perspective, will there also be any funding for this? Above all, the participation of the State is very important because it is known that the State or non-governmental organisations themselves must participate, if they want to draw funds, from 15% to 40%. So the state also needs to know that if you want something, you have to make a small contribution yourself. It seems to me that all NGOs are not in the same position. The number of NGOs is increasing and, as a rule, the quota allocated to NGOs remains the same. For this reason, many NGOs have failed not only for one year but for several years in a series of calls. This may jeopardise their functioning and the diversity of the forms of action of NGOs, so I ask you this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will not be able to give you a fully-integrated response due to the fact that funding for NGOs is very dispersed under the state budget. For example, funds for organising events such as the Children's Parliament are part of the budget of the Ministry of Education. I have tried to get these horizontal data to compile all the items from different ministries and see how much we are spending on NGOs at all, and we should take some time to do so. If that's what you want, we can do it. However, we went to look carefully at the positions at the Ministry of the Interior and Public Administration, which supports the functioning of NGOs in a horizontal sense, i.e., in terms of strengthening their infrastructure, their capacity, regardless of what they receive from each sector. Under the headings of the MNZ, funds for the development of non-governmental organisations are provided on three items, namely cooperation with non-governmental organisations, promotion of the development of NGOs and civil dialogue, European funds and Slovenian participation. The total amount of resources for 2013 is 2 million 600 000 and some, with an additional 255,000 700 and several euros available this year, of which 120 thousand are the integrated budget and 135 thousand for the implementation of projects co-financed by the European Union. The 2014 budget adopted is lower, with these items amounting to just over a million and a half, available for another 198 thousand integral resources. For projects co-financed by European funds, additional funding of €135,000 will be required for the co-financing contracts already concluded. Of these, 114 000 European and 20,000 Slovenian participation funds. The Ministry will endeavour to ensure that the amount of these budget lines will not be affected by the fact that already at the time of the 2012 budget rebalancing, the budget adopted has been reduced by more than 60% on these items. So, what is the total amount available for the 2013-2014 State budget for the operation of NGOs, this is across all resources? This information cannot be obtained without a detailed analysis requiring additional surveys or an analysis of questionnaires. The Ministry of Finance system does not allow simply "a click" to receive all the funds available to NGOs. Can we also count on the new financial perspective 2013-2020? Yes, you can. In the light of the European Commission's legislative proposals governing future cohesion policy, the proposal for a starting strategy for the development of Slovenia 2014-2020, and on the basis of the first meetings held with representatives of the European Commission, we estimate that Slovenia can count on European funds to strengthen the development of NGOs. The Ministry has already prepared a comprehensive proposal for investment measures containing measures to strengthen employment and professionalisation in non-governmental organisations, strengthen the support environment, promote the transparent and responsible functioning of NGOs. In the coming months, there will be a proposal for coordination with both non-governmental organisations and with the competent authorities to develop these programming documents, which is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Ministry will seek to develop measures that will strengthen the support environment for the functioning of NGOs, as well as to enable NGOs to implement different projects within the budgets of all departments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr Minister, also for having publicly confirmed that I was not reckless in preparing the issue, so I said voluntarily that the amount of funds is not changing because I could not really prove what it was like to move funds. It would be good if we could get more accurate data, because even self-sustaining researchers can't do it free of charge, for research purposes, to get this data at the Apples, so it would be good for at least someone in the country to have it. For example, I have now traced the data that over 3,000 cultural societies, now I am talking about this sector for culture, 324 gives the country what resources. It is a one-year project mainly, it can take longer, but it is not just a culture, it is all different NGOs, and these do not warn that they are on the verge of survival. The fact is that it is more than a third of what I draw from your answers in the past, more than a third of the funding for NGOs is from these public funds, not like elsewhere in other countries, so it is all the more important that we monitor the amount of funds that the state or local communities give. What seems particularly important to me in this matter is that not all NGOs are in the same position. Some also have other stable sources of funding, such as disability and humanitarian organisations from the Slovenian Lottery, which of Slovenia's largest civil society – to think of the RCC, is understandable. But others do not have this, so it would be good to provide more stable resources, because also local communities allow some NGOs to use the premises free of charge, and others do not. The situation is uneven among them, so it would be good to have such an examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Actually, more of a comment if you want Dr. Virant or not? That won't be necessary. With this, we have exhausted all questions from Members and Members for today. We interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 24 April 2013, when the National Assembly will also decide on the proposed decisions as part of the vote. This also interrupts the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. We'll resume tomorrow at nine o'clock.
