ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am informed that the report of the parental committee on today's agenda has been prepared. We're still waiting for the president's signature. I estimate that this will happen within 15 minutes, so I'll postpone the start of today's session to 2.20 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Melita Župevc, Mr Franc Jurša, Dr László Göncz, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Branko Smodiš, Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Franz Bogovic, Mr Ivan Simčič, Mr Bojan Starman and Mr Jožef Horvat. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 31 May 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. Before we move to a decision, I suggest you check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that's an evocative proposition of a judgment-based conclusion. The proposal for a decision was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u3	Thank you very much. To begin with, I regret having only 15 minutes of time, although it was usually not the custom, but at the same time I can say that this request was made on 24 May – a long time ago – and that our primary objective is to improve the situation in justice. We have come from the fact that the worst thing to do is to stop being accused in any way, but that it would be right to adopt the joint conclusions that we have proposed. Unfortunately, they've been changed a lot. I think that today the situation of those who are assessed in politics and who are talking about justice and even in the profession is quite different than it was years ago. If we have seen in 2010 that the entire left-wing political option advocated that the situation in the judiciary was good, that the then minister was defending the situation as well, the situation today is quite different. If we leave behind our statement, statements by opposition Members, we are convinced by the Minister's statements, which is extremely critical of justice. I will not list his latest statements, which were given, but I will use Dr. Lukšič's statement, which in a few years, in two and a half years has undergone a transformation. At the time, he was defending the judiciary, and today he is talking about the fact that the judiciary has fallen asleep, that it does not have the right priorities, and that it behaves as if it were living in an orderly society without crime. None of us can deny Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič's authority. He has recently made quite a number of critical statements about the state of justice. When he spoke, say, about Mr Masleša, he said, "When the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Maslesha, explains that the judiciary is in good condition, I wonder which planet he lives on." He also said that the university of law is the source of the problem. He says, "I know about specific cases of people who were retarded and made a law school because no one asked them how many are two and two." Mr Zupančič further made it very clear that today's judiciary, today's justice, is a burden and is the heir to the communist burden of the past. It is even possible to agree with that. Mr Jaklič also performed a lot. By the way, the media said that Mr. Jaklič, a lawyer, acts as if it were a lawyer at a bakery in Upper Duplek. But it's a double doctor of science, professor at Harvard. He said: "Over the years of my study abroad and studying similar legal systems, I have looked at the hundreds of measures taken by countries to put their legal state in order. There is no such thing in Slovenia." Even newer cases exist, but time does not allow it. At the same time, it is important to draw attention to the statements made by both Mr Fisher and Mr Masles. These statements speak of the fact that the situation in the judiciary is good, that there are major problems not that statistics are improving, etc. We can see that, on the one hand, we have a majority of the policies, on the other hand, of the professions, which are very clear that the situation in justice is not right. On the other hand, we have two supreme representatives of the judiciary who claim that everything is fine. More than that, Dr. Fisher says, "Even if the mistake was made..." – in the case of Mr Furlan – "... sanctions are not envisaged." This is an extremely large gap between what these gentlemen are saying and what the actual situation is. Let me draw your attention to the European Commission, which is 27. 3. 2013 made recommendations to Slovenia or assessed the state of justice in the European Union. The report is extremely critical to Slovenia. Some countries are among the most critical countries, including Slovenia. This report identifies very important things. I suggest you read it. They stress, among other things, that we give 86.9 euros per capita in Slovenia for the justice system, while the average of Europe's countries is 41 euros. They say Slovenia has 71.2 judges per 100,000 inhabitants and the European Union average is 45. On the other hand, we have Mr Masleš's statements which claim to be a major problem because they are working too hard because they are running out of time, etc. The matter is not compatible with what Europe is finding. Slovenia has 209 employees in the courts, with an average of 103 in Europe. That's amazing information. The number of judges is far too high. Let me also warn you on date 28. 5. 2013 when the European Commission responded to our actions and for the first time very clearly recommended to Slovenia that it should regulate justice. As part of what Europe has called on the government of Mrs Bratušek, we also have for the first time a measure to regulate the situation in the field of justice. In particular, they said that bankers had to be held accountable for bad loans. Let me remind you that about this time last year, I sent Mr Fischer a confidential report on the list of bad credits in Ljubljana and other banks. Nothing's happened until today. To this day, we have nothing in this area. The latest information is being said – so it was possible to represent Mr Fischer on the Committee – that he assigned half one prosecutor to solve this case. If that's the case, then the situation is alarming. I should probably put them in charge of about 20 on that list of D.A.'s. The situation in the judiciary – we often talk about the independence of the judiciary. That is true, but it is also an independent legislative branch of power and an independent branch of power. These are controlled in some way among themselves, but if we take into account the powers of all the powers of authority, as provided for in the Constitution, then it is very clear that there is no reason for the legislative branch of power — we — to consult the judicial branch of authority, how the judiciary will work, under what laws, within what time frame. We can't interfere with their decision. There is definitely a constitutional and legal possibility for Members to intervene in the judiciary, and there is therefore no reason not to use it as Members. The issue of a permanent mandate – so that the meeting does not give rise to the fact that the SDS objective is to abolish a permanent mandate, because this is one of the things that needs to be settled in the judiciary. The permanent mandate is a European norm. Slovenia is also a special feature from this point of view that we love judges in Parliament. We have a number of other options to set up a permanent mandate, following a constitutional change, such as some other countries having probationary mandates and similar measures before someone reaches a permanent mandate. If I conclude this part, I will say that Parliament's independence in the adoption of laws is clear. No one can influence today. The independence of the government in adopting and proposing laws is absolute. No one can influence her. The independence of the judiciary in terms of how they decide in judicial proceedings is their completely autonomous right and we cannot interfere with it, but we can comment that there will be no confusion. But the judiciary has brought under this independence some other things that Europe does not know. Ladies and gentlemen, the judge's case is not a matter of independence, mistakes in the judiciary are not a matter of independence. Inefficiency, irresponsibility are not a matter of independence. The distinctions between judges and bankruptcy administrators, including journalists lately, are not about the independence of the judiciary. The trial in unreasonable lengths is not a matter of judicial independence. Political motivation is not a matter of judicial independence. Obsolete, established writings, lost writings, late written judgments are not a matter of judicial independence. Protecting your own privileges, as the Germans have estimated, is not a matter of judicial independence. Neither do court proceedings in the function of discrediting individuals. What I will say next seems particularly important to me because I see that there is no particular interest in any of these numbers being communicated to Slovenian people, pensioners, those living for 500 euros – that is to say – and they are paying the judiciary. From the point of view of Europe, I would also like to draw your attention to these figures. The numbers I'm going to give below have been taken up by the National Assembly's research work of 30. 11. In 2009, I also compared them and summarized them according to the 2006 document The European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice. I'm afraid there's no more recent data. I guess it's only changed a little bit. It could be worse. Slovenia. I will analyse the responsibilities of judges in three ways – disciplinary responsibility, criminal responsibility and substantive responsibility. I am not talking about criminal liability in terms of whether someone commits a classic crime, as is the case with Mr Škobernet – this is quite another matter. I am talking about disciplinary procedures, criminal procedures and the substantive responsibilities of judges from the point of view of their work, related only to their work. It must be said that the disciplinary responsibility of judges in Slovenia is regulated, but it is carried out within the judiciary. That's another way, and unfortunately there's no specialty here. As far as the criminal liability of judges is concerned, judges have immunity. Judges for their wrong decisions, late decisions, unfair application of law, etc. don't answer. In particular, I emphasize, they don't answer. 26. Article 26 of the Constitution states that an individual has the right to be compensated, but all citizens pay for the damage. All citizens, even if the judge was wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case in Europe. In Austria, judges are as responsible in terms of disciplinary responsibility as we are in Austria, but they still have a fine, there is even a reduction in their pension. The law regulates civil liability. Take care, for the misapplication of the law, of unlawful or unlawful acts, as they say in their legislation, that individual receives compensation from the State, but the state recovers it from the judge. In Italy, the system is similar. There, too, they know the substantive and criminal responsibility of judges in relation to their decisions. They also receive compensation from the State, but the problem recovers it from the judges. It must be stressed that I am running out of time to see a similar situation in Germany. They even lower their pension there. I'm talking, like, trial in unreasonable terms, based files, etc. In such cases, responsibility is arranged in such a way, and we do not have these responsibilities arranged in this way. Some things need to be pointed out quickly. Sanctions imposed against judges: Austria 26, Italy 51, Germany 25, Slovenia 1. There's a similar relationship in the DA's office. Disciplinary procedures and sanctions imposed: Austria 22, Italy 68, Germany 55, Slovenia 1. There's a similar relationship between prosecutors. Here's just about the number of files. We all say the problem is a number. Austria has 22 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, Italy 11, Germany 24 and Slovenia 50. The number of prosecutors is similar. Let me conclude with the information that the Austrian prosecutor writes 353 indictments every year, Italian 257, German 234 and Slovenian 71. By number, however, there are most of them in Slovenia. More in the future when I have the floor as a motioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u4	Thank you, too. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Justice as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u5	Your Honor! A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Committee on Justice, which is held at its 24th urgent session 5. 6th and its first follow-up 7. 6. examined the proposal for a decision on the state of justice submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, drawing also on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 3. 6. the opinion of the Government received today and the material of the Supreme Court of 5. 6. 2013 After extensive consideration, which lasted approximately 13 hours, the Committee adopted its amendments to all points of the proposal for a decision and changed its title to a recommendation. Finally, a draft text was drafted, which was agreed by all and adopted without a vote against. I will read it in full because, given the situation in the judiciary, it is important: "An updated proposal for a recommendation on the state of justice. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a debate on the state of justice and found that the situation was not satisfactory. In order to improve the situation, concerted efforts by all three branches of government towards greater efficiency, openness and transparency are needed. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the judicial authorities are not sufficiently effective in the prosecution and handling of the worst forms of economic crime and corruption, so it proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, within their constitutional position and legal powers, to proceed with the commitment they would make to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in which they would clearly state that a substantial reduction of judicial proceedings is necessary within one year and to take all necessary steps to improve the situation in the field of justice. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that it is important for the judiciary to be aware of their responsibilities in terms of both greater efficiency and accountability for the work and mistakes of judicial officials and to ensure that they are properly sanctioned." The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u6	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Dr. Senk Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u7	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Problems in the Slovenian judiciary did not occur overnight. It's been a number of years, you could say, since the independence of our country. As I have pointed out several times, and in this we are united in the Government, improvements are certainly possible and urgently needed in the field of the state of justice. Both judicial statistics and European or international assessments and recommendations testify to this. In many areas, the decline is due and the resulting decrease in judicial backlog reflects a positive trend, but there remains a worrying rise in judicial backlogs, for example in labour disputes, and a general trend in judicial efficiency reduction – a smaller number of cases solved each year. It all points out that changes, comprehensive changes are absolutely necessary, and that is why at the Ministry of Justice we have prepared certain amendments to the legislation, and we have also proposed certain changes to the judiciary. These proposals pursue the following 4 objectives. First of all, increased autonomy and transparency in the functioning of the judiciary for the greater reputation of the judiciary. Secondly, greater efficiency of the proceedings and the burden of judges to shorten the average decision-making period and remedy backlogs. Thirdly, amendments to some key parts of Slovenian legislation, those directly regulating the functioning of courts and judges, and others. Fourthly, the promotion of alternative dispute resolution, including mediation, arbitration and some other forms. As an additional measure on Tuesday, on 4 June, together with the judiciary, we signed a joint commitment to improve the situation in the judiciary, which the Government confirmed yesterday. In it, the two branches of government agree on the current state of affairs in the Slovenian judiciary and commit each to their, purely concrete and time-bound results, which can be easily verified. If I give you some of the key points in the commitment. First of all, we know exactly where we are today. The text of the undertaking clearly identifies the current situation in the court, which is not satisfactory. I have already mentioned that there are 2% fewer important cases each year and the average duration of the proceedings is from 13 to 20 months. Second of all, we know what we want. Targets are clear. In the second year at the same time, the average resolution of cases in some cases will take less than one year before all courts and even only three months before certain courts. Thirdly, the commitment is very transparent. The objectives are set for each type of court and case separately and are objectively measurable. The tasks of the judiciary and the government are clear. Thus, it will be very easy for the public to verify that we keep our word in the judicial and executive branches of power. Fourthly, we have a clear and detailed plan. Measures are envisaged to streamline the trial, legislative changes and the provision of staffing, spatial and other substantive conditions for the conduct of the courts. By signing a commitment, which, as you know, took some time to establish that it was important and necessary for them to join in, the judiciary has now clearly demonstrated that it understands the demands of citizens and the economy in an effective court and that it assumes full responsibility for improving the situation. There's something else I'd like to say and briefly comment on the events of the last few weeks. According to all the findings received by the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, a clear picture is slowly showing. Some errors have been made both in the court and in the prosecution, and according to the actions of both the Supreme Court or the judiciary and the Attorney-General's Office, they obviously act on one and the other systems within themselves. Let me finish with some final thoughts. I believe that we have taken the first steps together to ensure the rule of law and that the situation is slowly turning towards better. You can expect me to continue these steps, decisive steps in this direction. In order to reach the rule of law, it is not only the coherence of the judicial and executive branches of power that you have an important responsibility as a third branch of authority, respected colleagues and colleagues, including you in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u8	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u9	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! First let me say the following. With regard to the reference to the meeting of the National Assembly, there have been very unreasonable complications during this week, indicating the suspicion of the interconnection of the left political option and the judicial branch of power. From the facts found, where both time and method are clear, it can be concluded that the intentional and obvious infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have taken place in order to convene a meeting on the situation of justice on the same day as has been declared some of the apparently well-known judgments in the Patria case. The aim was more than clear — to blur out the problems of justice that they undoubtedly are and to abuse the session on the other hand for political accounting purposes. Let me explain. The request for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was tabled at the Slovenian Democratic Party on Friday, 24 May 2013. Three days later, it was clear that the District Court would issue a judgment in the case of Patria on Monday, 3 June. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 443 of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the Court is obliged to declare a judgment on the day on which the final words of the accused are completed. The closing words were given, and the sentence of the judgment was not given that day. On Friday, 31 May, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided that a meeting on the state of justice would be held on Wednesday, 5 June at exactly 12 noon. The District Court then postponed, on Monday, after the closing words of the accused, the alleged complexity of the judgment’s sentence — how interesting — on the day of the extraordinary meeting on the situation in the judiciary, just an hour before it began. At the time of the judgment in the Patria case, it was apparent that such a long explanation could not be written on 40 pages in two days. It is quite obvious, as lawyer Hrybernik also pointed out, that the judgment was written before Monday's final word of the accused. This is also proved by the article by Toni Perić in the last Sunday Diary, which appeared before the verdict, and where, interestingly, the content of the judgment against Janez Janša has already been written. Interestingly, the affair was also announced in August 2008 in the same diary. We can say that everything has somehow returned to the scene of the crime. Therefore, the transfer of the judgment to Wednesday was carefully adjusted to the start of the extraordinary meeting. Since the Committee on Justice did not end on Tuesday, an extraordinary meeting could not be held on Wednesday. This clearly did not follow the plans of certain actors both in politics and in the judiciary in order to hold a meeting immediately after the judgment has been delivered in the case of Patrio. This is quite evident, since the Vice-President of the Committee on Justice, who comes from Positive Slovenia, has, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, postponed the adjournment of the meeting for Wednesday morning, at the time when the judgment in the Patria case was delivered in parallel. On Wednesday or Tuesday evening, there were two other events that further indicate that there are no coincidences with us, even if we wave our hands. The first took place on Tuesday evening when representatives of the government and the judiciary signed an undertaking to improve the situation in the judiciary. Manevere, the day before the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, follows the creation of an external feeling that the judiciary really wants to assume its part of the responsibility to improve the functioning of the rule of law, and it is interesting that Minister Plitcanic has fully withdrawn his findings so far on the state of justice and has fully accepted the conclusions of the judiciary, which he has consistently rejected so far. No one in this commitment, which was signed between Prime Minister Plitsnik and Mr Masleša, has committed itself to taking responsibility with a derogation when irregularities occur, a mistake in justice. In fact, nothing will change with this commitment. It's just throwing sand in your eyes. It is that Mr Maslesa and Mr Fischer remain in their positions in view of the fiasco they have experienced in the past days. However, another unusually coordinated event was the presentation of the prosecution's report in Hilda's case. By the way, the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party for compensation for defamation in Del, all on the same day, has been made. The compensation was not awarded, but at the same time an abnormally high compensation was awarded for, let me put it this way, the stateless stickers in the Mirage case. Real coordinated events. To those who do not believe in coincidence, this may rightly appear to be an unacceptable coordination between the judicial and the current executive branch and the coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as soon as the Committee on Justice began its meeting, we wanted to make a public presentation on the issue of the state of justice, which was rejected or rejected by the coalition Members. This has been the first time since I've been a Member of Parliament, and I've been here for about 9 or 10 years. A public presentation of opinions is intended for all those who wish to express a certain opinion on a matter. Everyone here has the opportunity to talk about a specific matter, both the judiciary and the public concerned and the policy, to express their views. So far, such a way has still proved to be good and effective. Let me remind you of the public presentation of opinions on insolvency law. The very public presentation of opinions has contributed to the improvement of this legislation, as countless issues have been raised in the course of the debate, which have been brought to the attention of everyone who has touched on the matter. Minister Pličanič also admitted that the public presentation of opinions at the time helped him improve legislation in the field of insolvency proceedings. However, obviously due to some different objectives, certainly more politically-related, the proposed deadlines were not adopted in the broader debate on the state of justice. Moreover, in the coalition, you have prevented both the Attorney General and the President of the Supreme Court from giving their opinion, even though they are the very part of the justice we are discussing. Let me tell all those who are following us today, to make it clear what we wanted in the Slovenian Democratic Party with a public presentation of our opinions, what our questions were. We wanted to answer the following questions. Firstly, is the state of justice fully in line with the principles of the Slovenian Constitution and the European Union's acts? Secondly, how does the state of justice affect the reputation of the state of Slovenia abroad and the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and thus development? Thirdly, what legislative changes are needed to implement the recommendations of the institutions of the European Union in the field of justice? Fourthly, what measures are most necessary to improve the situation in the judiciary? Fifthly, is there also a need to intervene in the Constitution in the field of justice in addition to legislative changes? Six, what are the actual effects of the activities so far on reducing judicial backlogs, and which should be continued or strengthened? Week, what are the effects of austerity measures in the area of justice? Eighthly, should the issue of liability for procedural errors and other irregularities in justice be exacerbated, and how? These were the questions that we wanted answers to in the broader debate. I am sure that citizens and citizens too want these answers, but the coalition has decided that there will be no such debate. Why, they'll probably be able to explain themselves further. We have been reminding the Slovenian Democratic Party of the poor functioning of the judicial system for years. Our warnings did not begin until six months ago, as did the rebels on the streets who, we can now say, were politically abused for the purposes of the left political option. Nor has our fight for a just state, for a legal and social state, started for a fair judiciary with the Hilda Tobí case or the Balkan warrior. Our warnings about the scrupulousness of the judicial system have been stacked ever since independence, but no one wanted to hear them. They're all very smart today. The political interconnection of the left option, both with the judiciary and with the media, has obviously put you to the point where you no longer recognize in the sky the soaking errors as was the error in Hilda's case. If they were identified, they'd demand responsibility. All further proceedings in this case by the judiciary are therefore merely a waste of sand in my eyes. No one took responsibility in the form of a waiver. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as has already been said, we have been drawing attention to the following things in the judiciary – inefficiency, the longevity of bankruptcy and other proceedings, the interplay of politics and justice, which also results in politically-mounted trials against individuals, the trial in unreasonable lengths. For many years we have been alerting and opening up questions about the duration of the judicial mandate, opening questions relating to liability in the judiciary. We also point to strong solidarity when individuals in the judiciary protect each other. The bankruptcy judges thus protect the administrators, the judicial administration protects its judges, the superior court covers the mistakes of the subordinate court, and in the end, the Court responds to all of this either exceptionally milky or not at all. It does not respond to the eccentric phenomena of non-compliance with fundamental legal principles and violations of human rights. No one recognises the delay in proceedings, but at the same time all supervisory complaints are automatically rejected as unfounded, irrespective of the excess of the legal and other reasonable time limits. The next point, which we have been alerting for many years and is crucial, is that we remind politically appointed people at the highest levels of justice and of people who have come to their posts despite the fact that their appointments in the past have triggered and continue to raise many concerns and doubts about their work, such as the functions of the Attorney-General and the President of the Supreme Court. Such appointments undoubtedly pose a major problem for the independence of the judiciary, and above all for a fair and fair trial, which must be the fundamental intention of justice if it is to follow the search for truth and the search for justice. With us, it seems that the political motivation of procedures and direct processes, as it has happened, has a priority over the truth and even before the facts, for example, in the case of Patria. The case will undoubtedly hire lawyers in both Slovenia and abroad for a long time. This is illustrated by the separation, not only of the people, but even of the legal profession, which points out the consequences of such a verdict, where there was no unequivocal evidence to show that the crime was actually committed. The court must operate on the basis of evidence, solid and unwavering. I am sure that this case will appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, where it will undoubtedly prove that this judgment in the first instance represents the greatest disgrace for Slovenian justice throughout the period of Slovenia alone. Only in what European country would such a case, with evidence that is not available, with such an indictment, come to the court at all, rather than to such a conviction? The jurisdiction may be announced before the next state-level elections, as has the practice of launching SDS-related affairs so far. We all want a legal state, a judiciary that will judge effectively and honestly, but whenever we show in the Slovenian Democratic Party inefficiency and anomalies within the justice system, we run into the obvious that we are interfering with an independent judiciary. In the debate at the Committee on Justice, it was clear through the different opinions of the representatives of the judiciary that the judiciary and the prosecution were not capable of self-reflection. At the same time, it has also been shown that they do not tolerate any criticism and that any comment, however well-intentioned, is taken as an attack on the independence of the judiciary. Mr Gorenak presented, on behalf of the proposer and for the last time, an accurate picture of the situation in the judiciary, especially in his work, when he outlined how many judges and prosecutors Slovenia has compared to some other members of the European Union. The data show that there are also 3 times more per 100,000 inhabitants, but their effectiveness is significantly lower, and the responsibility, when sanctions are to be imposed on them for the mistakes made, is almost non-existent. The number of sanctions imposed against judges in 2006 shows that Germany has implemented 51 sanctions and Austria 26 and Slovenia has imposed only one penalty against the mistakes of judges. This probably does not tell us that Slovenian judges are infallible and almost superhumanly effective. It most likely tells us that there is no sense of taking responsibility, but above all that judges are protected among themselves, as is the case with practice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we demand a judiciary that will be effective and fair for all and will be politically impartial and, above all, such a judiciary that will be responsible for the mistakes made. The Attorney-General, Mr Zvonko Fischer, said a while ago in Odessa that the prosecution and he, as chairman, should not bear the burden of responsibility. We rightly ask here whether then the judiciary is exempt from any liability. The judiciary cannot and must not avoid legal responsibility and supervision. Each branch of government has control – legislative by the electorate, which is evident in each election, enforced by Parliament. The only thing in the court is that it doesn't seem to be the responsibility of the court. They reject even the concept of objective responsibility, which is taken as self-evident in cases such as the disappearance of Hilda. There is no debate on this. You know exactly what someone has to do. The case of Hilda Tobut, the case of the Balkan warrior, is a number of cases where those who demanded justice eventually lost their legal and human satisfaction and those who committed the crime remained unpunished or the case was outdated. Some have even received a reward — high compensation. All of this points to inefficiency, incompetence and also to the corruption of Slovenian justice. This country condemns people even without evidence, and those who have stolen our common assets, which have brought banks to their own expense to a near break, remain at large. There shall be no proceedings against those responsible for such acts. Moreover, Janez Janša was sentenced to 2 years in the first instance without evidence, while, for example, we have the case of Mr Mitja Ribičič and the genocide of post-war beatings, where time and method are known, but nothing happens. That is why we are asking in this National Assembly about the responsibility of the Slovenian judiciary. The Hilde case can already confirm that. When the disappearance of Toběšov took place, Mr Maslesa, President of the Supreme Court, as Prosecutor General Fischer, should immediately and immediately resign. Instead, however, they treated the media and the public arrogantly against anyone who dared to say such things out loud. I must admit that I also expected a more courageous response from the Minister of Justice, and above all the call for a resignation. If, at his request, the Attorney General and the President of the Supreme Court did not resign, I think the Minister should offer his resignation without delay. Not because he is not doing his job well, but I would like to let him know that in this country, however, responsibility for the mistakes made is being accepted, and the hope that Slovenia will once become a just state would become greater. And nothing happened. Everyone preferred to wash their hands nicely by signing a mutual commitment two or three days ago, which was supposed to improve the state of justice, and in fact everything would remain the same and nothing would change. But the show was made for the public. There are also stories in the judiciary that will obviously never be processed due to political influence. Let me mention again the case of Mrs. Simone Dimic. The matter has not yet been brought to a close, and there is quite a few evidence in play. The case of Mrs. Katarina Kresal, former Minister of the Interior. She has concluded a corrupt business in the matter of the National Investigation Office, but the lady is exempt from all proceedings, even though she has signed the contract. Maybe it's because he has influence in justice. As well as the recent case of Mr Virant – corruption in the case of airline tickets. Nothing happened. Mr Virant has saved up an entire 7 000 euros, but on account of his own pocket, there will be no mistake. In this case, however, nothing has yet been processed. Not to mention Mr Jankovic, where all things still stand, all things are not processed. He's still the great mayor of Ljubljana. We also have stories that have been dragged into the justice system for an abnormal length of time, where families have been destroyed, and in the end, no one is responsible. I have mentioned Mr Fojaker's story several times before, and I think it is good to see her again, because it is this very story that confirms that the rule of law does not work far with us. Due to the long-term criminal procedure, Mr Stigmatized, his medical condition was poor, but despite the controversial way in which the prosecutor worked, she did not accept responsibility for the procedural errors made. The prosecutor, by means of charges and appeals against acquittals, acted unprofessionally, recklessly, and most likely even unlawfully, as the district judge also pointed out in the exoneration judgment. We are faced with cases of bankruptcy proceedings that point to a rush between bankruptcy managers and judges. Let us also recall two cases involving irregularities in bankruptcy proceedings. The bankruptcy proceedings of Sicura were conducted by the District Court in Ljubljana. The bankruptcy manager was Brane Gorse, who was recently sentenced to four years in prison. Interestingly, the judges in charge of the proceedings were not satisfied with the evidence provided by the creditors in their complaints. She's scored a six-time high award to the Gorshet. The complainants have annulled 16 of its decisions in their own investigations, but there will be no proceedings against it. Let's take a look at the bankruptcy procedure. There, 346 000 euros were paid to Governor Branko Ogorevic, and another 117 000 euros were paid before that. In doing so, the judge forgot that the manager of Ogorevc had already received an advance of EUR 137 000. This was later determined by the Higher Court in Ljubljana, but here, despite all the facts, there is nothing more to be done. The money has been paid, the creditors have been deprived, but there are no sanctions and no responsibilities. There are also several cases of irregularities in the field of justice. Let us recall the case of Judge Anton Šubica, who went to the lawyers and did not write a verdict in Elan's case for nine months, so the case could therefore be obsolete. The following case – Judge Janko Keček, who was also the president of the District Court, who dealt with the case, was the suspicion of criminal service, the threat to the then Prime Minister Janez Janša, so long that the proceedings against Officer Gomilska had expired, but it was a found place, for the established time and way. It took the judge first three years to do nothing and then for almost two years to inform the parties. The epilogue was next. The case is out of date. The judge wasn't answering. On the contrary, this judge was even rewarded. At the beginning of 2010, half a year after the case was over, the then Justice Minister and the prominent member of LDS Aleš Zalar again appointed him President of the Ormož District Court, and the Supreme Court awarded him a medal in life's work because since 1981 he has been leading the courts most successfully and one of the most successful judges. However, Officer Gomilska, then Minister of the Interior and LDS President Katarina Kresal, again hired. Something else happened in the case of Josip Zagajski when he threatened Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Consider another example of double criteria regarding the introduction of disciplinary procedures in the prosecutions. In the case of the Coroner girl, Aleksandra Štiblar, state prosecutor, spoke publicly about the alleged irregularities of the prosecution in that case. The Attorney General, Dr. Zvonko Fischer, has therefore decided to initiate disciplinary proceedings against her. In front of the Disciplinary Commission of the Attorney General of the State, Stiblar tried to dismiss all the evidence from the proposal, because it was clear to her that she had violated the reputation and dignity of her job, for she had raised suspicion that everything had not been done as it should have been. Finally, Mrs Aleksandra Štiblar, a former state prosecutor, has left the prosecution for this event. The fact that Attorney General Zvonko Fischer did not act so quickly and decisively in the case of the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, Mr Furlan, certainly also raises doubts about the double criteria. All of these are methods that come up with some interesting way of doing things. We protect our own as long as they keep quiet and obey and when someone decides to speak out about irregularities or say that the emperor is naked, this person must be immediately disabled, discredited, and possibly persecuted. Justice, the symbol of justice, is supposed to be blind as a rule. In one hand, it is intended to carry a scale where the arguments of the defendant and the counsel are to be weighed, and in the other, a two-sword that symbolizes reason and justice and can sway it to or against any side. Her blindness represents impartiality and objectivity. Do we really adhere to all these principles? Unfortunately, it can also be seen that, on the basis of all the above-mentioned examples of illegal practices in justice, we are far from the content of the aforementioned right symbol. The question is how we will restore people's confidence in both the judiciary and the institutions of the rule of law. With convictions without evidence, especially when the mediator is missing, as in yesterday's Views of Slovenia, counsel Cheferin said when he commented on the final judgment in the case of Patrio, most likely not. With such judgments, when we leave doubts about the correctness of the procedure and political impartiality and independence, we rightly cause people's violent reactions and share them again. Such judgments also undermine the reputation of justice and confidence in it, and it is not surprising that the results of the Epistle poll on the state of justice show that 72% of people are dissatisfied with the functioning of justice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been drawing attention to all these irregularities and anomalies within the judiciary for many years. We hoped that justice reform would take place a year ago. At that time, it was obviously not a good enough time or a good time to wait. The Slovenian State, if it finally wants to become a just, legal and social state, as enshrined in the Constitution, needs a commitment, but not like this, when it still does not know who is drinking, who pays, but a commitment in which it will be clear that the judiciary must take responsibility for its work and its mistakes and not take any criticism as an attack on the independence of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u10	Thank you for presenting the Group's position. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u11	Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Social Democrats understand the rule of law so that before the law we are all equal in respect of fundamental human rights and freedoms, that between the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government there is a system of so-called brakes and balances that prevents the executive and legislative authorities from interfering with the judiciary through constitutionally permissible powers. It is true that too many times in our lives, we are not all equal before the law, that human rights are not respected, and that the individual branch of power does not properly exercise its constitutional role or even interferes with the constitutional powers of others. Today we are supposed to discuss the state of justice. I would like to point out that we should discuss this, because it is clear from the request made and also from the actions of the applicants on the home committee what their real purpose is. The latter is shown, for the first time, in the political accounting and lustration of all judicial officials whose conduct is not according to the year of the SDS. Names and surnames of judges and prosecutors are charged in all possible ways, manipulated and discredited. Is this a way to solve problems in the judiciary and the prosecution? It's obviously the only way for the proponents to do it. Secondly, in flat-rate assessments, deliberate generalisation, false claims and misleading the courts and the prosecution, when everyone is doing bad, everyone is corrupt, everyone is protecting criminals who are unacceptable for any serious debate on how to improve the work of the judicial authorities. We need to discuss the problems in the judiciary, because there are no doubt problems, but in the way we do it today and as the proponents do, it is impossible to do so. We're in Parliament. Is it also that today we waited 20 minutes for someone to come with a newspaper in hand to the hall, perhaps the foretold form of political struggle? We're in Parliament. Is it also true that we have been given 13 hours of debate on individual cases, including the SDS directive, how should a judge decide, and that none of those appointed can defend themselves because they are not in the National Assembly — this is democracy? Thirdly, in their own actions of public officials, when they are not involved in judicial proceedings, where they are invited, by instilling assemblies and demonstrations before the courts, and by political commenting on the judgments of the courts and other decisions of the judicial authorities, they wish to abolish in any way the already established reputation, dignity and authority of the courts and the prosecutions. Such a path, colleagues and colleagues, means poison and destruction for the rule of law. Unfortunately, it leads in a direction called the law of the street. What example is set by people when all decisions that are not liked by politicians or economic elites are torn apart and discouraged when they are ignored and avoided in all possible ways in a court of law? This is a disastrous message to people that they should do the same and not respect court decisions. Fourthly, in the prepared material for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, based on a set of newspaper articles and on a skillfully manipulated text of the proponents who, with half-truths and silences of individual facts, display a distorted picture of the judiciary and have nothing to do with an objective assessment of the situation in court. On the basis of such starting points, the debate in the National Assembly is also difficult, as all the substantive arguments and indicators are suppressed on the other side. I'm sorry about that. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that without the consistent application of the constitutional role of the judiciary there is no rule of law. This means that, on the one hand, judicial authorities must have their sovereignty, authority and appropriate working conditions, and also a high level of responsibility for their work, decisions or conduct. I'm stressing a high level of responsibility. You can't do it without each other. As in many other areas, we have problems in justice in Slovenia. That's a fact, and we can't put our heads in the sand. For a long time, we have been dealing with the issue of the effectiveness of the courts or the resolution of judicial backlogs. The analysis of the functioning of the courts in 2012 shows that there is a continuing trend in the reduction of judicial backlogs, which is good. However, when we speak of judicial backlogs, we need to be very precise. Let us not generalize matters, for with this many court and a number of judges or judges we do wrong. The recently signed agreement between the judiciary sets out very precisely the objectives of reducing judicial backlogs across specific substantive areas and also provides for concrete measures to achieve these objectives. It is very important for the Social Democrats to significantly reduce the so-called bankruptcy procedures, which would, in particular, reduce the insecurity and infirmity of workers on the one hand and, on the other hand, speed up the process of maintaining healthy businesses and allow their new economic momentum, and consequently at least partially keep jobs. It is right that both the Government and the National Assembly, within their jurisdiction, assist the judiciary, not "help". This can be done in particular by providing adequate material, information and human resources conditions for the work of judges and by amending legislation that will enable the optimal organisation of the work of the courts and the leadership responsibility to achieve the objectives set. In addition, it is right for the Government and the National Assembly to keep an eye on the functioning of the courts when we have in mind the appropriate organisation and achievement of an appropriate level of efficiency. However, the National Assembly and the Government must not interfere with the powers of taking substantive and procedural decisions by judges and courts. The same applies to the taking of decisions by prosecutors in criminal proceedings, but it should be pointed out in the same breath that the judicial system, courts or the prosecution, must be able to respond quickly to any irregularities or any misconduct occurring within or within their own kind. Accepting such responsibility should be self-evident. It is not good for anyone, at least for the rule of law, if instead we are witnessing a public dispute between the competent minister on the one hand and either the Attorney General or the Presidents of the Supreme Court on the other. Such practice must be stopped in Slovenia. It must also be stopped by the fact that we are all judges, all prosecutors, with every publicly perceived problem or excess in justice, and we give some kind of judgment, and we do not really know all the facts, nor are we able to judge matters. Social Democrats are pleased that the Government has been able to reach an agreement with the judiciary, with both parties committing themselves to doing everything within their powers to increase the efficiency of the judiciary. We believe that this can be a good way to strengthen and strengthen the independence of the judiciary as well as their responsibilities for their actions or decisions. In spite of all of this, we believe that the key guarantee for achieving greater efficiency in justice is in particular the professional conduct of judicial officials and their awareness that they are doing their work fairly and honestly. These are the expectations of the Social Democrats, not just expectations, but above all the demands of the Social Democrats for the future work of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u12	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u13	Honourable President, Minister, Secretary, Colleagues and colleagues! Jusest ars boni et aequi. The real art is the art of the good and the just. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware of the importance of the rule of law. In recent years, especially in recent months, she has been put to the test. There is a general public perception that the rule of law does not work transparently and effectively. In the Civil Gazette, we are also aware that we have a system of division of power, which is divided into legislative, executive and judicial branches, and that each branch of power is independent in its functioning. Nevertheless, each branch of government is also responsible for itself, responsible for the remaining two branches of government, and in particular each branch of government is accountable to its citizens and citizens. Therefore, in the Civil Gazette, we believe that today is not the time to make accusations and to discuss in no detail the bad functioning of the judiciary, but that as soon as possible everyone involved is aware of their responsibilities and that, together with the remaining two branches of government, effective and fast-acting systemic solutions are found as soon as possible. We believe that those prepared by the Government and the Ministry of Justice in the past year are the right path. Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts are already being adopted in the Government, which are already coalitionly coordinated and bring about substantial changes in the area of greater responsibility and independence within the judiciary. In addition to the government's systemic solutions in the National Gazette, we support and welcome the commitment signed a few days ago by the Government and the Supreme Court, which is dedicated to all citizens and citizens, a commitment that has both sides committed themselves to the people in order to ensure that the Government and the judiciary assumes every part of their responsibility to improve the current situation. The document represents a concrete commitment of the executive and judicial branches of power to citizens to ensure that each of them can, and in accordance with their competences, ensure a more effective functioning of the rule of law. Both sides agree that, with a common objective of ensuring greater efficiency of the judiciary, each part of its responsibility must be assumed. It is clear from the signed undertaking, and the situation also reminds us that legal changes are needed, so the Civil Gazette supports the changes that go in three ways – increasing the efficiency and independence of the judiciary, increasing the quality of control over judicial administration and increasing the responsibility of the judiciary. In order to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, all courts undertake to carry out projects that have positive effects, such as the Triaž project, the Lukend project and so on. New time standards or shorter time frames will also be set, and they will be in agreement with the Ministry of Justice. The efficiency of the judiciary will also be positively affected by greater autonomy of the judiciary when certain powers are transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the judiciary. The main focus of the solution is that the supervision of the functioning of the judiciary is solely for the control of the functioning of the judiciary and not for any interference with the substantive functioning of the courts or individual judges. The Courts Management Authority will prepare reports to which courts will respond with reports on the resolution of possible irregularities. Then, as a form of extreme action, the Supervisory Service may propose to the Judicial Council the discharge of the President of the Court. It is imperative that the Presidents of the Court assume greater responsibility in the conduct of the cases of the judicial administration. The President of the Court may be dismissed in cases where the case of a judicial administration does not comply with the rules, the quality criteria of the work of the courts or irregularly, and in cases where the court fails to achieve the planned business results in accordance with the work programme for two years. The population and the economy of this country need an effective dispute resolution service. If I find myself in a conflict, the law and justice must offer me the opportunity to resolve such a dispute quickly, cheaply and professionally. To some extent, the silence of the mediation courts is great. It is not right that the parties are forced to mediate with an argument that they should agree on their own terms or that it will be a long-term decision in their case. The parties want a decision. By doing so, we achieve justice, we reach a judicial decision. In this way, we receive judicial practice and prevention against additional justice. In addition to the domestic public, which is dissatisfied with the functioning of the rule of law, we are also reminded of this by the European Commission, as shown in the last report of March 2013, and it is therefore appropriate to say that this year's National Reform Programme is setting up and at the same time commits the Republic of Slovenia to regulate the area of judicial backlogs. How ambitious the objectives set out in the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the judiciary, the Supreme Court, show the following data. The resolution of the case in the District Courts now lasts on average 13.2 months, the expected settlement time after the new one is 9 months. The settlement of the case in the District Courts now lasts 15,2, the expected resolution time is 11.5. On average, the economic case in the district courts lasted 14.2 months, and the expected time of resolution is now 30% in two, three months, and the remainder in a year. The resolution of social disputes in the labour and social courts now lasts 12.4, the objective is 9 months. The settlement of a criminal case in the District Courts now lasts 18.3 months, the aim is 12 months after the jurisdiction of the indictment, the District Courts before, in only 6 months. The higher courts resolved the civil case on average within 4.6 months and the economic case in 4.7 for 3 months. The number of pending cases is expected to decrease by 3% annually in 2013 and 2014. Solving offenses – now 10.4 months to solve, the ambitious goal is 6 months. Staff position in the judiciary at the end of 2012: total number of judges 983 and 47.7 per 100,000 inhabitants, ratio of judge: judicial staff 1 to 3.4. For a new goal for 31. 3. 2014: Judges 927, 45 per 100,000 inhabitants or ratio 1 to 3.8. It is clear to us that the Justice Minister and the Government have very modest powers in influencing justice. The Minister of Justice can only propose official supervision of the work of the judge, propose a business review, give an initiative for disciplinary proceedings, propose the discharge of the President of the Court, and these are only proposals. These proposals shall not be decided by the executive branch of the Authority, but by the Council of Justice, which shall decide independently and sovereignly on the follow-up. With amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, the aim of increased accountability in the judiciary can be achieved without prejudice to the independence of the judiciary. Also an extremely important achievement is the said signed commitment between the judiciary and the executive branch of the judiciary on the improvement of the situation. For the end of some good news from the judiciary. In 2012, Slovenian courts resolved a million and a half cases of judicial nature. A million-and-a-half decisions, mostly solved – almost each of the Slovenians for one solved matter, which is not a negligible achievement. The Courts of Appeal – this indicates the quality of the judgments – annul only 10 to 15% of the judgments. This shows that the quality of judicial decisions is, to some extent, appropriate. In 2012, the District Court in Ljubljana resolved 40% of the economic cases. These are things that are extremely important for our economy to be dealt with quickly. I'm not saying the situation is good, we're criticizing it, but progress is in the right direction. What is most important in this story, and this is a good signal from our judiciary, is that in the last two years the courts have condemned the five most important managers of this country and the six former Members, which shows that they are no longer untouchable in this country and that the trend is correct. In 2012, 849 perpetrators of economic crime were convicted, the ones most affected by the most harmful substance in the country. Specialised State Prosecutor's Office – progress. In 2007 15 cases pending conviction, 2008 23, 2009 27, 2010 33, 2011 26 and in 2012 54 most demanding. Specialised State Attorney's Office – a rare but positive signal. The proposals for the conclusions before us today will be supported by the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, as the conclusions are sufficiently critical, binding, ambitious and legally correct. There has been quite a bit of talk today, and it is likely that there will be, in the direction of the complication that has taken place at the convening of the extraordinary meeting that we are meeting today — with regard to the appeal itself, especially as to what was happening on the committee. To some extent, this complication is also incomprehensible. If I had started with a Latin negotiation, I would have ended up negotiating from our former common country, when this behavior of the proponent, the initiator of this extraordinary session and these topics were somehow said, "Well, now I won't have it the way I want it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u14	Thank you for presenting the Group's position. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The latest events in Slovenia and certain repeated patterns of Slovenian justice have burdened and saddened citizens and citizens, personally and, as it seems, the sky today. Payable non-discipline, failed prosecution of economic crime, lengthy judicial proceedings, procedural complications, corruption, low trust in the rule of law, two legal states, one for elites and one for small people – this is only a fraction of the state of Slovenian justice that we have already warned about in the Slovenian People's Party in the past. Let me remind you of the year 2010 when, in connection with the Bulmastif affair, where the judge ruled in favour of a particular party on the basis of a law that had not been in force for a long time, we protested loudly against the decomposition of the rule of law. Already in the Slovenian People's Party, we became aware of what is now being pointed out loudly from all sides – the problems that Slovenian justice has. Many debates in recent weeks and months have been about where to look for the causes of the problems of Slovenian justice, many debates, why almost no one believes in the right and justice of our society, why the ideal of equality before the law has remained merely an ideal. In our search for answers to these questions, we have often come to the attention of politicians that the independence of all three branches of government should prevent us from dealing with justice, from defining one way or another, or from thinking about the justice system. In the Slovenian People's Party, we respect the constitutional provision on the independence of the judiciary and we do not intend to put ourselves in the role of a judge in specific matters, because this is not our task, but above all, an objective and fair trial is the responsibility of someone else. As elected representatives of the people, however, we have the right and duty to protect and guarantee, within our powers, the framework for the exercise of constitutionally defined rights, such as the right to equality before law, the right to judicial protection, the right to a trial within a reasonable time frame, etc. Slovenian justice has some problems. In the Slovenian People's Party, before this fact, we have never covered our eyes and closed our mouths, and so it will remain in the future. We are in the National Assembly because citizens and citizens expect us to do everything and more to finally start correcting the mistakes of the past so that they can wake up tomorrow in a better future. Part of this better future is also a higher standard of the rule of law, including and especially in practice, not just in theory. The task of our Members is not only to believe in the rule of law, but to play an active role in its implementation. We can do this through legislation, and Members of Parliament have devoted much of our time to discussions on problems at different levels on the functioning of the rule of law and the search for answers to these problems. The Minister of Justice, Dr. Senko Pličanič, has said several times that he is aware of the problems that Slovenian justice has and that he has solutions. That is why we ask him and expect him to bring, as soon as possible, proposals for amendments to the legislation which, as then coalition Members, represented last autumn in the National Assembly. Certain proposals were good, so in the Slovenian People's Party we do not understand why they were stuck somewhere in the cabinet drawers. The future of the Slovenian judiciary and our country must not depend on which coalition the minister is a member, but must depend on our joint rapid response and effective measures. Now is not the time just for promises, vows and sweet words, now is the time for action. We are Members of the Slovenian People's Party, and we will be responsible and actively involved in the necessary legislative changes. Together with my colleagues and after consulting the people in justice, we have already made some concrete proposals that we have already made to the Minister. We've got a few left in preparation. Among the areas that we believe we need to see change as soon as possible, some today would be listed. Alternative dispute resolution. Every year the courts are again burdened by the large number of new cases, and it is therefore important to promote alternative dispute resolution, which will in particular increase the rate of resolution of cases in economic and labour disputes at lower costs than the judicial procedure. Amendment of the Real Law Code and regulation of the land debt problem, as the existing legislation allows the various managers and tycoons to legally protect their assets even in prison, so that no one can harm them. The greater importance of alternative penalties, prisons, which should help reduce the burden of Slovenian prisons and improve the socialisation of convicts. Effective confiscation of assets in cases of economic and other organised crime. We also need to start an open and public debate on the amendment of the judicial mandate with the possibility of introducing a probationary mandate after which objective criteria would test the efficiency and expertise of the judge's work and thus the appropriateness to continue to carry out the judicial function. We are responsible for the rule of law for all three branches of government – legislative, executive and judicial. Each has a third of the responsibility that must be realized and exercised every day. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of this responsibility and are ready to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u16	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to all! Let me begin by saying that in the DeSUS Group we expect the purpose of today's extraordinary session not only to slander Slovenian justice, to reduce public confidence in the judiciary or simply to impose responsibility. We hope that today we will not listen to accusations and empty populist puffs, but we will hear concrete and effective proposals that will enable the judiciary and the prosecution to work more effectively and restore the confidence of the population in the rule of law. Today, for sure, justice, especially the judiciary, is on an extremely difficult test, as the target is both a political and a public attack. The judiciary in such situations must not stay away from the worst public pressure, but must take a distance in order to allow for an independent and professional trial, taking into account fundamental constitutional values. In the DeSUS Group, we trust both prosecutors and judges in this direction, and special praise and thanks go to those who, despite recent emotional, irrational pressures and aspirations, have maintained their attitude and expertise and have not bowed to all of these, almost insufferable pressures. The fact is that errors are also taking place in justice, and it would be illustrative to expect that it is possible to create a perfect justice system at all, that defendants or convicts should never escape, that those responsible will always be held accountable for their actions, etc. There's also a human factor involved in this system, and it's human to be wrong, they say. In doing so, it should be stressed that sanctions for errors are already included in the system, in particular in cases of the worst violations, disciplinary and criminal offences. The question arises how major errors are still admissible in this area. In recent times, the media’s most resilient cases have shown that in the field of justice we have clearly identified the shortcomings that need to be addressed. The fact is that there are too many doubts as to the objectivity and impartiality of the individual judge and, as a consequence, of the entire judiciary. The public’s indignation and, as a result, its lack of confidence in the judiciary are understandable. It is worth noting that the dissemination of the policy on the effectiveness of the judiciary and the correctness of the decisions taken by the judges is extremely dangerous and already interferes with the constitutional independence of the judiciary. Independence of the judiciary is a prerequisite for the implementation of the principle of a democratic and legal state. Obviously, politics does not realize that aggressive criticism of the judiciary and the call for accountability, as already said, of independent judicial authorities, further undermines the functioning of judicial institutions and hampers their effectiveness. I am afraid that this is how politics tries to divert the attention of its failures and that people are convinced that the perpetrators of the situation in the country are everywhere but in politics. In the DeSUS Group, however, we are pleased that the Minister of Justice has recently succeeded in preparing specific measures to improve the functioning of justice and system-wide legislative changes. He also established a special group of independent experts to prepare additional measures to improve the functioning of the judiciary. However, we wonder if the Minister and the team have managed to make radical changes within just a few days, why they have not done so before at the competent ministry, under the leadership of the previous government. However, it is not a problem that has arisen over the past few months, but it has been pointed out by the public for years. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that this government has responded so quickly and has prepared the proposed solutions. At the same time, however, we hope that the speed of preparation has not affected the quality of the solutions and that the solutions proposed are complete, thoughtful and, above all, effective. Unfortunately, our country has met too many consequences in the past year quickly and therefore too poorly prepared legislation. However, Hilde’s case is so receptive in the public because Toběvo is a person of corruption, greed, recklessness and immorality. All of these citizens and citizens see as the reason that Slovenia is today where it is – in a nearly bankrupt economy and a practically inactive country. We are aware that the price for the current situation in the country cannot be paid only by justice. It is also true that justice is one of those areas that require change and action. Ladies and gentlemen, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the conclusions adopted by the Justice Committee on the basis of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u18	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenian justice needs to be changed. We've probably already united on this. The courts and state prosecutors are too slow, there is no respect for the order of cases. The judicial system is faced with a number of errors, which are also referred to by the media, and within the judicial system there is no sanction. We are reminded of the bad situation in Slovenian justice by many institutions and individuals. Let me just name a few. Firstly, the European Commission draws our attention in its recommendations to the faster and more efficient work of the judiciary. Secondly, in economic forums, managers and entrepreneurs warn us Members that providing the rule of law is the first prerequisite for the functioning of the economy. Thirdly, when we visit parliamentary offices, we are increasingly reminded of the problems of slow and irregular judicial and prosecutorial decisions by citizens themselves. Public research shows a low level of public confidence in the work of the judiciary. Obviously, the state of justice doesn't worry about justice itself. The highest representatives of the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office claim that the situation could otherwise be improved, but it is already solid. They defend changes and, in particular, defend the existing system when it comes to the issue of control, while ensuring that controls within the judicial and prosecutorial systems are not carried out consistently. If they are misinformed via the media, they shall not sanction the officials for whom the error has been established. In New Slovenia, we would like to point out that such an approach to addressing the issue of justice is particularly harmful to justice itself. The lack of self-control casts a bad light on the entire judiciary. The greatest harm is done to those judges and prosecutors who faithfully and honestly perform their duties. We believe and know that such judges and prosecutors are in the majority. The judiciary, as an independent branch of power, has not only the right but, on the other hand, a great deal of responsibility for the legitimate, proper and effective exercise of this authority. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the lack of accountability of judicial officials is a central problem of an effective justice system. It seems problematic to us that the key issues relating to the work of officials, the selection of candidates, the evaluation of the work of officials and the decision on their responsibilities are decided by bodies such as the Council of Justice, the Personal Council, the Council of State, the Disciplinary Commission, the general meeting, and could also be listed. In other words, this means that no one bears personal responsibility for any decision. Behind these decision-making bodies are those who have actual influence and power of decision. We insist that the official must bear personal responsibility for each decision, including the vote given by the judge or the prosecutor as a member of a body. In doing so, let us stress the responsibility of the judge for the decision he took as a member of the Senate in the appeals cases. In this case too, the President and a member of the Senate must bear full responsibility for their vote in a separate case. In particular, from individual court cases, we highlight the practice of deciding in court or court of appeal. Second-degree courts are often completely uncritical, and I can say that they are also irresponsibly repealing the decisions of the Court of First Instance, bringing matters back to trial at first instance, even though they have all the legislative grounds to decide the matter on their own merits or on their own substance. In this way, the proceedings of the appellate courts result in unnecessary long-term proceedings for the parties and for the courts of the court which would not be necessary and for taxpayers the obligation to pay compensation for infringements of the right to a trial without undue delay. In Novi Slovenija we support the management approach in the judiciary, as announced by Minister Pličanič as the minister of the previous government. We stress, however, that there is no time for hesitation, and we expect that, in addition to yesterday's introductions of the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, there will be others who have already announced legislative changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u20	Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u21	The judicial branch of power is extremely important for the well-functioning of a society – we all recognize it. It is therefore necessary to discuss justice and seek ways to improve its functioning. But the general debate on justice, as we have today -- this in this house, it seems to me, we are not aware -- the parliamentary debate, one of the branches of power on the other branch of power, contains two dangers. The first danger is populism – overcoming responsibility and thus human discontent from politics to justice. Another danger is that such a debate offers an opportunity to exert political pressure on justice. In this Chamber, we probably all agree that the situation in justice, although the number of pending cases has been steadily decreasing in recent years, is not good. But before we give ourselves to this universal satisfaction that this common statement is accompanied by, I suggest that we remember that the vast majority of those not present in this Chamber are convinced that the situation in the executive and legislative branches of power is also not good. The debate on justice is necessary, but only if it is sincere. I believe that the football team, which I will mention several times today and which is still to be coached before the elections – this is one of the titles used by some accused in the Patria case to mark the SDS – has triggered this debate because I would like to discredit the judge in the middle of the game, not to help the judicial organisation to have a fair and effective trial at every game. I would like to explain my opinion further as Members can best be done – so we ask ourselves how the legislative and executive authorities should act if we sincerely want to change the situation in justice for the better, and even more what actions the government and parliament should avoid. I will begin with what we should avoid in Parliament and in the government. If there is anything in this world that we all agree on about justice in principle, it is that we should avoid political pressure on the judiciary and the politicisation of the judiciary. I said we agreed in principle. How's that working out in practice? Bad. The political habit that politics, which is on the wheel of justice, all together declares itself a political construct, and thus the judicial authorities for politically motivated and completely unworthy is increasingly "and" as my daughter would say. Any such statement not only diminishes the reputation of the judiciary but also means political pressure on justice, as the Member or Minister who affords it comes from the position of power, the power which, if nothing else, lays down the staffing and material conditions of the work of the judges. There will be more to be said in the following article. The recorders, as well as the inventors of such theories, are precisely our colleagues from the football team, which must always be trained before the elections. They did so when judicial proceedings against the former Member of the Rupar began. This is how they initially reacted when it came to MP Marinič, and this is how they react every time the captain of this team is involved in the process, and let it be a civil suit against a Finnish journalist, a report by the anti-corruption commission on his property status, – remember the juicy marks he gave? — or for criminal proceedings against him for corruption in the purchase of patriots. It's always a political construct everywhere. Today, after the judgment has already been delivered in this case, I cannot go past the question of whether they have made a request for an extraordinary meeting precisely because of this case. The level of the statements made by John Janša and his supporters, the protests before the court and this extraordinary meeting convened for Wednesday are certainly not an environment in which the judiciary can decide peacefully and without political pressure. She said more about it than she said I would now. I leave it to you, colleagues and colleagues, as well as to citizens and citizens. It would be much easier to believe in a case where you did not know the described model of pressure used in the past in the SDS. All together, I ask you whether it is possible to believe in the sincerity of the SDS as a reference to this meeting if it is not willing to give up such and similar pressure on justice. I find that hard to believe. Another aspect of this problem is the politicisation of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, when you see politicians who resent justice, they blame others, their political opponents, then you know that you have to deal with someone whose intentions have never been fair. That is exactly what the proposers of this meeting have done. The charge of the state of justice is attributed to the political left and to its human rights officer in the judiciary. In the worst ideologies of fighting, they talk about mostly left governments, which have been very familiar with the past and with the closed cycle of legislative adaptation, providing mental patterns of the past and the "appropriateness" of the staffing to date. I don't want to go to their level and start a debate on whether the situation in justice is more of a right or a left, but I would rather ask you, can we believe in the sincerity of the SDS Group, if the whole problem of justice narrows down to the problem of the evil left, which preserves its monopoly, and the good right hand, which did not have the right opportunity to break this monopoly? Can we believe that in the SDS, after all the experiences they have with such accusations, which have never led to anything other than a fight, they want to contribute to a better work of justice? This time, too, it's hard to believe. The second thing that politics should avoid in relation to justice is bad examples. We have already mentioned one such bad example, and these are the discredits of justice. It certainly makes a decision that some politicians do not like. I've already counted some of these distortions. I can add the last in line, namely, the SDS President's attack on a court that decided on compensation for the illegal cancellation of a car sticker contract. Rather than admit to the legal dilettarianism of his government, which has justifiably abolished the sticker, but has not been able to legally cancel the contract correctly, he is angry that the court is deciding by law and not by his will without having any evidence to do so, but he says before that that he is being persecuted without any evidence. Speaking of poor examples of policy towards justice, I would like, in addition to the theories already described, to draw attention to the style of conduct, as you know, "I do not recognize this court." We have a number of examples of avoiding court invitations or failing to enforce court decisions in this country on the policy side. At the outset, I said that we would like to ask the Members of the Positive Slovenia how we should act by the executive and legislative authorities who sincerely want to help the more efficient work of justice and what actions we should avoid. So far, I have devoted myself to the actions that we should avoid, and now I would like to say something else about what these two branches in favor of the judicial branch should do. The task of the legislative and executive authorities is quite clear in relation to justice – they must ensure good procedural and material legislation by which the judicial authorities operate, and they should also be provided with personnel and material conditions for their work. As far as I am monitoring the political debate on the effectiveness of this judiciary, and until a good year ago, when my colleagues from Positive Slovenia – I did not have the opportunity to participate in these debates – things have always proved to be in the description of the works and tasks of the National Assembly itself or of the Government. Whoever has looked at the commitment signed by the Government and the Supreme Court will see that most of the tasks to be performed are still at the Ministry and consequently the Government and the National Assembly. It is obvious that in the past there has been quite a bit of bad work in these two branches of government, which, as I said at the beginning, is well known by the citizens who are not in this room, and little less so by those who are in this room. On the other hand, it must be said that this work is difficult and needs constant improvements, but it is difficult to do if we are not honest about it, if our advocacy for the good work of justice is merely rhetorical and actions never follow. Let me begin with Mr Gorenak, who has so far had much to say about justice and will certainly have something else to add. When he took over the Ministry of the Interior in this mandate, he also wished the prosecution in his department and, despite the opposition of the entire profession, he also obtained it – in order to ensure, as is commonly said, a more effective work of the prosecution. The prosecution has only 190, not 262 city prosecutors – only 70%. In addition to the fact that the prosecutors did not have the Lukend programme, as Prosecutor General Fisher had pointed out in the interview, and because someone overlooked that the increased volume of work in the courts entailed an increased amount of work on the prosecution. Did Mr. Gorenak fix that? No, no, no. When the previous government launched headless savings and proposed a 8.27% reduction in the prosecutor's funds, did it put up its back and name for the organisation, which efficiency should it improve? Did he warn you that there's no work to be done with less prosecutors? Not at all. Can the prosecution work effectively with a 30 percent or more hole in the prosecution's ranks? No, no, no. We are all able to speak well of the support of justice, but our honesty is shown when we need to do or sacrifice something for these beautiful words. Something similar has happened to the judiciary. The difference between verbal support for justice and acts that are the real opposite is the story of the Lukende programme. The previous Janševa government has taken more than €6 million away from the judiciary, which is 5% less than last year, and the Supreme Court has only been able to respond to a reduced budget so that more than 250 experts who have mainly implemented the Lukend project to remedy the backlogs. There's a third case. It is the drafting of legislation in the field of justice. At the time of Minister Plicanič's ministry, in the previous government, whoever followed these preparations could see a number of press conferences and statements and publications on the website which cited this legislation. Minister Llecanic is already seven. 6. In a meeting with the President of the Government and the President of the Supreme Court, Maslesha announced the transfer of jurisdiction to the notaries of the courts of succession and the transfer of the judicial investigation of the courts to the prosecution in order to ensure adequate material conditions for the judiciary. 3. Seven. 2012 added to this the provision of additional information which will relieve judges and judicial staff of unnecessary administrative tasks in order to be able to focus on the trial. 3. 12. 2012 said that he meant serious changes and that he was counting on the support of the coalition and also of the citizens. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 12. 2012 we were able to read on the Ministry's website that, days ago, a proposal for a new Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service was sent to inter-resort and professional coordination, which form part of the so-called judicial reform. In this regard, the contribution of the President of the Supreme Court of Masles, who was apparently still very suitable for the President of the Supreme Court five months ago, was particularly exposed. Why the preparations were delayed and why they took so long, it is likely that the minister will explain himself from his experience and his work. My point of this explanation is as follows. What I have just said is followed by a speech by Secretary of State Kucler Dolinar at the time of Janša's government, which has already been abandoned by coalition partners. This is a speech of 11. 2. At a consultation at the opening of the judicial year, where she said that none of the laws prepared, except the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, was ready to be included in a governmental or later parliamentary procedure. She added that the Slovenian judicial system needs strong and effective medicines to make sure that the aspirin that some wanted to help it does not work. Thus, during the time of the government of Janez Janša, the concerns of the executive and legislative branches of power for the better work of the judiciary ended. By withdrawing all the legislation that is supposed to help the judiciary work more effectively, I do not believe that under the current government we will be able to bring all of this through parliament, but I believe that at least part of it. Colleagues and colleagues! At the already mentioned meeting of Minister Plicanič, Prime Minister Janez Janša and President of the Supreme Court Branko Masleša 7. 6. 2012 all three agreed, I quote: "the situation in the judiciary is improving, as statistics also show, as the trend continues to decline in the number of pending cases". Today, the words that come from the types of SDS about justice are quite different. What has changed in this year — the state of justice or the political interpretation of this situation? What is the truth, and what is the situation in justice? Before I say my opinion on behalf of the Group of Members, let me say that I do not wish to conclude on a number of individual cases. In the SDS material cited — 5 or 6 — it is ridiculous to make judgments about justice, which is handled annually by nearly 200,000 cases. These few cases may be the basis for indignation, but they may also be the basis for sanctions against individual judges or prosecutors, by means of a mandatory provision that policy cannot judge whether errors have been made. They cannot, however, form the basis for a full assessment of justice. Objective assessments of justice can only be accepted on the basis of data on the functioning of the whole system. If we look at justice in this way, we see that since 2005 it has seen positive trends in the reduction of judicial backlogs, and that the speed of the trial and thus the exercise of rights and rights is still much slower than those in the EU, in the countries best served in this area. As long as we do not approach them substantially, we cannot be satisfied with the situation in justice. We believe that the commitment made between the Government and the Supreme Court is a very good basis for improving this situation, and that today the National Assembly will best conclude this debate if it calls on both of these authorities to start implementing it as soon as possible. If we answer the question raised at the outset — whether the situation in justice has really deteriorated in this year — that the political assessments of its operation have changed completely or only the assessments have changed — my answer is yes. It's both changed. The state of justice is worse. The already mentioned headless savings and abolition of the Lukende programme have contributed to the greatest possible extent. But political assessments are also different for other reasons – the SDS is no longer a government party, and its assessment of the situation is always dependent on whether it is in the government or in the opposition. Undoubtedly, the need to put pressure on the court and, in the case of Patria, the need — and this is not limited to the SDS — has contributed to this assessment to the need for people's anger due to Hilda's case, however, being diverted from politics to justice. I believe that it is our job to find those who are relevant and do our work in this conglomerate of motivations for negative assessments and to finally turn our backs on politics. The only question is if we're capable of it. Let me finish. Less than in the process of implementing the commitments between the Government and the Supreme Court of Football Teams that train for elections by pressing on a judicial organisation, we will sooner, as far as justice is concerned, where we want to be – between countries with exemplary justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving on to the debate. First of all, I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Shadow Plitschani.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the presentations of individual parliamentary groups, some false claims and some false claims were made. To all those who are present here, and also to all those who are watching and listening, I am obliged to explain how things have really been going, what they are, why things have happened and why they haven't happened. I won't be long. Before that, I would like to remind you that the subject of today’s extraordinary session is extremely important. We are talking, you are talking and you are going to talk about an extremely important issue, a matter related to the very essence of the country, to the functioning of the law. The state and law are two inseparable concepts. At least that's true in modern societies. Therefore, I would like to remind you of where the idea of the rule of law originates or why the rule of law that you are talking about today and you will be talking about is so much more important than just discussing the state of the judiciary, the state prosecution, whether there are too many prosecutors, too many prosecutors, too many judges, too few judges, etc. Here we are discussing the fundamental issue of a modern society, a modern state. Let me illustrate this fundamentality, the origin, the importance of the rule of law with words or a quote from the well-known Latin thinker Cicero, but you know that most of the legal tradition, including the legal philosophy on which the applicable law in modern Western and other democracies is based, is still based on what was happening in ancient Rome and on the foundations they laid. Cicero said something very important, and on this basis, once again, the rule of law is based on the idea of the rule of law, the fundamental importance of law for the functioning of modern society. He said we were slaves, so we wouldn't have to be slaves to humans. Why is rule of law important? Why it is so important that the rule of law works and in this context the judiciary and the state prosecutor's office, which are not the only two systems forming the concept of the rule of law. Because it comes from Cicero's point of view that if we don't want to have a dictatorship, if we don't want to have a form of government that we had in the past, then we only have one option, and that's to submit to the law. That is why I call on you, including in future discussions, to be aware of the seriousness and importance of the topic you are discussing, and in particular to pay attention to the fact that you are referring to the facts that are true. In this regard, I will have to comment on some statements made by honourable Members and Members who, as it is said, were not true or were wrong. First of all, a few observations by the honourable Member of Mrs Irgle, who has said two things that are not true. The first is that – I was the Minister of Justice in the previous government and also the Minister of Justice in this government – I changed my position in this government. She was talking about changing my position or changing my assessment of the state of court. This statement is false. From the first day forward, or from the moment I found out, after an in-depth analysis of statistics, what the situation is in the Slovenian judiciary, I keep speaking, publicly and in Parliament, and at meetings of the Government, wherever – all the time one and the same. I operate on the same data, and I draw one conclusion from this data all the time. Let me repeat it for a second. The situation in the Slovenian judiciary is not satisfactory – even in the wider judiciary, but I am particularly stressing the judiciary. I find all the time when it comes to a more concrete comment on numbers — again in short — that trends in some parts of the judiciary are positive and generally negative, or that things are changing too slowly for the better. My statements and my assessments are not changing in anything, they haven't changed in anything this year compared to last year's. I keep saying what I hope most of you have found out. My mission, my goal is alone, so I have also entered politics and therefore I am also doing what I am doing, and this is to contribute as much as possible to improving the situation in Slovenian justice, with particular emphasis on the functioning of the judiciary. I'm not interested in the political orientation of the government. The political orientation of the Government, whatever, however anyone comments, has no bearing on what my opinion on numbers is, what my opinion on the measures needed to improve. The government's orientation has no bearing on my work. My only responsibility to Slovenian citizens and citizens is to tell the truth. If I find that the situation is worrying, unsatisfying, bad, good, whatever, it's my duty to say it. It is my second duty and responsibility to do everything in my power to make this better. I'm also doing this from last year's to today's, and that's how it's gonna be in the future as long as I'm secretary. Another such statement made by honourable Mrs Irgle, who is not true, is that the commitment you all spoke of is a commitment, to which the judiciary finally joined on Tuesday this week, created as some sort of manoeuvre with which the Government washed its hands. You have made a similar statement, honourable Member Irgl. It was also clear that we were preparing this now quickly so that somehow, I don't know, we could divert our attention in some way. As it is said, the darkness is too serious for us to think about it in this way, to discuss what we are doing. I have proposed that this undertaking be concluded on the first day of this mandate. I also proposed it last year, during last year's term. Unfortunately, there was no real understanding on the part of the judiciary that we would go into something like this. This year it was an understanding. If you have followed my public statements regarding the formation of this undertaking – I think you or at least you should – then you know that from the first day we prepared this commitment, we have coordinated well for two months with the Supreme Court, we have been convinced twice that we have already agreed, we have been just before the signing and every time the judiciary has withdrawn. He finally realized that it was necessary that this is one way to make things better, one way that is the only way to make things better. I think we can all agree on this, I think you can all agree with me that if we want to change things in private life, in politics, in public, the only way we can work together. You can't force things. This can't be a long time. That's why my evaluation was last year, and this year it's unchanged that this is necessary, even though I was critical of the judiciary and I am, and I will, as long as this is the case. I was convinced, and I am also convinced, that the only way for things to change is for cooperation, in this case cooperation between the two branches of government, because the system of division of power also assumes this. The branches of government have to cooperate, otherwise the system stops. In the same way, I would like to see that, in achieving this important goal for our society, for our citizens and citizens who rightly expect us to act decisively and quickly, regardless of which party we belong to, what kind of world view you share, I think that, even though it has been somewhat less than in the past days, it is clear that everyone sitting in our Slovenian Parliament shares the vision and belief that things need to be improved in the Slovenian judiciary, and quickly so. I therefore call on you to put this over your shoulder as much as possible, regardless of other political differences, the use of the various mechanisms that you use in parliamentary democracy, because only in this way will Parliament be able to prepare and adopt, in a short time, quality legislative solutions that will help the judiciary and the state prosecution, and to anyone else in the judicial system to improve its functioning, to make it more effective. In doing so, I would stress or look at one of the findings that have been made. I do not remember which of the Members and Members of Parliament said it — if most of the obligations of this undertaking, which I mention, are on the side of the Government. I think Mr Möderndorfer was from the Positive Slovenia Group. For those of you who have not read the commitments – it is very exact which are the measures to be carried out by the judiciary, which are the measures to be carried out by the Government in one year, up to 1. 3. 2012, while the measures that the Government can implement are clearly linked mainly to proposing legislative amendments, in a smaller part to providing staffing, material conditions, reading, additional budget money for the judiciary. Most of the business is on the side of the judiciary, which is in itself understandable. It is the judiciary that has a vast majority of its powers and responsibilities to make things better in the short term. The government has certain responsibilities and powers, but they are significantly smaller than the judiciary. That is also true, since the judiciary is an independent branch of state authority, it is the one who, as it is said, has the highest powers and responsibilities to carry out its business quickly, efficiently, professionally and in the interests of citizens and citizens who, like all of us, pay for it. Then Mrs Opec of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group in her implementation, at least as I understood her, somehow overlooked the fact that yesterday the Government had adopted a new Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service when she talked about putting these legislative measures on the table. Like the others, you've probably been familiar with the media, and otherwise, it's a second step. I have to remember the first one, that's a change in bankruptcy law two weeks ago. This was now the second step in amending both laws, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, done yesterday. The next step will be in a good month, again in two months. You cannot say that this government and I, as the Minister of Justice in it, are not effective – not only effective but very effective. Now the comment on this is that we – I think – spoke about this by Mrs Porotat of the Dessus Group, and here I must point out that she was making the wrong statements – both novels, and it was understood that the commitment I was talking about was also prepared on the basis of Mrs Hilda's example, however, now that it was quick to point out that it was nice that we were so effective, but that the rapid solutions were not good and that we needed to be careful and so on. Here I must explain to everyone who is here and you may not know this, but especially to viewers and viewers and listeners of this extraordinary session, because it is right that the information is as it is to learn about the facts as they are. Once again, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, both the amendments adopted by the Government yesterday as the second in a series of legislative measures that I and I intend to propose, I began to prepare, as Minister, as Mr Möderndorfer has clearly defined, there somewhere immediately after the summer of 2012. These novels were created to think that, just after those dates that Mr Möderndorfer mentioned, by the end of last year, they had been sent into procedure, but then, as you know, I resigned as Minister of the previous government and could not see to it that the coordination of the two novels would continue. In the meantime, when I wasn't Minister of Justice, both novels stopped. Why you're standing there, it doesn't make sense to lose words now, and I don't even know why. However, once again, it was my first task to reactivate the work on both novels, these and all others that I have already prepared in the previous mandate. Some are already very close to realisation, the adoption of the Government, some slightly less close, because I simply did not have the opportunity to continue this work because I had previously resigned as Minister. But I explain this in order not to create the impression that has been expressed by many in these past days – that we have now done something quickly. We didn't do anything fast. For these two novelties, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, 7, 8 months of intensive professional work, coordination, including intensive coordination with the judiciary recently or within the mandate of this government, so that these two novelties, adopted yesterday, are the result of coordination with the Supreme Court. I can say that the Supreme Court, individuals who cooperated with them at this time, at the time of this government, had been very constructively involved in the production of solutions in both novels. In no way did they object to what they opposed last year. If I draw the line, both novels are exactly what they were when I made them. We've even improved them. They do not contain any solution that I would not have proposed in the mandate of the previous government, nor do any of the solutions that I proposed during the term of the previous government, have we now excluded from this novel, but we have improved it all together. This proves that anyone who thinks of my work as politically motivated is wrong. My work is motivated by one single interest, and this is the one that I mentioned in the introduction – to contribute, through my professional, political and other powers, to improve the situation in Slovenian justice and in the other areas that the department I run covers, improves, in the shortest possible time, because we do not have much time. It's about Mrs. Popotat. I think I have explained most of the corrections relating to some of the claims made. What I would like to invite you to do once again is please be aware of the importance of the issues we are discussing, the importance of the role played by the legislative body. It is very important that we all step together, that we are truly together when we propose other legislative changes. There is really no time now, and there is no room for dividing left and right, one way or another. This is a question where, once again, I am sure that the common denominator is the same. I would not agree with Mr Möderndorfer, who earlier said that we would not look forward to learning too long about the same attitude towards the situation in justice or the same relationship when it comes to trying to improve this situation. On the contrary, I would suggest that you stay as long as possible in the joy of this fact and that you draw the energy needed to achieve the best possible legislative solutions from this joy. Quality is given to those who will be able to apply themselves in practice. We have applied this way that in one year, if we talk again about the state of justice, we will talk differently, with a smile on our mouth and with satisfaction that, as the Slovenians, as we have demonstrated many times in the past, we have managed to come together despite such and different differences and to show ourselves and our citizens and citizens who are actually running out of patience to be able to change things in a short time, let's say one year. Once again, Slovenia is in such a state that there is no time, it is simply unacceptable to use the creative energy you all have here for things that are irrelevant. Let us focus on what is important, what is in the interest of all of us and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Vinko Gorenak as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Willingly or reluctantly, today's session compares with the past, which were either on the committee or here on the same or similar subject, and I must say that I would comment very briefly on what some speakers have said. Mr Minister, I still believe, although I have not yet read these two laws of yesterday that they are going in the right direction, if what you said is true and what we have done in the previous term. I was somewhat disturbed by what you say – that it is in full harmony with justice. All well and well, but I am deeply convinced that, like us in the judiciary, we do not ask about their decisions – we can comment on them – so you do not need to be fully in line with justice. You are an independent branch of power, government, parliament, too, and there is no reason to go beyond the will of gentlemen who advocate a hard, orthodox system more like the past than the present. In general, as far as the views of the Group are concerned, I will say so. I am very pleased with the words of Mr Brulco, who presented them. He spoke of a high degree of independence, responsibility and accountability in the judiciary. If this is also the position of the Group of Members, we are fine, but then we should also support such legislation, not give the minutes that we have proposed, which we will withdraw and withdraw from the judiciary. We were proposing sound recordings, not classical records. As for Mrs Porotat's performance, I compare matters back and I find that you have read Mr Žnidaršič's speech, which he once had in court, and you have added only a special thanks to Judge Kleinšek. This is a very interesting thing. You were talking about slandering justice, talking about populism puffs. So I'll tell you, on a practical case, that some things are not blisters. They could be bubbles for you. They're not for me. Just look at one example. The legal disputes concerning court executions from the point of view of payments shall last for 4 months in Germany. If I'm an entrepreneur and you're an entrepreneur, and you don't pay me or I don't pay you, within four months, the court decides and the case is closed. We have four years and more to deal with. At headquarters we knew at least two private entrepreneurs who were in this position and committed suicide because they could not pay the tenants because they did not recover the cases from the courts. If it's a fluke for you, it can stay a fluke, it's fine for me, but I don't care about the two people who committed suicide and all those who worked with them. Excuse me! You can talk about anything. Commenting on the positions of the courts is not admissible. This is also what Mr Žnidaršič yelled from one of those benches. The matter is quite clear, as they said in 2009 in this House, specifically Mrs Kresal and Mr Žnidaršič. 14 days later, on May 18th, Mr. Pahor silenced them and said, "We can comment, we must respect these things." You're talking about special pressure on the court, you're thanking the judge, etc. It is very clear how these things are served. On Twitter the day before yesterday, Mr. Zalar came out from abroad and said, "Yes, but what is it about people protesting before a court of law? They do it all the time in America, they do it all the time." That's what Dr. Jaklitch from Harvard tells you, and I don't know who else is. So this is admissible — what is wrong with this? There's nothing wrong here. It's a matter of respect for the court's decisions. If someone said, in any case, I'm not talking about the present, the current one: "No, I won't admit it and I won't go to jail," that would be disrespect. But if someone comments on the court's decision and tells you what he thinks about it, this case is perfectly normal, according to purely Western criteria. There's nothing wrong here. You're also talking about the trial being the target of the worst attack. Have your conviction, just coordinate it a little bit and modernize it with modern times, here and there read something. The things you're talking about are no longer relevant. I can't get past Mr. Möderndorfer. I read in the media that you performed today at a judicial assembly in Cyprus. I think the judges' society has an annual conference there. I also read what you said there. Have you read the same speech now? I had a feeling it was the same speech because the media had already reported what you were saying there this morning, and now I see you've been saying the same thing here. Maybe you got the memo wrong, I don't know, but still. You're talking about the pressure on the court, too. I already told you to ask Mr. Zalar, he was the minister, he was the president of the court and everything else. He has a different opinion. Call him, ask him, and you'll see what he thinks about it, because you've also talked about conventions or what happened in court on Wednesday. You were also talking about political pressure on justice. It's a fluke, political pressure. What's that? What is this — political pressure on justice?Oh, my God! I was talking about political aspirations, which we have evidence for, physically, materially. Let me give you the following example. Planet TV is 2. 6. Report on how the President of the Court of Maslesha meets with Judge Kleinšek, another judge and Mrs Sugman of the Faculty of Law because he wanted to check this and ask them whether it was true that he would report correctly and they did not respond. Mrs. Shugman and a judge answered him. You denied that. Who wrote the answer to Dr. Sugman's teacher? Who? Journalist Rank Evil from Diary. She forgot when she kept sending her e-mail to the office, cutting off that passage where it said that the author was Mrs. Ranka Ivelija. These are the crumbs. They're interesting girdles. I have an argument. You don't have one. You were talking about stickers. I know this case very well, even though I believe that Mate, as then's minister, will say more. In 2009, your political partners, with Mr Bandle at the helm, made a decision on stickers – a completely unnecessary decision. The following are the successors, I am talking about Minister Bohinc, who did this, by placing it under orders of a confidential nature, where he writes weapons and such things. The label's not a weapon. That's probably what we agree on. Then what happened happened. We cancelled the contract, but due to the legal provisions of the Road Traffic Safety Act, not just to the mind. The Court of First Instance has decided that my concepts are reasonable. Even so, Cetis Celje didn't press charges, he sued Mirage. This must be said when the Court of First Instance has made a reasonable decision. He said that there were material costs, stocks, this and that, and the husband got about the amount that was negotiated. The Court of Second Instance says: 8 million 300 or 4 euros per Slovenian, per our citizen. With the judge saying to the attorney, "No, but I won't question the politicians in this business." She didn't want to make any evidence. The defence attorney proposed a hearing with me and Mr Mate, and it was said, "No, but the politicians will not testify in this process." Slovenian citizens need to know that. You talked about the D.A.'s office next. You said a little different last year. Last year, you said I was subordinated to the D.A.'s office that I wanted to have a prosecution with me, which is a violation of the Constitution. No, the Constitutional Court has already ruled. They said that justice under the Ministry of the Interior was a constitutional solution. You were still talking about not providing money for the D.A. Can you tell me why? Can you tell me why? Let me tell you the numbers. The numbers are as follows. We have 50 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. 50 judges! The Germans have 24, the Italians 11 and the Austrians 22. We have more than once than the Germans who have the most. We're going to the D.A.'s office. In Austria, there are 2.6 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, 3.8 in Italy, 6.2 in Germany, and 9. Another piece of information. The prosecutor in Austria takes 2 000 821 cases a year and in Italy a thousand 317 in Germany 967, we have 519 cases. Our prosecutor accepts six times less writings than Austrian. What do the D.A. say? In Austria they write 353 acts or indictments per year and in Italy 257, in Germany 234, ours 71 or 5 times less than the Austrians. I hereby substantiate the fact that the budget is too high. The budget is too high. Therefore, our citizens pay 86 euros a year and the average of Europe is 45. You're wrong. I think I've made it very clear to you that you're wrong. Mr. Fisher has dealt with other matters, not these. That's clear. By what position is not established, etc. Let me tell you about the viewers and another interesting thing for you. I've been invited to a consultation, just like your judges today. That's when I was acting as Minister. The consultations were organised by criminals and prosecutors, I think justice, but I'm not sure. In my role as minister, I came there and they served me coffee at the entrance. The same as Mrs. Barbara Brezigar. You know what happened to me? After a month, I got a receipt, a reminder from Kokra that I didn't pay for two coffees. I hope you paid your dues today, or at least they told you they were honoring you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u26	You have a replica, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u27	I'm not going to abuse the replica. I'm only going to talk about what you obviously don't understand. I didn't say the stickers were okay. Far from it. I even said they weren't okay. I don't know what kind of political botts you've been thinking about, but that's already your practice lesson. I was talking about the fact that it was right for you to stop them. Far from it, of course it's right. But you didn't stop them like you should have. And that's what I'm talking about. You broke the treaty illegally – I'm talking about the government, I'm talking about the one that broke it. What the court ruled, it ruled in the end. Unlike you, I won't judge. All I said was that when the thing that's really groundless and you did it in the government before you had the opportunity to do it, you did it – you broke it down badly. So you broke up, the state has to pay today. That's all I said. This didn't fly on you, but on the government, but you're the ones who felt obliged to answer. I only replicated this part that was misunderstood and the rest in the debate. By the way, I didn't drink coffee, so I won't have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Another replica of Mrs. Marjane Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Mr. Gorenak would like to replicate his statement. I didn't say he was talking about populist matters, but I generally felt that sometimes I had the right to feel some criticism that was unfounded, that had no basis, that was populist. That's my right, and that's what I said before the National Assembly today. Because sometimes we listen to things that are hard, that aren't real, that's what I said. By the way, Mr Gorenak, you have already told me on the committee that I did not support the amendment, which would have determined that we should remove the record in the classical form at the main hearing in the courts and introduce a digital one. I am not in favour of this because I believe that a classic record is being drawn up, signed and cannot be amended. It's a file that's being fed, and I'm staying. This is my position, and I ask you kindly, also the profession and some other Members thought so, and it did. If that's what I meant, that's what I meant, because I'm sure I'm right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We would now like to continue the debate. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The situation in the judiciary is in particular a development issue and an extremely important development issue for Slovenia. This is not only our conclusion, but we are repeatedly reminded by the European Union through its institutions, including the last report, of the recommendations of the Council of the European Union, on the other hand by concrete actions. Every time Slovenia pays its penalty for excessive procedures, due to inadequate conduct by the judicial authorities, the communication is clear – Slovenian justice does not work as it should. This is also a matter of reputation and indirect impact. Imagine what I was talking about, even in the light of the fact that foreign services also work hard at the price of the biggest victims, obtain data, say, within the framework of the Balkan Warrior Action, and on this basis a series of arrests and sentences are carried out against the cartel in the Balkans and a series of convictions everywhere except in Slovenia, where a little trial kick is made in the judiciary, and everything is well forgiven and everyone walks away. Or someone comes looking for him from one of the big countries with international drug trafficking in the port of Koper. This is a real event, don't worry. He was recently spoken of by the American ambassador. Ours are informed of this, the police are also ready to act, but those in court who should issue the appropriate act do not issue it on the ground that, because, by chance, that moment is disabled, the gentleman is on a wheelchair, is not besosummary, and disappears forever. Then we're in the eyes of a stranger's exot. That's not all, far from it. The justice you've been waiting for too long is a new injustice. If someone is waiting for justice for 5 years or more – by the way, Minister Zalar boasted a few years ago in this room that the average process in Slovenia has been completed in five years. A lot of people don't even see it. When it comes to entrepreneurship, imagine a company that has been waiting for five years or more due to judicial backlogs. During this time they are employed without wages, stay on the road, their families are in existential trouble, and the company sadly ends its journey. Even if after five years there is a judgment in favour of this company, it is a mockery of the rule of law. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also a major Slovenian problem in the light of bankruptcy and other procedures, which the European Union also reminds us of. That is why I say that the issue of Slovenian justice and the inadequate state of justice, which is bad, which you have confirmed on the committee today, when you voted in favour of the decision you yourself have proposed that the situation in the judiciary is not appropriate – that this situation is what the real problem is. Today, the debate is interesting in a few points. Let us take a look at some concrete examples. Mr. SD almost cried behind the microphone and said, "The appointed have no opportunity to speak and defend themselves in the National Assembly." I would have given him the right thing to do, but I suggested a public presentation of the opinions in order to just invite – and this was an integral part of the decision – judges, lawyers, prosecutors, all those we talked about to come to Parliament and talk about hearing the other side of the medal! Mr Brulc and his colleagues voted against it, even twice! Today, he is crying and deceiving the Slovenian public. Or, for example, Mr Möderndorfer of Positive Slovenia accused the prosecution of going to the Ministry of the Interior and throwing up at the SDS. To refresh your memory, this was Mr Virant's request, gentlemen from Positive Slovenia, with which you are currently in the coalition. By the way, the Constitutional Court said there was nothing wrong with this, but it was certainly not our request or the whim of Mr. Gorenak, as presented, but the demand of Mr. Virant that you are currently in coalition with! By the way, Mr Minister, when he spoke about how effective he was, he forgot that when I proposed a public presentation of opinions, he explicitly said that these were the right questions, but all the coalition voted against him, they did not take him into account. So much for efficiency. This has shown that he may be an expert, but that politics wants to continue tact when it comes to justice. Now we come to the point of the problem. This isn't just about organization and all the things we've been talking about. The problem is what can be defined as judicial policy. You'll say there's no such thing as judicial policy. Just a few years ago in this House, a guest professor, Dr. Roman Herzog, was a longtime president of the German Constitutional Court, an indisputable world authority of constitutional law, and he also encountered the same reaction when he mentioned judicial policy. They said it doesn't exist. There is, and he illustrated it with a very concrete example. It was at the same time that Chancellor Kohl and Chancellor Schroeder, a conservative and socialist changed years, and he said: "The same judges will judge in the same cases yesterday, today and tomorrow, but until yesterday there was a small layer of some small but important cases where they decided so, and from tomorrow they will be different. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a judicial policy." Those were the words of Professor Roman Herzog. To understand what judicial policy is, we need to look at not so many decisions, but in particular the reasons for these decisions – explanations. Let us take a look at a few cases from which it is obvious that, in fact, all this magnitude here is being defended by judicial policy. In order to understand the judicial policy of the Slovenian judiciary, an excellent case is the exoneration of JLA officers from the Celje Court. As far as I know, there was even a video proving that some former JLA officers illegally kidnapped a civilian during the war on Slovenia, and, as I know, beaten him with rifle hooves, but were completely absolved in court. But, please be careful, with the justification that I quote: "JLA was not the enemy army of Slovenia until October 1991." This is very interesting whether it should be continued with justice or clinical psychiatry. There's a lot to talk about, but it's a matter of profession. To understand judicial policy, including what is happening today, this is a very logical explanation and a very clear explanation of judicial policy. What the current Kafkov process is the only logical continuation of this interesting precedent. Let's move on to further understanding. In Slovenia, as far as I know, he was a convicted man who told others that he was being scolded, and he sued him. Then the first submitted to the court – you will not believe – a document on which the second officer of the Udba, the secret service of the totalitarian regime, against which there are both resolutions of the European Parliament, of the Council of Europe and many other acts, was eventually judged by the court on the ground that he may have been in the Udba, but that he is not allowed to say something in the democratic system because he may be offended. Be careful, translated into Slovenian: Even if you do, it is a crime to tell the truth because the truth hurts. This is Slovenian judicial policy. Let us look at this in the light of the continuation, so that the sequence is perfectly clear. I like to paraphrase things, apologize in advance, and make them more graphic so that people can listen more easily. I would like to know if ladies and ladies from Positive Slovenia would be so vehemently defending the situation in the Slovenian courts if they now faced a judgment against a newspaper address that said "The drug sale money did not end with Zoran Janković, but in his client Positive Slovenia". After we went to the court to seek justice, this would be rejected by an explanation which I quote: "If any reporting of irregularities in their operation or reporting on unwanted issues would constitute an unacceptable intervention in their reputation, this would be the end of an open debate on an important part of the issues." I'm very interested in what kind of comments we'd have. But that's exactly what she's been through with exactly that real address of SDS. This is also a reflection of judicial policy. Again translated into Slovenian: about SDS is allowed to lie, perhaps even mandatory. Today I asked the gentlemen of the court to explain to me what this means in terms of judicial policy. Now let's put this together. When it comes to someone on the transition left, even if he was a vigilante, even if he systematically violated someone's human rights, it's a crime to tell the truth because the truth hurts and the SDS is permissible to lie about. This is Slovenian judicial policy. Is it clear, then, why are some here so defensive? That's the problem. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, in the eyes of foreign potential investors, those looking for business cooperation, we are becoming an incredible exot. He also reads novels from abroad. They also read Franz Kafko. You know how Kafka works — the system sets up against the individual, that he is somewhere, unknown to where he has done something, not always something, somewhere once, not known, but guilty. The system rattles: he's guilty! Foreigner's reading Kafko. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to Slovenian justice, we live in a novel by Franz Kafka. That's really interesting. We need to be aware that in the eyes of the outside world, that's why we're becoming exotic. Such a judicial policy with a modern democratic Europe has nothing left to do with it. As a result, investors are fleeing, so there is no business cooperation whenever possible. That's why we all live worse together than we could have. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Slovenian justice is a first-class development issue. This situation is not European, it is not comparable to Europe, and these cases of judicial policy that I have cited are also not comparable to Europe. However, if you find a similar case in Europe, I would be very grateful if you would introduce me to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to calm down a little bit today's rhetoric. Mr. Mirko Brulc has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Nothing will happen to the calming of rhetoric, because Mr Grims is a master of babbling. I wasn't crying, and you were yelling. There's a difference. There's no reason to cry. Why were we against public debate? We already had two: Mr. Muscolo and the problem of plagiarism. Some of the underage clients came by, read your papers and went. It's nothing. From 2004 to 2008, several public presentations were banned or cancelled. We're for a public presentation, but not with hundreds of photos of newspaper articles. Are we going to read the Slovenian news and deal with justice or are we going to deal with the problems that are in justice? Professionally, not with newspaper articles, and not by evaluating the work of a judge or judge and saying that he is incompetent because he has so ruled that he should be withdrawn that this sentence is not real. It's not an expert consideration, because if something doesn't work for me, then I'm against it. I already told the board that you're leaving the courts always two dissatisfied, the one who got the punishment got too much, the one who won, and says they got too little. This isn't a professional debate, people, darling. There are problems in the judiciary that need to be solved. You're masters of photocopying. You've been very successful since President Türk. It's about investors running away. Magari to escape at least, the Agrokor who wants to have the Mercator, the one who bought the Fructal. They are all such investors who would pick up what we have, but not here they developed and built a new Fructal in Slovenia. We don't have an investor like that, but it's not justice. I'm sorry, I really won't be answering today, because it doesn't make sense. I think it would be best if you voted the verdicts, but you're going to drag the matter all the way out, because earlier, the order from the top was thundering out. It's a matter to be taken to the end. Here you go. Good luck with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. The draft decision on the state of justice is set out in the agenda. I will not talk about the decision because the appropriateness, according to the division of powers of the individual branches of government in the country, has been said by much by our legislative and legal service, and said that such a decision as was proposed was inappropriate, but we have heard that some regret that the original decision was not adopted today at the plenary session as well. Now I will no longer talk about the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Thank God we now have a recommendation, what the Legislative and Legal Service has proposed and said that this is what we can discuss. That justice and everything that is going on in it, and in particular the satisfaction with the sentences of the judiciary, depends on what the individual participant expected in the proceedings, depending on the sentence, I have sufficient experience with the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, where the role on this topic is the most. The annual report by the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman suggests that the level of implementation of the constitutional provision that Slovenia is a rule of law depends also on legal certainty. Legal certainty is threatened if the legislation changes rapidly, without involving all stakeholders. I would therefore read only one part of the commitment saying: "The quality of legislation remains poor, as the Resolution on normative activities is not respected." Last year, I called on the current coalition several times to take this resolution into account and to include civil society and expertise in the proposed legislative changes. Bob against the wall was everything. That is why we have laws that do not stop constitutional judgment and also the material consequences of bad marriage decisions. Today, both by the proponents and then by the SDS Group's opinion on what Europe believes about the state of justice in Slovenia. The report to Slovenia was said to be extremely critical. I read the report on the state of justice and then the other one where the recommendations were made. It is interesting to note the seventh recommendation that the State should upgrade its efforts so far to further reduce the duration of trials at first instance in civil and economic cases and the number of cases pending treatment, in particular in enforcement cases. That's all in the recommendations. But the recommendation begins with: "Reward the efforts so far..." It is not necessary to start ab of this, but it is necessary to continue and step up efforts to do what we all say — that judicial backlogs are unacceptable and that the state unfortunately has to pay fines also because of judicial backlogs or because of the long-term trial. So much for that. Now I'd like to say some more at the expense of quoting or taking matters into account. The proposers themselves requested a commitment. Now it's not a good commitment. They were talking about another commitment. That commitment should sound slightly different because it required the commitment of all entities in the judicial system to commit themselves to common needs and measures for the functioning of the rule of law. It seems to me that the commitment made by the three signatories is much more appropriate for citizens and citizens of the state of Slovenia. It should also read some information that has been distorted and that is also distorted in the request for an emergency meeting. I'll just give you one of them. It was said that we have an average of 71.2 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, the European Union average is 45. In this commitment, you will read, for example: ensuring the staffing conditions for the conduct of the courts on page 7, the total number of judges 983 – this is state 31. 12. - 47.7 per 100,000. But the goal is to be on Day 1. 3. 2014 45 per 100 000. Why do I pay special attention to this information and to this deception? Because whoever reads the material that came from the European Union and is called the Justice Scoreboard, he had so much patience to get to the end of this material, he will read the data gaps. It is particularly said that data collection makes it difficult to compare between individual national justice systems because monitoring is different because, for example, it should be borne in mind that these graphs to which some refer are from 2010, although this material bears the year 2013. Those who have so scandalized themselves over this data that is real, and so in this graph it says that at the time we were carrying out the Lukende programme, that it is not entirely clear what is the relationship between full-time judges and those who were only contractually bound, with different powers that do not have the status of a regular judge, etc. – you see, this is precisely the problem of taking what we need from the documents to prove some of these – you did not say that the same document also contains information about Slovenia, which shows that the situation is good – where information and communication technology data are dealt with, where we compare ourselves with most European countries. You didn't say that the situation in all the courts is not as worrying. This could also be offset by the information provided by Minister Plitschanic that the number of difficult cases has decreased by 2.2%, but it is necessary to know that the case of complicated cases has also decreased by 7.2%. What I'm saying is that when we create an image of things, statistics should also be properly interpreted. Now for what's bothering me the most. It is so flatly said that no public presentations have ever been proposed that would have been rejected. My colleague Brultz has already said in the replica, and I'm going to tell you a specific case that no one will say that I'm speaking. On 5 June 2007, the proposed public presentation of opinions on the proposal for a Service Act in the Slovenian Army was rejected. One of the several cases of rejected proposals for public presentation of opinions. Now, what should be said about what I think of myself on this request. I tried to be good-willed and to say to myself: the situation is not such as to say that the dissatisfaction of people is not justified, but when we go on this scale of negative judgments from not satisfactory, it is bad, to critical or "extremely critical", I now quote from the magnetogram, I wondered whether I could take this request as a voluntary request that would lead to an improvement of the situation. However, well-intention quickly led me to lose heart because I found that the authors of this requirement — by the way, the requirement is very short, but the proposed conclusions are one way or another to indicate the desire for a mirror or the suspension of two leading officials, who have a name and a last name, and I will not repeat them, because we all know which two officials are involved. When I wanted to take a look at this, I saw that if it were meant to really improve the situation in justice, then there would not be these very lustration messages in the request. In the assessment of the situation, it is written six times about the impact of the left political options, and even worse, it would be said that someone has been quoted. A predominantly left-wing government, mostly left-handed justice, has been used six times. If you go by memory to renew the names and surnames of the state attorneys and prosecutors and the Presidents of the Supreme Court – I do not know how some of them will be satisfied with the inclusion in the left political option. I think some people are very unhappy if they're given the adjective of the left. But I have to say this in particular. The title of the document is used for the "examination of the state of justice" but the exact title of the document is the EU Justice Scoreboard – the difference is essential. It seems like they are dealing with the situation of justice only in Slovenia, but in fact it is the whole European Union – also by finding that the recommendations and these findings are not a commitment, but are only conclusions that would lead to a better functioning of the judicial system. The crown of manipulation is a record on page three. The paragraph begins with the pronunciation and ends with the pronunciation – according to the rules of quoting, this text has to be a literal reference. This will show up. There are two colors. You can see it far. Let me tell you how this text is made up. It is taken up in the introduction to the document Overview of the state of justice in the EU. Here I helped myself with both colors, yellow and orange, and you see again how it's combined. The quotation shall begin with the fourth paragraph, where the footnote is part of the indication and then the text shall continue. Then the writer goes to the second paragraph of the introduction and thus changes the meaning of the text. But the bulk of manipulation is that it's all standing among the narrators, and that's what those who have so much to say at the expense of plagiarisms who are experts in plagiarisms and for many other things. I could tell you a lot more about how misleading this is. Proven deceiving! You take what's right, where it suits you, mark it as it is. It's not even plagiarism, it's stigmatism that someone hopes to offer such a text because it's offensive to the authors of the report from which the text was ripped out. Here I would remind you of something else – how easily it is written here that for both important officials it has been proved that before 1991 they were directly violating human rights and freedoms by their work in the judiciary and their decisions. Where was it proven when it was proved? The claims were made and it was not proven. It has not been proven, and here someone is just throwing aside claims on the principle that multiple lies will become evidence, become truth. That's the way I object. I think that democracy is rude and unacceptable, and those who predicted yesterday that we would again witness a bile debate that would not do any good. Only about what Mrs. Irgle said. For one thing, we have already said that it is not true that this is the first time that any public representation of opinions has been rejected. Let each one think his own way, but the call for a meeting of the National Assembly at the request of the SDS was sent on 31 May. The announcement that the meeting of the National Assembly — the 31st — would take place on Wednesday was, as it was told, but that the judgment would be announced on Wednesday the same day was said on June 3rd. There is a difference, the following dates are clear. I think it would be good if some unproven and unproven claims were denied. Now just for closure. What does the Commission intend to do when it finds that this data is difficult to compare and that there are gaps? A high-level conference is convened on 21 and 22 November, and judges from the Supreme and other courts, judicial authorities, representatives of legal professions and all stakeholders will discuss what needs to be rectified in the justice system in order to function better. I would like to see that, on the basis of such serious debates, we, too, accept the findings and malign the judiciary as a challenge and do not recognize that some of these things are in fact justified by the systematic or systematic demolition of the authority of the institutions of the rule of law. I strongly object to that. We Social Democrats have written in the electoral programme what these documents also say – that confidence in the judicial system must be restored and strengthened. This will certainly not be achieved in the way they do it in the request to convene this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u37	Yes, the following events are very clear. Above all, it is clear, Mrs Potrat, that you obviously do not recognise the words of the President of the country, your former President. I'm not gonna say you don't admit it. I'll say you stay behind. You stay back when you talk about the pressure on justice. Many no longer talk about it because they sobered up. You're still somewhere, your mental patterns belong somewhere in the past, and I respect them, because you have them. The sequence of events is also clear. We first make a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. After what week we get an answer from the Legal and Legal Service and the President that the conclusions are unconstitutional. Then without having my conclusions rectified and amended by the President of the National Assembly for June 3rd, he convenes a meeting of the National Assembly. Then, at the same time, the court’s decision on a known case falls. But that's probably a coincidence, isn't it? I believed in coincidences, and now, by no means, no more. That's one thing. Yes, Mrs Potter, it has been proven in the case of Mr Fischer and also in the case of Mr Masleš. We have adopted self-sustaining legislation in the field of justice. This legislation states that those judges who in the past have violated human rights and freedoms by their decisions must not and cannot be appointed for a permanent term of office. What happened to most of them? The judiciary did not comply with this provision and named everything in order. I have practically no case of not naming him for these legitimate reasons. Now let's see where the evidence is. At least there is evidence with Mr Fisher, and that is material evidence, one which Mrs Popot says cannot be changed. This is a physical document written on a typewriter at the time, now we're writing on computers. This is a judgment handed down to the person who placed the cross at the scene of the postwar beatings. That's material evidence. At the same time, that act constitutes a violation of human rights and freedoms and should not be appointed under a permanent mandate from the point of view of Law 91. You can't deny it. Mr Fisher spoke today on trial days and the last time on the committee about what I ordered him to do, that basket with a soldier or that foreign citizen who was killed at the border, and he was in sight. I didn't put that on him. I didn't know anything about this two years ago. How would you know? That's what the judges who were working with him at the time said. You believe the judges, and that's also proof that it's true, because the judges said it. As far as plagiarism is concerned. I don't see plagiarism here because nothing's added and nothing's taken away. In fact, I could have put twice in a noodle, which is what I'm verbally agreeing with you. If we were to re-arrange the noodles in the middle and start again with the noodles, and the quote. That'd be a good word for it. For me, what you're saying is a vocabulary mistake, not a plagiarism. Obviously, you don't separate vocabulary errors. You haven't been a professor for a long time, I know, but okay, man forgets that, too. The influence of left-wing policy options. Yes, I'll prove it to you. You've pressed for it. Let's do it in order. In 2011 we passed the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Until then, the State Prosecutor's Council was composed of five members. Four were appointed prosecutors among themselves, and one was appointed by a minister of the ranks of prosecutors. The ratio was 1 to 4 in favour of the profession! Then comes the left political option and the girdle, which you have voted for. Minister Zalar suggests: 4 are proposed by prosecutors, one minister from the ranks of prosecutors and four presidents of the Republic. The President of the Republic is not an independent political person, not an ex at all – he was indeed an extremely left-wing person. Today the Council of Justice is composed thus – 5 to 4 in favour of politics. Moreover, I have proposed to Dr Fisher that we amend this article of the law and give the right to appoint the State Prosecutor's Council as a full prosecutor, that I, too, give up my – as Minister. Do you know what the answer was? That the system worked well, he said. Of course it works well because it only drives on the left because the ratio is 5 to 4 in favour of the left policy option! You see, this is evidence of the impact of left-wing political options on the state of justice and nothing else. Desire for lustration – no way. The press asked me at the press conference if you wanted to achieve the withdrawal of Mr. Masles and Mr. Fisher, and I said no. The conclusions make it very clear what we want — what we are responsible for. So we can call someone. This is mainly the State Prosecutor's Council, and there is the Minister to propose a discharge. You could've done that otherwise. But it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Mr Gorenak, I am very pleased that you have returned to the old form of your negotiating arrogance and paternalism to Members. As for what I told you about quoting, I am very concerned because you are still a teacher at one of the higher education institutions, how you monitor quoting in the products of your students, if you claim that the quoted quotation is not quoting, but it is creating a new text due to the rolling of text. I'm very concerned about how your students will be able to prove respect for intellectual property. That's not a spelling question. The ways of quoting are different, and you obviously don't know that. I would advise you to go look at at at least three internationally recognized ways of quoting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u40	Now we will move on from the controversy to the debate. Mag. Katarina Hochevar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u41	Thank you very much for your words, and I welcome all of you here! The President of the Supreme Court, Mr Branko Masleša, said in an interview days ago: "The judiciary needs peace, a stable environment, it cannot bear constant excitement." He's probably right, but we live in a world of constant change. In Slovenia, different stakeholders would like a stable environment, especially the economy needs it in these times, but the fact is that the judiciary will also have to adapt to social change and must not be immune to it. In Slovenia, for too long we didn't want to admit that our justice is not optimal. Then came a number of judgments before the European Court of Human Rights, where we were convicted of a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Ombudsman's Institute also receives the most complaints every year in the field of justice and judicial backlogs. In 2012, for example, this institution received as many as 460 initiatives in relation to judicial backlogs and 473 in the year before. The backlogs are a problem today. In Slovenia, for example, the first stage of justice lasts for 431 days and in Austria 129, even less in the Czech Republic. There's evidence that something's wrong. However, I believe that the crucial steps and important movements in the judiciary are being done by the Minister of the Civil Service List, Dr. Senko Plitčanič. I think it is a good prospect for us to finally make order in our justice, and I hope that politics will have no problem with this. In doing so, I am primarily referring to the agreement of the undertaking which was signed in these days. It is important that this commitment requires both a list of the situation and an agreement on the objectives. By describing the situation in justice in the first part of this commitment, I understand that justice is only aware of problems in its own kind and that agreement on objectives is one agreement or solution for each to assume its part of the responsibility to improve the current situation. I believe that until the courts have resolved civil and criminal matters within a few months, the judiciary will be at the mercy of the development of our country. The amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service follow these objectives, both following efficiency, increased control and increased accountability. The change itself has already been well described by my colleague Braniselj, so I will not touch them in this place, but I would mention that we have some good practices in the court. For example, the Triaž project, which will now be transferred to all courts as a good practice of the Ljubljana District Court, means a good promise to improve the functioning of the courts. For example, in 2011, this section managed to resolve 40% more cases than in the previous year. I think that in 22 years we have learned that the construction of the rule of law takes time. The first step towards the rule of law is that those who hold key positions of power in this country lead the country with their positive example and in all branches of government – judicial, executive and legislative. If those who bear these official functions suggest that the rule of law does not have to be respected by them, of course, the people will not follow. The problem is also our values; it is appreciated that those who actually bend and adapt to their needs – we say at home that they are found. And on the court, which is the last defender of the law, stands and falls the state of law. The situation will also improve when, despite all the systemic solutions, our judges and prosecutors will carry out their ministry as a mission. I believe that the legislative solutions that will follow those that we already have on the table will be such that in our justice they will increase efficiency, transparency and bring what is most important: such justice, which will enjoy a sufficiently high degree of confidence in our citizens. This will be the right step towards the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much, mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Now for the word, I invite the mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u43	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! We are probably all a little tired of it all, but I still think today's debate will contribute to some progress and improvement in the situation in the Slovenian judiciary. However, it is not a matter of wasting hours and hours to compete over who will be able to tell someone more foolishly. I am trying to work together to find solutions for a better position and for better work of the judiciary. The constitution that we all received at the beginning of your term, you probably have everyone on you. If you look at Article 3 of the Constitution there, you will be able to read and see that in Slovenia the authority is divided into three branches: the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power. As regards the two branches of government, when we are talking about legislative and executive, practically everything is allowed for these two branches of government. They can be criticized, they can be underestimated, we can be photographed and constantly seen in the public eye. I don't have any problem with that if we're under public scrutiny. But one branch of power is still privileged. She doesn't have to check her trust every four years, she doesn't have to explain who they're meeting, who they're having lunch with, and she doesn't even have to explain what they're doing, and even more, their work should not be criticized or criticized. So that no one will say that I am slandering or slandering judges, I am trying to understand these differences between the various branches of government, that there are, however, certain differences. If, for the legislative and executive branches of power, it is particularly important, and then these two branches of government are judged, what we promise and what we do in the end, it should be crucial or important for the judiciary to judge whether they act fairly and in accordance with the law. I definitely cannot agree with those who say we must not be critical of the judiciary. Just because you're critical doesn't mean you're offensive doesn't mean you're disrespectful. If you look at the practice in other Western European countries, you will see a series of cases where judgments, sentences and expert opinion are dealt with in detail and assessed by the professional public as to whether they are true, correct and in which direction they might go. If we allow the judicial branch of power to become untouchable, we certainly cannot expect any changes because it seems that the judiciary simply does not see its problems. Because if they did, I can’t imagine, for example, articles appearing in daily newspapers, how the judge failed to control bankruptcys and even progressed. Just one brief paragraph I would like to read to you because I think it is a very eloquent witness to the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, speaking of the fact that the higher court in the official control of District Judge Jelko Rozman found that the insolvency was under-supervised by the administrators. Nevertheless, the personal council has assessed that it meets all the conditions for advancement. On such news, one wonders who is normal here now and if everything is as good as it says. What did the present government and the judicial branch of power promise us with this glorious agreement, which has been mentioned and presented many times today? They said they would shorten the trial time, provide more personnel, more money, and set up an interdepartmental group looking for transitional solutions. I would say, nothing new – we have heard all of this many times, and the question is, by 1 June next year, we will see it too. I hope that these things, or those words, will still be gilded and that, after all, there will be some effect on these promises and that this is not just a pianist trick, there will be an opportunity that, when there is a debate on the state of the judiciary, the President of the Government and the chief heads of the judiciary will take pictures and promise something that will happen in a year and then there will be nothing left of it. Of course, all three branches of government need to be monitored and balanced. We certainly do not witness these things today, so we need to look for solutions to improve the situation. I don't think it makes sense for me to continue because I see that the attention and listening to Members is at a high level. What I had to say, I said and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. Now I give the word to Dr. Joseph Kunic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u45	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Not long ago, I ordered one service, a few hundred euros, and they didn't do it, and they laughed at me and told me to sue them. Peace — and this was a regular practice. I've questioned the reputation of our justice, I've looked around a little bit, and in fact, I've found that the general opinion is such that it doesn't have a great reputation, and also the statistics that some are doing show this. It seems that it does not perform fully, to a satisfactory extent, the task assigned to it. However, as long as I have talked to people who get to know each other a little bit, there seems to be little to do with large cuts, with great criticisms. It's a lot of details that people detect. Why is it that three orders are needed for a 1,000-euro issue and there is likely to be a fourth claim? Why can some avoid ordering a small operation on the same day and then repeat the same procedure with a small operation and go into colonoscopy for the third time for the fourth time, but I don't know. No problem. Someone can avoid it that way. What's the problem with the fever? Trust is also somewhat shaken in some small places where there is a district, a district and a higher court in the same place, and everyone knows each other in one way or another, let alone the people working in this area. Why is lying before a court not punished with the greatest sharpness? Why does execution work so slowly? Why do they do family things when it comes to kids? Why is he acting so slowly? Why do higher and higher courts return and judge many times – they also tell me that, and here I find Dr. Gorenak somewhat imprecise when he said that the prosecutors write so many and so many cases abroad. Not entirely true, their assistants write them, but they write them themselves, so they are there, not always, even cheaper. Why does judgment sometimes have to be as long as a novel, 70 pages? All of this and a lot of other questions. At the same time, some view the executive and legislative powers to regulate this area. It is generally right to regulate it, but it is not possible to get involved in specific matters. This branch must remain independent and, above all, must resolve its own shortcomings. I welcome this act, which defines the government's commitment and the commitment of the judiciary to improve, and I hope that we will see the report next year and that this activity will continue to be upgraded and improved. It would be weak to put pressure on specific decisions by the executive branch. It would be even worse if you were acting on the side of the legislation. But it's very bad if it's done off the street. However, I find it extremely bad if this pressure is being exerted from the streets by means of some political option, with what symbolic or actual support. This week, we were visited by an important American delegation, a delegation of the United States National Intelligence Council. We were invited by several Members to discuss them on the Slovenian side. Those who were invited and are members of the SDS — unfortunately, at the same time — went to court and were not present at this important meeting. I don't think that's the kind of thing that should happen. One of the greatest values of democracy, when introduced, was the independent judiciary and exerting pressure and supporting the streets by those operating in the temple of democracy, but I find it unacceptable. Whether we are for the street and not for the rule of law – that is why the judiciary has been brought in, that there is no street – or whether we are for the operation of Parliament. I hope and believe that we will not give support to the streets, to pressure the judiciary with the help of the streets, but that we will operate in this house in accordance with democratic principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much. And I give my word to Mr. Tomaž Lisco.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u47	Thank you. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary of State, President, colleagues and colleagues! I must say, today is the right day for discussion. In the morning I was informed that the days of the Slovenian judiciary were going on in Portorož and I must say that when I saw who was there, I thought it was the elite who was talking about the independence of the judiciary. Why? There were the President of the Supreme Court, also known from past non-democratic regimes, then he was the leader of the largest government party in Parliament and a columnist who writes as if we were still in 1989. So they were the ones who spoke out loud about how the judiciary or justice must be independent, and look at the fraction, it seems to me that they are somehow dependent on each other. They say that policy must be silent or at least part of the policy and that the other part of the policy can cooperate with the judiciary. And here we have the media who welcome this cheerfully. That is why I am surprised to all those who speak of the independence of the judiciary, as they also demonstrate how the rule of law takes place after two rails, that is, the track on ours or yours, the right or the wrong and on the chosen or the unchosen. All of these serve to see how the judiciary is infallible, how the judiciary is independent, and how the judiciary must be untouchable, and how often the ignorance and omission of the profession, the judiciary, are manifest. This is also illustrated by examples of European reports, GRECO reports, which well show the relations of justice in our country and certain European developed countries in this area. I have to say that I believe that all the judges and all the prosecutors are not the same, but the most interesting thing is that all those who fail in this judicial system point out that there are no mistakes. One day today, there was a feeling that the SDS had woken up in the last two months, and this once points to justice as to how everything was wrong. It's not true at all. I believe that a member of the SD will not read our resolutions and programmes from the previous century, but our positions are exactly the same as we were then, whether we are in opposition or in coalition, we do not change our positions, but we do have our positions, which we hold firmly, we want to take them to the constitution, but unfortunately all those working for the independence of the judiciary do not. As early as 2010, we proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with a similar subject. I must say, the former minister rejected it with disgust. This minister, by acting both by appointing individuals for important functions and individual legal proposals and by individual practices, in particular how he behaved with regard to the Lukend project, has shown that he does not care much about Slovenian justice, that he cares more about his friends from the judiciary, and this is also due to where we are today. The situation is quite alarming, even more alarming after 2010, and personally I do not think that this commitment signed yesterday between the Government and the judiciary will bring anything new. I think it's just some kind of media effect. I don't think it would have happened if the President of the Government had been someone else, former Prime Minister of the Government, because then the judiciary would have shouted with all the strong that this commitment should not have been made, because then the executive branch would have been involved in the judiciary. Therefore, I must say that I agree with perhaps a slightly different speech that was in Portorož today, when the President of the Council of Justice said in all these commitments and legislative proposals that he felt that the takingover of the judiciary by the executive branch of power was taking place. I must say that with what I agree on – we will be able to discuss future works in a few years, but I do not think anything will be done. I think that we will still be separated, that in one year we will continue to talk about how we have the rule of law to protect the right and the rightful and the rightful and the rightful rule for ordinary people and for the internal enemies to be rid of. I really wonder when we will allow such a situation to continue in the Slovenian judiciary. Obviously, it will also be necessary in this area to wake us up and tell us what justice must be like in a normal European democratic country, and with all the examples that are set in these times, obviously we are not yet. I hope one day we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, then Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u49	A few more minutes ago, we heard that SDS colleagues were wondering where the pressure was coming from, where we see the pressure on justice. The last debate was a typical case of pressure on justice. I'm sorry, I can't agree by any means to listen to the constant specific names of individuals from this judiciary who have been given your marks for years and years; this one is different, one is a criminal, one was a co-worker of the previous regime and all. These are just labels and labels of people who are not according to your pattern, which are not your political options. Then, of course, justice is bad and terrible. We wouldn't even have these sessions today if we didn't have a trial against your president, and we wouldn't have one. Then it came to pass that this meeting had been convened and should have taken place on the very day the judgment was delivered. I will never tell myself whether the court has ruled right or wrong in a judgment of which I am not a part personally. I could say that I had already been involved in a car accident and, in my opinion, the judge had handed down the wrong verdict in the end. Nothing terrible, little thing, but that's why I never attacked this judge. Here's the difference between you and then between us. I think there's been a lot of trouble in the judiciary. More than 70% of people think it's hugely wrong. Talking about judicial errors today is legitimate, I would say, but not in this way – that is the difference. I agree with those who believe that one such debate would be led when we have a concrete, long analysis of all mistakes and proposals for solutions, which is our task. The task of Members and the executive branch with which we cooperate is to resolve matters. I think things are starting to get better. Let's say this paper we got today, this commitment, I wouldn't have judged in advance that this was a bad thing. I'm concerned that some in the judiciary think it's pressure. I agree with some, my colleague Tonin, who said that sometimes members of the judiciary feel overly independent. No, it's a mistake to think there can be no control over them. We just must not get involved in specific matters, in the content, in the judgements, in the verdicts. I also do not understand how a record can appear on the political party's website, even the sound record of the verdict. Listen, where are we? And then my friend Tanka says that those are the standards that Belarus would love to take. These are the standards that Belarus would be happy to adopt! Ask your colleagues in the European Parliament or in the European People's Party whether it is normal for a political party in Western Europe to do so. No, this is done by individuals from a party where democracy has not yet been developed, and obviously democracy is not developed in us. When we speak of mistakes, of cesovo solidarity, as we have heard today – this is all true, but this is not just the case with the judiciary. This also applies to health care and education and other parts of public and state administration. I think today is really the time, as Minister Plitchanic said before, for us to get together. This meeting will not produce any concrete results today, but it may give rise to a raised awareness that we really need to change something in these areas and help organise the judiciary, in the better legislation we are responsible for here, we are the ones, and call our colleagues from the judiciary to tell us where they feel the greatest problems. In this I see the sense of cooperation between the two branches of our authority. Let them tell us. I would say that we should take a different approach to the functioning of Parliament and politics, no more talking and just condemning. Let's talk some more. I think that several times we discuss individual issues in Parliament very much like Members of very different parties. Then, because one is more sensitive to this or the other, we start fighting and fighting. There's no real need for that. I will never applaud if someone is convicted, even if it is my political opponent. I don't know whether he deserves it or not, because I don't know all the facts, and I understand you're hurt, just like we were hurt when our previous president received corruption. But if it is true that someone has committed any wrong act, it must be judged by the court, without any pressure, without any pressure. If someone didn't find their satisfaction at the first stage, then go to the second level. Let us leave political affairs alone, let policy not get involved, whether it is the President of the State, the President of the political party, the Member of Parliament or anyone. We are equal to all other citizens before the law, and let us remember that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u51	Thank you. I would respond to the exercise of the precursor to the pressure on justice that I previously carried out and how I said everything was bad. In my implementation, I have only mentioned the former Minister of Justice and his bad work is proved by the European reports of GRECO. I can't say otherwise, as if the work was bad if the European documents prove it. On the other hand, it was said that I was carrying out some of the labels, and then the Member of Parliament stopped. She didn't prove it with anything, she didn't tell me where I was lying, what I said wrong, I wasn't attacking anyone. I apologize for the messages, but I wasn't on trial today, and someone else was on trial days. As far as everything's bad, I explicitly said that they're not all the same, but that's the problem, because it's the most loud system in this justice system that is the ones that are the most out of the system. These consecrated are fortunate to be in the highest judicial and prosecutorial functions, hiding behind their inviolability and independence. True, I was a little nervous about this mucking, but as in the past, nothing has been proved.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, did you want a word? Here you go. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u53	I have a procedural proposal. Madam President, I have not yet discussed today, but I find that I have already been misunderstood. That's a fact that I have to challenge, and I'm just going to remind you of some other facts. Mr Janša did not record the verdict, but his defense in court – this is a mistake. Secondly, the fact that in such a way, undetermined on an undetermined date at an undetermined time in an undetermined communication manner and place — this is for patenting in Belarus — can be condemned by anyone. At times, we have been convicted of verbal delinquency, and today some are convicted of alleged mental delinquency, and this is an abuse of justice for various purposes. However, I would like to remind you that, because of such incorrect statements that appear in the debates, please also warn the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much. And Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I will make one procedural proposal, which will go in the direction of stopping this meeting, going to the vote and going home to our families, because we will do more than this room. When he raised Jože's hand, I thought he would suggest that the debates went across all borders, that we go to the vote, because we have been discussing in these two, three days now more than 12 hours on one and the same subject, and we are bickering, bickering, bickering and always coming in the same direction. So I propose a procedural proposal that we stop discussing today, that we go to the vote, and that, my dears, we do the best for justice, for our people. We must not afford that the feelings of people who are already so hot continue to be poured into the fire. I propose that we vote on the conclusions and move towards home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. If they take it into account and limit themselves in their deliberations, they will be judged. Let's move on to the debate. Here you go, Mr. Puksich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I hope that you have calmed your passion, because if such a change could be made in the course of the session, then the parliamentary majority could interrupt whenever you want, but I tell you that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and whether we get it on the committee to discuss it or not. Well, let me get to the topic that's on the agenda today. Many times in these days, as well as in these years, I am in politics: we restore confidence in the judicial system, the defence, the prosecution and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, in here, let's ask ourselves what we're going to do, because we're not judges and prosecutors to restore people's confidence in politics, in the political system, in the work of the National Assembly. That's our permanent question. If, in the past, politics and the National Assembly were less involved in the work of the judiciary and the prosecution, things would probably be significantly different and better going forward, probably today we would not have as much social space as we have, and the countries in dispersion. I will be very specific, my part of the debate will be somewhat linked to history, because I have been here for many years and the assessment of today's time and actions that are happening. I always like it very concrete and exact, and this time it will. I have before me a copy of the 1993 D.A.'s statement: "Second indictment, the Financial Director opened two black accounts at the Zveza banka in Celovac, namely 32149 Elan and 34314 [[Incomprehensible]] and carried out traffic through them, amounting to 1 billion 900 million shillings from the end of 1988 to May 1990." That was 271 million in marks back then. A year later, on March 14, 1991, Elan went bankrupt because these two gentlemen, both financial and general directors, brought him to bankruptcy because the company was exhibiting 415 million marks of loss. That means: a little over half a year before this half-time, you transport to two black accounts and then you take the company to bankruptcy. By the way, you're doing something else for yourself. On 20 September 1985, Director TOZD Sskiči authorised the transfer or payment of the bankruptcy mass of the failed company Elan in Sweden of 35,000 marks, which took place through Finland, and was fully retained by the then director of Elan's company in Sweden. That was Uroš Aljančič. Prior to the public auction on the sale of Elan to representatives of Ljubljana and Gorenjska Banka, the bankruptcy manager Elan Begunje offered 2 million mark bribes in order to ignore the interests of the bank, which was also interested in the independent purchase of Elan, and that the bank would take part in the purchase together with Komel d. o. o. Fugitives. Finally, on 14 September 1992, the Zelovec Banks Association of Elan's booklet, where a deposit of 3 million 500 thousand shillings was deposited, raised the total amount together with interest at a total amount of 571 thousand, in order to cover the loan that the borrower did not pay off, annuity. He was a creditor, now you can guess, I read that name twice, the third time he likes – Uroš Aljančič. So, half a million marks. That's not enough, it's 250,000 euros if we're hearing today that some have corrupted things in millions of euros. Well, that's what happened in Elan. You will say what the judiciary has to do with this — nothing at this point. Prosecutors wrote charges, criminals found out, the Social Accounting Service helped and so on. Then there was a judgment, and these two non-convictions were also sentenced, I think, to about five years in prison. What happened? This was the judgment handed down in March 1994 — the judgment was not written. Who should have written it? Judge Šubic, V.D., Acting Officer of the Court of Krajina. He didn't write that. Why didn't he write it? 14 days, or how much time it has. He didn't write for eight months until the end of 1994. At that time, exactly what I said before – let us restore confidence in politics and the National Assembly, our work – here in this house, at that time I have not been involved, politics is preparing a change in the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which has been requalified in six years. The judgment was written in December, and these two boys complained and did not end up alone for one second. Only one information – Uroš Aljančič, 571 thousand marks and 29 such complaints. So there is no confidence in the judiciary and this is where it started, and after 2000, the potential function continued. Well, then what happens? This judge leaves the court and makes an application for a lawyer. The Bar found that Anton Šubic was doing his job when he was a judge, honest and conscientious. Fair and fair! That's the whole record. Then it happened in 2000 when we had an investigative commission from 1996 to 2000 on damage to social property. I ran a commission that then took it seriously and filed an indictment against Anton Šubica against the judge, why he didn't write a verdict in eight months. Through the Ministry of the Interior and so on, we have asked the Prosecutor to lead this way. From Minister Borut Shuklet we are 5. Seven. 1999 received a letter: "In its reply of 3 May 1999, the Prosecutor stated, inter alia, that, by the nature of the declaration, it would be possible to choose between the judicial staff as well as between Šubič's neighbours and friends. On the other hand, he specifically warned that such a search for data would constitute a very slippery area." Look, even to Minister Shuklet, it must have seemed strange, and he wrote it in big letters in his phrasing. "In the State Prosecutor's view, in the case at hand, it is a very important question whether there are grounds for suspicion or whether circumstances are being sought to reach them." This is the problem, it began and continued in hundreds of cases. By the way, the Tama Rehabilitation Act, nine billion tolars, was passed in this house – a little less than half a billion euros. Has anyone been responsible for this? Where did that money go? Nothing. The findings were made, accepted in the National Assembly and wanted to mediate these things to change, but they did not. Even more so, for the final report of this Commission of Inquiry, the National Assembly, at its last meeting, voted to withdraw it from consideration. To remind you of a slightly younger matter, the matter of Satex, which we know is obsolete. The former Constitutional Judge said the Satex case was a fiasco of the entire judiciary. The then Minister of Justice, Mr. Zalar, said that Satex was catastrophic. This happened in 2010, today we are 2013. In 2013 we get on the table a so-called commitment made by the President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice and the President of the Government. A commitment! They all swore in the National Assembly: Ministers, President of the Government and Chief Justice. What have they been doing so far? What commitment? Who's the commitment? Why? So far, they have not been able to work honestly because of this commitment. To whose advantage? Is this another farce that we are considering again in 2013? I myself asked the minister, former Prime Minister Janez Janša and both ministers in the government – when we were – Gorenak and Plitčanič, when and how much money was stolen from the New Credit Bank and came back to create better conditions in Slovenian hospitals. I'm about to ask you how much of that money came up. This covenant has come about — why? Is it because Hilda brought you together?Oh, my God! Is that why? Something had to happen, and if so, then Hilda However, if this case makes matters different, some recognition should be given. I'm not going to say state recognition, but community service — I don't know what you're going to do if that's it. In short, the task of the court, the prosecutions, is to work fairly and properly with the legislation, but there are too many cases when this does not happen. Today we want to show that they're guilty of everything, but it's not true. They're guilty of political interference. Someone said today that before marriage we were all the same, but I wrote to myself, "Yes, if he doesn't touch individual lobbying. But if he touches the individual lobby and they're strong enough and they have enough money, then we change the law. That's exactly what we're preparing for these lobbies." No one in this world will convince me that it took eight years for the Mirage case to be decided by the end of 2005. As a judge, we don't have anything to say, but I expect the judiciary to do everything to figure out why it took so long and whether it's who, because it is [[Incomprehensible]] Because it didn't happen, he got rich. 8 million euro – do you know what 8 million euro means? Please tell me 10 Slovenian companies that had 8 million euros in profits. Colleagues and colleagues, they're gone! A company with one employee or how much I read in the media. Courts are judged after eight years. What did politics have here? Apparently she had – politics signed a treaty, a secret contract without a call for tender and without everything. 8 Million — Who Earned All Here? How many election campaigns have someone paid and how many times have they gone? Colleagues, at this point, we need to ask ourselves, and as politicians, we need to ask the courts to work, and legislation must be made so that within the courts those who know each other have independent control over those who do not work. It can't be a case – formerly, colleague Gorenak talked about the number of prosecutors per population, the number of judges and so on, and a colleague from the National Gazette talked about the number of days needed in Slovenia – 400 and something, and in Austria 100 and something. If I make a reverse ratio; the number of prosecutors and judges per population is lower, the time of judgment is shorter. Something has to be done here. If you don't tell me I'm history itself, let's touch today. I take into my hands a document that is not an opposition document, but from the official logs of the Ministry of Finance, and I find or read that a judge from a certain place is dealing with someone who is in criminal prosecution who has so many and so many specific cases. In order to determine later that this judge is co-founder of several companies registered here and elsewhere. Here, the judicial branch must find out for itself whether this is admissible at all and if such a judge is to be to anyone in this connection where he judges the judgment. How will he judge? Eight years! Why? Because the cost is going to be higher because the country is going to get as screwed up as possible. As I continue reading, I find that someone in the tax investigation has reported only EUR 50,000 for a period of four years, and it has been found that they have spent more than EUR 1 million in cash and payment cards and so on for the same period. More than a million euros, and the taxpayer has reported 50,000! The document comes from September 2011 and today we are almost September 2013. My dear judicial branch of power, prosecutors and so on, where is the case? However, if I continue to follow the documents, I find that this tax administration, which has found and recorded this, has decided to do tax inspection. Do you know what happened? They took her away and transferred her to each other's tax administration! How can we trust our organs? In specific cases, colleagues and colleagues, we will not be allowed to see this and we will be able to see it because people, not us and not the judiciary, can no longer trust us. Since we like populism both in politics and in the judiciary, like performances and so on, – I can say this in particular – in one case in Maribor 117 criminals were brought by helicopters, television cameras, but the extra-deputy three-member Senate dismissed the Bird House case; there was no crime, there was no crime, there was no crime, it was rejected. On the one hand, the Bird House, on the other hand, millions of euros. In two years, nothing happens. It is right that this came to court in a very short period of time, and so is the case. Nothing here, nothing on the other side. Where are the cases concerning the allegations made by former Director Mercator? I know that the charges against Zoran Jankovic were filed when he was Director of Mercator. What is happening to the complaint made by the Commission of Inquiry regarding the receipt of donations? Zoran Jankovic admitted to the commission of inquiry, he said, donations ranging from 100 to 500 000 euros. Is that normal? What's behind it? What kind of judges are involved in setting up companies with what connections up and down? You're in power, you're responsible, and nothing happens! Where are you prosecutors? Where's the trial? They're judging someone. It's a judgment like it is to make a suggestion. And the other says publicly that he's gonna hire someone, and everything's O.K., but I think the other one's more normal. I think things got out of hand. And that's it. You know, when we're working in this country on tax administrations, they're going to be getting a home notice that a financial settlement is being made for [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm afraid I can't say hello to the government representatives because they're not here. I would like to begin with a matter which I find unheard of that the coalition members speak and protest against people being allowed to demonstrate, protest. Do you want totalitarian times when that wasn't right? Are you aware that this is a direct insult to the Slovenians who demonstrated against the mounted process within the framework of the Bavarian Committee? This is actually the symbolic foundation of our country. You're attacking your own country. Do you, gentlemen - I feel Mr Kunič – do you not know how the Kurds demonstrated when Öcalan was sentenced to death in Turkish prisons? We'd have eliminated him by now if there weren't for these protests because there's been a murder. Or how was Tymoshenko's? In Slovenia you want totalitarian times. In fact, the spirit of Prosecutor Visinsky has been creeping into this country, for in recent times it seems that the trials have been assembled, because judges or judges judge exactly as the prosecutor said. This is unusual in democratic countries. The sentence imposed is normally 98 % lower than the prosecutor's request. In recent times, however, we have seen that the verdict has been taken elsewhere and that the processes are being carried out in the course of totalitarian processes. In such a country, I must agree with lawyer Cheferin, one of the most well-known lawyers who says that everyone in this country can fight such a trial. Everyone! Ladies and gentlemen! We Slovenians must fear what the judiciary has not done in the past. I've already said it before today, and I'll say it again. If the Slovenian judiciary and law enforcement authorities were to react, judge and condemn, at the right time, at the time of the tycoon takeovers, that someone who had set up shares of the company when he was not yet owner, which is a couple of excellence illegal – despite the fact that the LDS had decided and told the directors to do so, the judiciary could then cut the chain of evil. Now we're dug up. The Criminal Court in Slovenian banks has not filed a single complaint, has not yet processed any matters. And here's the reason we're being robbed, too, that we're in front of bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, a verdict or a robbery compensation in the Miraga case is a general disgrace. They say that the judiciary has only executed a contract, if it is a treaty, the Roman River must be respected. However, I have made sure that already in our criminal legislation there is an illegal secret as a criminal matter, and this treaty is, by European standards, an illegal secret. They made it a secret, they made it a secret, it wasn't a system-wide planned corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary should know that it has an instrument to make an illegal secret, such a treaty, which is secret, so that corruption can be carried out, declared null and void, and has participated in the summit of the then LDS authorities, and this will need to be investigated. Some even defend that. Against this, it is necessary to protest and commend those who have annulled such a harmful treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be a good thing that the case happened, however. After some discussions, it seems that it was planned that it might have been planned without Hilde's knowledge, however, because Mrs Porotat said that those policies that point to mistakes and criticism are in short supply to the efficiency of the judiciary. With this, she must have meant Minister Plicanič, who really talked about mistakes, has consistently warned and is now being attacked by Mrs Porotat. Apparently, and other debates were such that you were planning to liquidate Plitchanic in order to have to step down, it just seemed a little tricky to you. The Slovenian public has cooled down, she has regained consciousness, and now you are trying to recover with unacceptable problems, which must not be – there must be no criticism. Such things will have to be criticized or critically judged. The double criteria are still in Slovenian justice. Or someone hopes to claim, but I am not defending either, that Kangler was treated the same way as Jankovic, even though what Kangler did was the thousands of Jankovics. The criminal acts of a thousand, if it is, but there are cases in the Mercator Court of Directorship, when he gave the Maxim market protection for a million euros to those who can't protect themselves when the deal was under the table. It's not here yet, it's successfully blocked and it's going to wear off. Or that Tobutov is in the same situation as Zidar. At the time, Mr Penko had already defended the building, working for him as a lawyer. Think about it! Nothing happened. Nothing was possible, that was all legal. Ladies and gentlemen, hours and hours can still be said to draw attention to certain things. I hope that from these events, which have mostly shown the poor image of our judiciary, we will take some synergy and I hope that the Minister will carry out the reform he promised us earlier when we were in the coalition. But I see considerable contradictions between you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk is next in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Members and Members of Parliament have also received the commitment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to improve the situation in the judiciary. I think that this commitment is a good document, and I am, in part, skeptical only about a rather large package of legislative changes. In fact, it is a matter of amending eight documents in this area, eight laws in this area. These legislative changes to be made by the Government also mean that they will come to the National Assembly and that we will have additional work, but I do not know if the problems in the judiciary are due to a lack of legislation. In my view, the lack of or superficial application of existing laws and legal standards is previously at fault, and I would therefore appeal that the legislation adopted is strictly applied. On this occasion, I would also appeal to citizens and citizens that, if you are in a dispute, you should prefer to use the institute for out-of-court settlement of disputes. Your costs will be lower, costs will be lower because of the trial, that I do not say how much you can save on legal costs, on legal services, and the courts themselves will be burdened with work. With regard to yesterday's judgment, at the end of my brief debate on the Patria affair, I can only reiterate the position of the President of the Republic, who said that we must, as a democratic and legal state wishing to raise a legal culture, procedural decisions or those that will be final, adopt and respect them, whether we agree with them or not. I think we should all have this in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much. You have a replica. As a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I haven't spoken to him in a while, but Mr Bevk, who spoke about this agreement, is now in front of me. I see nothing wrong with the agreement, but I doubt the great benefits. We have a problem with the money. The agreement also discusses money and a larger number of judges. If we think of just one thing, that today we have 50 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, that the Austrians have 22, that the Italians have 11 and the Germans 24 — it is said that we already have more judges than we say in Germany today, and the agreement now foresees an even greater number of judges. Here's the problem for me. The agreement also provides for more resources, and here too is the problem for me. Today, as I said, ladies, 86 and a few euros, while the EU average is 45 euros. Here's the problem. The agreement provides for some education, training of judges and so on. Training is always a useful thing. Education is always a useful thing. But one would expect that after a legal college and after a judicial examination, which usually goes to the expense of the state, then the judges would put some more of their money into education. So now we're going to put the state money back in education. I fear that the commitments made by the Minister are fixed, and this is not a criticism of the agreement. The money will be given, it is a fact, the school will, a larger number of judges will be and more resources will be available for their operation. And they said some numbers that they were supposed to reach in June next year, but I'm afraid the problem is that there's nothing about what happens if there isn't. If our judicial backlog increases by the next year, what then? I would expect someone on the court side to say that this is a fact, this is a fact, that we will achieve, take some responsibility and say that if he doesn't do it in one year, he will leave the position of someone who is capable of doing it. Here's the dilemma, and here's the problem. Maybe a few more words, I've already talked about it, and I feel like we still need to talk about it. All too often, even though today is significantly less than in previous years, there in 2008, just since 2009, I have heard debates about the independence of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, although the situation is getting better today, at least in politics and judging from the debate in this Chamber – the SD is also talking about responsibility at the same time – but once again I stress what seems important to me. The independence of the judicial branch of power – of course, yes. Yeah, how's that? It can't be any different. But also the autonomy of Members – yes, absolutely. Will it be the government's independence? Yeah. There must be no dilemma here. But the power of the Government is to propose laws and there is no God over it anymore who can say what laws he must propose, our independence is guaranteed in the constitution – we decide what laws we will adopt, sometimes we are satisfied with ourselves, sometimes not – and independence must also be in the judiciary. But from the point of view of the trial! But no one can before this session has been heard many times by you criticizing the judiciary, shouting through the judiciary, putting it into nothing and so forth. [[...]] Let us raise ourselves up a little, but as Members we are the worst in this country. We can be sailed by everyone, and we are the lowest in all our research, but in reality, from the point of view of the legislative branch of power, there is no one over us. So if we transfer this matter to the judicial branch of power and autonomy in judgment and decision-making – yes, absolutely. But all that Mr Pukšič mentioned earlier, which many others mentioned, does not go into autonomy. If they belong to a person for six years because he bought a bicycle from a man who stole a bike and did not know that the bike was stolen — that is, the case from the trunk, six years. In the end, he is sentenced to six months of probation and takes six years to do so. That's impossible. I'm sure the man wrote you something on the e-mail, too. Not to mention all the other stuff. Foreignly – this is where I need to be stressed, so I always repeat this matter. We must guarantee a separate judicial branch of power from the point of view of the trial, but there is nothing wrong with the protests before the court. They are protesting in front of parliament, we have to adopt laws, and they yell at us and I don't know what. The judges will get used to it. In what ways, though, are they different from us in terms of independence? There's no difference. If we have some demonstrations in front of Parliament and are still bound to adopt a law, then the judges will also be tried by a number of people before a court. It's nothing wrong. And there is nothing wrong with having an extremely negative opinion on the judgment, as in the Mirage case. But it would be very wrong to say as a politician: Minister Virant, do not respect the judgment of the court and do not pay eight million. That would be wrong! However, it is not wrong to point out that the Miraga case is seriously wrong, according to my assessment, the trial is wrong. If someone gets eight million – I don't know how many companies in Slovenia that have made so much profit. That company didn't even make labels to make us clear. That company didn't make stickers, all the stickers were made in Cetis Celje. It's complete! But because someone with a last name and a name and documentation came up with who it was, they said they'd get the deal in Cetis if the personalization was in Mirage, but they'd sell it every half. That's where the crime started. From this point of view, here's the problem that we just don't know how to separate things. In foreign courts, they criticize as much as you want – and what then, because they also criticize us. What would be good is that this session is already about to be seized today, but at least the legislation in the area of responsibility is amended. I have already pointed out that our legislation, based on the Constitution and immunity, and in the field of justice, guarantees immunity for judges. But be careful, under this immunity he's doing everything, otherwise they have disciplinary procedures. Earlier on the committee, the judge explained that this year four of them had left the judiciary — you have to understand that, they went to lawyers. The foreign doesn't know the system "today you're a judge, then you get caught doing something wrong and you go between lawyers and tomorrow you're a lawyer." There's no such thing abroad. The ban on the management of a lawyer’s profession in some countries – that we are clear, not everywhere, that someone will not find any Portugal now and will say that it is allowed there. In the countries that I mentioned earlier, this is not the case. The essential thing that we should pull out is this, and this is the most important thing I want to say, that we will then introduce substantive and criminal responsibility into the justice system. But not criminal liability, if a judge steals chocolate, it's okay today anyway. Material liability from the point of view of wrong decision-making, from the point of view of the unfair trial, from the point of view of the railway, the founding documents, from the point of view of the judgment drawn up too late and so on. Here, abroad, Austria, Italy and Germany, knows a very clear system. The judge is responsible for this; the citizen may receive compensation paid to him by the State, but the judge must pay it back. Even so far things have been arranged that he is also responsible at the time of his retirement. Otherwise, we have heard that they have a system there called ex-prime judges, and the former prosecutor and so on, and that we should also be able to enter into the marriage. Let them have an honorary title, let him be a supreme judge to the end, for after all, we call the professors after he's retired. Let them admit it, but at the same time, let us put in mechanisms to be responsible for their decisions. Whether it is a question of the timing of the trial, the misapplication of laws, the intentional injury, some damage caused in the judicial proceedings and so on. If we can do this within the deadline, this year or next year, to put into law, and what I think we are capable of doing, then, irrespective of the arguments, I will consider this meeting to be a success. In this House, at least I have, since 2004, what I have been following or what I have regularly done, have never heard anything on the issue of judges' responsibility, since it has always been said that this is not the case. Judges are independent and the judiciary is independent — it has always been. If we can reconcile this with the minister or if we can accept it in this House, I think we will do something about it, as a man would say, that we have performed a solid operation like a doctor would perform a solid operation on a sick person. I think we're gonna make it. That would be a success. It's a good thing we're going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! First of all, I would like to replicate to Mr Jerovsk because he said that members of the coalition oppose the demonstration of people. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It would not have occurred to me to allow myself to do so because people have the right to express their opinions, to gather, and we cannot ban them. I repeat, nothing like this has ever been said on my part. However, as regards the debate on this decision, which we are considering today, I would say the following. Problems in the Slovenian judiciary, the inadequate situation in our judiciary has lasted for many years. Citizens have increasingly criticised the functioning of the judiciary. We have heard many times that justice in Slovenia does not work, that the rule of law died and so on. These issues need to be demarcated and said that our justice is working. But the truth is, it doesn't work the way it's supposed to. Errors occur, files are laid down, procedures are long-term, which is particularly worrying. Because a suspended right is actually a right which shows to the person who is deprived of his right that someone is withdrawing his right and thereby denies his right. It is necessary to find out where errors are being made in the judiciary and to adopt an opinion that has already been said in this Chamber today that justice is the one that must only effectively remedy errors. Because the fact is that justice is only responsible and competent to detect and remedy errors. However, both the legislative branch of the authorities, the Members of the National Assembly and the executive branch of the authorities will have to do their utmost to ensure the conditions for normal work and to improve the functioning of the system in the judiciary. So, to increase efficiency and reduce judicial backlogs, to reduce time from filing an indictment to passing judgment and so on. This will also restore confidence in the rule of law. I am pleased that the Ministry has put in place specific measures to improve the functioning of the judiciary and the systemic changes in legislation. A special group of independent experts has also been set up to prepare additional measures to improve the functioning of the judiciary. In addition, a special commitment between the Government and the judiciary was signed, a commitment by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to improve the functioning of the judicial system. I would therefore like to conclude on the basis of all this. I believe that the real measures taken to give the judiciary the opportunity to operate more professionally in the future are more expedient in order to shorten the time from the indictment to the verdict. As I speak, I would like another comment on today's debate in the National Assembly on the subject of objective responsibility. Mrs Eva Irgl spoke before this speaker about the objective responsibility that should be assumed or felt by the representatives of the judiciary for the errors that have taken place in justice. Because I myself advocated in a matter in this Chamber that the head of a service or a group of people, when his subordinates make a mistake, should accept an objective responsibility and eventually withdraw, but I was not fully understood, so today I have said it here. I would add that we see in other countries, including Europe, that legal culture is at a higher level in these countries and that derogations occur there as soon as irregularities are identified. I'd like to ask you in the end when it's gonna be like this with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, behind him Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Leila warned me of William Shakespeare's thought that a word could kill a man, so I will try to be very gentle in my performance. The genius Albert Einstein said: "The world is not dangerous because of those who do wrong, but because of those who watch it and do nothing." We're here today and not the last time we've been called to do anything. I think we all have good faith, but we'll see the results soon. The results of Parliament's work so far are not envying, as the country has bankrupted. Ten years ago, I attended a lecture or seminar entitled The Operation of System Institutions and Corruption. It was then organised by the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption. That was 2002. How institutions operate systems is very important. On purpose, I will not define myself as a judge, I will tell you in the end why not, but I will look at some of the other institutions of the system. The ten-year existence of the Commission and the Office, now the anti-corruption Commission, has brought Slovenia from the bottom of the most corrupt countries to the top. Therefore, some of this office already appoints a commission to promote corruption and rightly so. Look, there's no one who can detect maliciousness. For if you have come from the bottom of corrupt countries, then we have been an example in ten years, something with this system institution is wrong. Well, let's move on. Who is the main culprit for the failure of the system institutions? I think it's Parliament. Parliament shall adopt a legislative framework in which the institutions of the system operate. If your statements, respected colleagues and fellow Members are true, about specific cases that I do not purposely define, then we may be afraid of what country we live in if this is happening. Our country is far from the rule of law. Let us stop lying to ourselves and to citizens and citizens of Slovenia and let us no longer face the truth. For, as Winston Churchill said, "It happens that sometimes we stumble on the truth, but usually we gather quickly and move on." Now let's get together and not move on. Let's stop and solve the dilemma. I'm going to quote Dr. Jozet Mencinger. Two days ago, he wrote: "The National Assembly, by amending the Constitution or the regulation of the referendum legislation, has finally confirmed that we are a deadlocked province that thinks it is a state." This is the assessment of many citizens and citizens. And in order for us to be a country, we will have to work hard. I am deliberately avoiding the functioning of the institutions of the judiciary because I am on my own. And I don't comment. But I could really use what the president of the Justice Committee has proposed, mag. Branko Grims, in order to have a general debate on the matter, because I am writing a third book dealing with the functioning of the institutions of the system, and I will describe it there. What I found out – I will not speak because it is premature – I will describe. The book will come out in the fall. I think it'll be an interesting third reading. I invite you to read now, but of course let us make this general debate that cannot harm us. It can't hurt, it can only benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Zanoskar, then Mrs. Matei Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u69	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! At the edge of the debate, which, including the debate on the parental committee, has been going on for a long time. It is probably not a common case for the legislative branch of power to place the judicial branch of power on a sad bench. This is kind of happening, and maybe sometimes I'm skeptical about it, but I also get this inner feeling that maybe at least the well-intentioned debates that have been on this subject will help to make some things better. It is bad that in these debates the confidence of citizens and citizens in our country is weakened, not only in the rule of law, but also in the whole state system, including all three branches of government. It must be said, however, that the situation in justice is not what we want, but it did not come overnight. For years and years, problems have accumulated that we may not have solved. We have not solved these problems in a manner that is appropriate for modifying and adapting, correcting legislation. If all governments had done this by now, there probably wouldn't be any problems at this point. Perhaps there would not be so many comments on justice or an independent branch of power. In the debates, I was disturbed by the fact that some very carefully discussed and analysed certain procedures, verdicts, judgments of the courts of those proceedings that have been completed and those that are still under way. This did not seem right to me because there was a sudden feeling that politics would still want to interfere with various procedures or in the judicial branch of government, which is independent. However, these examples also cannot cloud the whole atmosphere or whole debates under this point. Trust in justice is also at the forefront of making mistakes, but where mistakes are not made! Errors have also been made in this area, which will be remedied either as soon as we adopt the appropriate legislation and this will be resolved. It is encouraging and comforting in particular the fact that even if the situation in justice is what they are, those we do not want because we want better, there are quite a few things that are knowledgeable about the improved situation in the justice system. Today, we have heard a lot about them, not only that procedures are being cut short, but not just that justice is taking the most difficult cases of crime, but not just that decision-making is being done without political influence. These are facts written in an undertaking concluded between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court. It is also about the preparation of laws on judicial service and court law at the table, and it is also about the fact that the European Commission has not given concrete rules to our justice and has made recommendations. If we conclude that part of the justice reform is being prepared, then we can confidently expect that the situation in this area in this branch of government will improve in the future. In all of this, the legislative branch of the authorities will take care of the legislation, and we will adapt it in a way that will provide the best conditions for judicial work. Without self-cleaning and self-discipline, it probably won't work. In doing so, I would very much agree - perhaps it was Mr Gorenak - that legislation should be regulated in such a way that the supervisory function in the judicial system would act as a possible sanction for negligence, sanctions for non-professional actions, and also sanctions for the reckless exercise of duties in the execution or conduct of these proceedings. If I conclude all of this – this debate will certainly give us one boost, one acceleration that things will be regulated, but for the overall and final regulation of the situation in the judiciary – we are probably now fully aware of the importance of interdepartmental coordination between all three branches of government; enforcement, legislative and judicial. Once we have achieved this, it will likely be in this area as we wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Matthew Puchnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! After all that we have heard on the Justice Committee this week, even today, and all that we can read in the media every day, I think it is clear to everyone in this country that the state of justice is worrying, if not alarming, and unfortunately not only unsatisfactory, as the Minister has said. It is also attached to this by the European Commission's document of March, from which it is clear – and if I say quite simply without the numbers already given by my colleague Gorenak – that we have a significantly too expensive judicial system in Slovenia, far too many judges and judicial staff to the number of residents and absolutely too many judicial backlogs. The situation in the judiciary is also worrying, the European Commission has also pointed out in its recommendations, which it sent to Slovenia a good week ago and also touch on judicial reforms. It is also supported by Umar, who points out in his report that the inefficiency of the courts has had a very negative impact on the economic growth and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In my opinion, in addition to banks, the judicial system is just under-effective and is one of the main culprits of the major economic crisis in our country. Remember the cases of Vegrad and the SCT case of Elan, already mentioned by his colleague Pukšič, and all the Taiwanese acquisitions and many media-dissolved cases of economic crime and corruption, which were either too late or not solved at all and are obsolete. And what damage this has caused to our economy and to our people! You know, when I talk to people on the road or when they come to the office, they can say that we're kind of in the middle of a river to shut down the chicken thieves. However, all those who have robbed our banks and our companies and thus our people remain at large and are waiting for time to enjoy their millions loaded somewhere in foreign tax havens. This is the wrong world for me. We do not even need Europe to remind us of all the problems, as our citizens and citizens have been alerting us for quite some time to do so, who report with street banners that they no longer believe in the rule of law, let alone a just country. It's the responsibility of the justice system itself. The so-called errors of justice in recent times – I will not list the cases again. All these gruesome cases are a great omen to our judicial system and an earpiece to our legal and just state. Until we reform the Slovenian judiciary, the crisis in Slovenia will not end. The court will just have to set up a mirror. In view of the fact that the independent branch of power — which is also right — I also respect that — they will have to make their own order. They're not all bad, some are good, they're great, so I won't be misunderstood. I am therefore sorry that the Committee on Justice has not voted on a proposal for a public presentation of opinions, because what is good in the Court of Justice and what needs to be corrected in the Court of Justice could be spoken by an expert. Today, unfortunately, we only speak about this to politicians. I regret that the signing of the agreement between the Government and the Supreme Court did not take place as early as last year, but I am also pleased that the convening of this extraordinary meeting on justice has helped to sign it this week, which is also right, and I welcome it, but I wish that it was not just on paper. You know, paper carries everything. That there are obviously enough words and speeches, we are also reminded by our citizens, who, at the beginning of this week in the Epistle poll, spoke about the issue of an extraordinary meeting on justice. More than two-thirds, 68%, people do not believe that this meeting will help a more efficient judiciary. I really hope that they are wrong, because this meeting is an opportunity to draw attention again and again to the state of justice and to appeal to the Minister that it is a real time to act and we expect him to personally monitor closely the implementation of this commitment between the Government and the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings from Mrs. Brecelj, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have had plenty of opportunities to listen to different statistics, comparisons, international comparisons between Slovenia and other European countries, including the case of America, and it has been pointed out that such comparisons should always take into account the methodology used and the circumstances in which data were collected across countries. I would also point out that caution should be exercised when interpreting the number of judges per population, the number of prosecutors per population, and then we should forget to mention the number of cases involved. In this regard, it is interesting to read the annual report of the Supreme Court, for example, for 2010, when Mr Testen chaired this court in one part, in the other part Mr Maslesa. This annual report, which we also have available in the National Assembly, states that in 2010, 969 000 955 cases were brought to justice by all courts in the country. A little less than a million. The courts have resolved 992 thousand 52 cases, including a little less than a million cases. During that year, there were in fact 952 judges employed in the courts. If we continued in the pattern of misuse of statistics, as has been the case today several times, we could say that the number of cases involved, if they are at about the same level each year, indicates that each other of the Slovenians has one case each year before a court. Of course, we know that it is not true that some citizens have many cases before the courts, and some, or very many, have none. If we were then to continue with the cases, we would find that in 2010 a single judge had a thousand cases. That's a big one. Of course, the statistical deviation must again be taken into account, and some likely have resolved significantly more than a thousand matters and some significantly fewer than a thousand matters. It has been mentioned in these various comparisons that in some countries, for example in the state of Western civilization, it is a high point of Western civilization, America, usually and normally to protest before the courts. I have no objection to such species, to the civilized forms of expression of civil society's opinions, but I am concerned that in these groups there is no custom in the courts of America for congressmen to perform. One of our colleagues quoted today or referred to the GRECO report. The last GRECO report was in conjunction with Slovenia in 2012 and concerns the prevention of corruption in Members, Judges and Prosecutors. The previous report was made in 2007. The colleague claimed that the GRECO report was a report on the poor functioning of Minister Zalar. I am also reading this report, the latest 2012 report, and I am nowhere to understand that this report on the poor functioning of one of the ministers would be, but I see that this is a report on the overall state of efficiency of our courts in 2012. And, of course, I also understand a whole series of recommendations on how to proceed in the future. With several questions raised today, whether today's meeting will contribute to progress in relation to the judiciary and, in particular, in improving the situation in the field of justice, we should probably ask ourselves another question. What, though, are we Members or the National Assembly able to do to improve the situation in justice? With the commitment signed on 4 June by the Government and the Supreme Court, it can be suspected that there is a message in this undertaking to citizens and the public that the executive branch of the authorities and at least one part of the judiciary are willing to take a step forward. What, though, has been our conclusion, Members of the National Assembly, regarding our contribution to improving the situation in the field of justice? I recall this because we have many laws before us concerning the functioning of the judiciary or the judiciary. From 1995 on, we have laws that work for the independent state of Slovenia. Before 1995, laws from the old Yugoslavia were tried and applied. At that time, in 1995 they passed the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Judicial Service, the Penal Code and the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the Independent State of Slovenia. Since then, these laws, as well as later the Law on Courts, have often been corrected, amended, amended, and are now awaiting us with two of them in the process of correction. In our corrections, it would be very good to reflect on the consistency of the corrections to all these legislations, because, in particular, the judges have very much problems because of our poor work and the work of the executive branch of power. The laws that we are constantly correcting here are such that they are very difficult or increasingly difficult to apply in the courts because they are inconsistent and because they are full of things that are almost impossible to implement. The second thing we can do, which may also be our commitment, is how we feel about professionals who are in the judicial branch of power or in the judiciary, whether it's judges, prosecutors, state attorneys, lawyers, notaries. What is our attitude toward these people, and also in the public eye? It's bad in Slovenia. According to today's session, it's very bad. Even abroad, in other countries, the attitude towards justice is quite poor. But here we must be aware that these are people who have very much knowledge, from whom we expect them to operate according to very high standards, in which the state education system has invested a great deal of its knowledge, and therefore their work is also linked to our high expectations of how they work and to expectations of their social responsibility. What have we done to make the reputation, respect, and substance of these people manifest to the public as if they were professionals in their field? What have we done with their salaries? We have declared them ordinary civil servants. What have we done with the other ratings? They don't have them. What have we done with the people, the experts in the courts, who have helped with certain technical and technical matters? We fired them. 250 and a number of other measures have been taken in recent years, with which we have essentially broken down the meaning of the legal profession. If we understand that it is at this very point, including on our part, that we should contribute to the reputation of legal profession, then we will do much, even at today's session, for the sake of our justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u75	Thank you. Honourable President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. In no profession is there only good people, good workers and only bad workers. Just as we are often disappointed when they yell at us that all politicians are thieves, we know that this is not true, so I believe that in justice they are good, bad, slightly worse and average workers. But surely in Slovenian justice everything is not all good and right, we have already found this many times today and in many cases have been found. After all, Slovenia is second on the most corrupt country scale, we have banks with unfunded loans, we don't know who approved them, a lot of crime, bills in tax havens and so on. We have quite a problem, and I am sorry that there is not such a broader debate in which we can really hear the difficulties that judges, public prosecutors and all those who perform these functions face. I believe they do. Our task is certainly to cooperate as the legislative branch of the authorities in improving legislation in this area, but that is certainly not all. However, I would like to draw attention to another problem that we have in Slovenia, and it has already been mentioned several times today. Trust in justice, trust in authority – this is very lacking in Slovenia. I'm going to take one more case from football because we've used it many times today. Imagine that we have a football match between Slovenia and Germany and are appointed as a German judge. What is triggered in our minds at first? That this judge will not judge justly that he will be biased. In case we win, we will immediately forget, but in case we lose, it will be very difficult to admit that we are worse, even though we know which team is stronger. But we have problems because we're going to say he was biased right now. Perhaps a similar case could be said about my colleague Wilfan when we used to play basketball in similar years and he was judging me or our team, a rival between Brannik and the Railwaysman in Maribor. He was a judge, and we said we weren't so bad that we lost because he was their judge. It's just that, by the way, basketball comes a little bit of a turn. In the beginning, we are challenged by the justice of this judge. I therefore believe that the highest positions in all these institutions, from the courts, the prosecution to the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Commission, should be effectively appointed people with great professional competences and moral authority. If someone here is politically confirmed, but with the majority of the votes he needs to receive, there is no high consensus on this, there is already doubt as to the fairness of the function or the institution of this function. This has happened to us both with the appointment of the Attorney General as President of the Supreme Court. But now it is not specifically these names, I just want to say that when we return authority to such cities or those places to appoint people with moral and professional authority, then we will also be more confident and more difficult to challenge a report by the anti-corruption commission or some kind of verdict. At the same time, this person must also be able to sanction his subordinates, take responsibility and sanction subordinates or their mistakes. Mistakes happen everywhere, but they also involve other types of mistakes, which may not be just random, reckless or anything like that. When we solve the problem of authority in Slovenia or have truly qualified people in cities, moral authority, then I think there will be fewer problems with confidence in the judiciary in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič is not here, so it is Mr Richard Braniselj, followed by Dragutin Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u77	Thank you, Vice President. What is the meaning of today’s debate, today’s session? Even in trying to diagnose the problems in the judiciary. We have united ourselves to the judiciary – we are critical, we want and we demand better, but it is also on our side to contribute to this. Perhaps you'd like to start with your colleague Gorenak. He pointed out that our judicial system's great failure is that it is not clear compensation and criminal responsibility for judges. I must say, I'm surprised at this statement. I think Dr. Gorenak should know that's not the case. Judges are liable for their actions. Even if the court is guilty of any damage to the parties to the court or of paying damages, the appeal is also a regressive claim to the judge. I don't remember such cases, but in theory it does exist, and I think in practice it does. There is no reservation that compensation is not imposed on judges, as is the case with all other services, even in public and state administration. Another thing that Dr. Gorenak should also know — there is, of course, the criminal responsibility of judges for what they do in their ministry. Not only is there a crime of abuse of official status or official rights in the Penal Code, non-disclosure in the service, falsification of documents, all other crimes against justice that also touch judges, but there is also one crime that speaks of exactly what, dear colleagues and colleagues, you are always afraid that it is not, but it is. This is called the criminal offence of an illegal, biased and unjust trial, article 288 of the Penal Code. Anyone in that country considers that the evidence of a crime in any trial has been fulfilled and that the judge is the one who is supposed to have committed it is an official persecutive crime. There's no objection to reporting such things. But I'm curious as to how many charges, criminal charges, were made in this country. What other problems are there in our judiciary, and could we somehow solve them? It's on the legislative branch of power to do that. Justice is certainly considered to be the main obstacle and burden of fast and recklessly changing legislation. The Latin proverb says, "Corruptisima republic plurimae leges." The most corrupt country has the most laws. There are 800 laws in Slovenia. A hundred per year shall be accepted or amended. We know 300 crimes and over 10,000 crimes. In this sphere, our justice must move, judge and act. I'm not going to say that our country is the most corrupt, far from it. I was quoting a Latin proverb. Next thing. The courts have this handicap that they are extremely limited in their communication with the public. They don't have any money. And people can't brag about what they've been doing about specific things. They can't comment on specific matters as everyone else can. We call up press conferences, we tell everyone in detail, even more than it needs to be done. It's the opposite in court. They're very conservative. They can't say things. We don't have access to the files. We don't know how to imagine things. We depend on what the media collects. This is a great handicap of the judiciary and, of course, a suitable reputation. The next thing is, entering the judiciary profession in this country at the age of 30 – significantly too low. At the age of 30, people are just starting a professional career and the proposal is that this threshold be raised to at least 35 and then to all other judges, higher, circular and so on. This gives us exactly the opposite effect that lawyers do not learn from judges and then go to other professions, including lawyers, but vice versa, to learn from other professions and only the best to come to judges at 40 years of age, if necessary. Judges work until the 1970s and we don't have to worry about education, we don't need education. We get a profiled man and the Council of Justice can evaluate him on the basis of competences based on moral values that are evident during so many and so many working hours. In this way, the judiciary can only look at what the average grade was in college, what the evaluation was on the legal exam, and then it ends. We get an unwritten sheet of paper and we expect this unwritten sheet of paper to be an alpha and an omega and will be the head of the trial in the courtroom. We have reserves here to do something. We have had a number of justice ministers in this country over the past 20 years. The problems are not today or yesterday, the problems have accumulated and we have not reacted. And, of course, it's the fault of all those officials who have so far led to this situation. Everyone has had the opportunity to substantially change the course of events and I think that we are only now witnessing that, however, in the field of justice is going to happen and is already happening. After all, it's because people demand it more than ever. Maybe another anecdote about how our judiciary is nothing, bad, catastrophic. You know, the European Court of Human Rights was sued because there were thousands because it took our courts five years to finish one case. And the party brought an action before the European Court of Justice for an unreasonable trial, and beware that, after seven years, the court had upheld the judgment, settled and said that the Slovenian court had indeed judged within an unreasonable period of time. After seven years! You will not think that the courts are much better elsewhere. And once again, I'm going to be critical. We want and demand that our justice is better and we will insist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate, then Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nicely greeted! I would start by saying that one of the foundations of democracy is also an independent judiciary. A court that must act lawfully and which must function. Unfortunately, in recent times we have heard the thesis that there is an infallibility, that nothing is done wrong, and that is what eminent experts in the field of law, professors in colleges say. There's no corruption, there's no mistake. We all know that anyone is working, making a mistake, and it is the same with the judges, especially because of what Branisel’s colleague spoke about, the scope of the work, because of the broad knowledge that judges must have in order to do legally. Therefore, I do not think that the judiciary is untouchable and, above all, it is not such that we should not talk about it. When I talk about the judiciary and what I think, I am no different from the average Slovenian citizen who discusses this every day in such a different process. People talk about it and have the right to talk about it, so I, as a Member, also on behalf of the people who elected us, have the right to talk about it here in the National Assembly. Therefore, I am extremely sad that you have not allowed us a broad debate where you could put all aspects on the table and perhaps contribute to moving things around with such a debate. Obviously, we won't have that option. One of his colleagues said he was saddened that we spoke on the committee about specific cases and presented them and talked about them, concluded, not concluded. It is his right to think so, but I think that this is the only way we can shed light on the arguments that we have, what we think the judiciary is doing. In one of the answers to one of the presented cases on the committee, which I myself presented — a very simple case — the representative of the judiciary replied that the German judges could be successful because the offence in Germany is also a guilt drive and this is a very simple case where it is clear what is going on and can therefore be judged quickly. In Ljubljana a few years ago, on a white day, four people tried to rob one person, the police caught them and detained them, and the verdict lasted 7 years and was concluded only last year. A simple example, a simple example, and it took forever. This is not an example of good practice and therefore do not persuade me or convince all Slovenian citizens that this is a good and excellent and perfect judiciary. Everyone knows such cases, such simple examples of simple people who happen to them all the time. Some court proceedings also last 20 years and in extreme cases up to 30 years. This is unacceptable, completely unacceptable. I'm so sorry. I would like to point out another case, namely the judgment of a court recently made in relation to the case of vineyards or stickers we had for the registration of vehicles from 2001 to 2005. That's a lot to talk about. They're talking about cops, half-truths. But the facts are very simple, some of which everyone knows. They were unnecessary. The law, which was adopted, was adopted under the rule of Minister Bandlja in 1998. Since, at the time of the Bajuk government, this decision and the deadline for this to be carried out were not adopted, after the elections we received the new Secretary-General of the Government – see the fragment, Mr Bandl – and within a few months the law was amended where he extended the deadline and with 1. 12. We started happily putting stickers on for about a thousand 300 tolars. The contract was concluded, the invitation to tender was not made public, they went by the law or probably through the law on secret orders, because this sticker had some elements of protection. What people don't know is that this sticker or offer price structure. The profit was also determined in this price structure. All the elements of the work were listed and among them also profit. This profit was defined at 68 then tolars and at the end of the contract slightly over 76 tolars for two companies. So, one belongs to half. It is not true that the Ministry illegally, arbitrarily, illegally terminated the contract. That's not true. The Ministry proposed the abolition of this label, the Government unanimously adopted this decision and the National Assembly amended the law and then the Ministry was obliged by law to terminate the contract because this element was no longer in law. Just as the law required a contract to be concluded, it had to be amended by law. The Ministry sent all the elements to the court, including the price structure and everything else, with all the exact descriptions. The Court of First Instance decided the compensation to the extent proposed by the Ministry of Justice. And I agree with one of the lawyers who said on TV yesterday that contracts should be respected and compensation should be paid. Yes, but compensation based on profit. This profit for this company for a year and a half amounts to about 70,000 to 80,000 euros. This is a completely different number than the one we have on the table right now. Since the company complained, the Second Instance Court decided not on the basis of material facts and evidence already presented in the first stage and the second stage has an insight into what was going on in the first stage, but on the basis of an expert opinion what the costs would be. We've come up with some enormous number, some initial basic numbers plus even more enormous interest. And that's unacceptable. I think it was a mistake, maybe the judge made a mistake, maybe he didn't do it on purpose. Let's be well-intentioned. But it's on the state to file extraordinary legal remedies and further prove the facts on the paper that are crystal clear. I think that's what we should tell our citizens. Such errors take place in our court and are also very likely in other courts, and so please do not teach me and tens of thousands of citizens who have different experiences that everything is fine in our court. No, it could have been much better, we could have judged a lot faster, there could have been fewer mistakes. If we were to twist my species here and take good steps forward, then the judiciary could also, with our help, because we are changing the laws, including the Criminal Procedure Act, we could take those steps to help the judiciary push in any way possible to do more effectively. And just one more sentence. I would like to touch on one of the decisions adopted today on the Committee. This decision is very interesting. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supports legislative changes prepared by the Ministry of Justice. I don't know how to support something I haven't seen and I don't know anything about. I haven't seen any text, and I'm not signing anybody a blank menu. Let the ministry present these proposals, these amendments, to bring them to the committee, to the National Assembly, we will discuss them, and then we will be happy to support them if they are true and good – with joy. So in advance, dear colleagues, so prepared are the amendments tabled by the largest coalition party, and I cannot support it, I am very sorry. Something I don't know, I can't support. This is not how we can work, so we must stop in this country and we must start working seriously to pull the wagon forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u81	Ladies and gentlemen! The topic we're talking about today is probably the one, but I really don't know about it. As a citizen, as a human, I will try to comment on what has been said here today. One of the candidates today said that there were no proceedings against the tycoons and that the tycoons were not convicted. Procedures are under way, ladies and gentlemen, and they have already been convicted and will be condemned. That's today's message. The judiciary of work, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we are here today talking about this subject, so we are talking about the fact that the judiciary does not judge well that the judiciary is as it should not have been. Someone else can share justice with us! Ours in Parliament, however, is that we are trying to ensure such laws so that they can work. As we speak, today the biggest opposition party said: "The trial of Janez Janša will be defended by all means by appeal in the European Court of Justice." But first, we need to make use of all the resources we have at home, only then is what can happen in Europe. If there were two people protesting in front of our building among the reasons, because they had been wronged and there was no justice from those who had miraculously bankrupted businesses and left two people without everything, then I would understand. No, we stopped by because there's been an injustice, so to speak, to someone who's the most important in this country. Here's what I'm going to say, Mirage -- they say it was right in the first degree. Janez Janša’s first stage was not properly decided, but look, when the judgment is final, we have no choice but to accept it, and Mirag’s judgment is final — sorry, legal, whatever. And for all that was done, the reason was at that stage that someone did not respect the laws, that someone did not do what they were supposed to do, had a canvas and scissors in his hands, and could have initiated proceedings against the one who had accepted a harmful sticker contract. Who changed the law in the National Assembly? That's what we should be asking because he knew what was going to happen back here. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary has decided, the judiciary has decided, and it is right that we respect it here in the National Assembly. But Mr Grimes was right. Today's session is a meeting for the future, because the judiciary is working and if we respect the decisions of the judiciary and those bodies that we have appointed ourselves as supervisory authorities, then we will win and then we will have a bigger rating and then the policy will not be corrupt as they say, and it will not be the worst in this country. For this, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary is working and it is right for the tycoons to shake their pants, to shake the pants of those who can't tell where they got 200 000 euros and those who can't tell where they changed their assets for a few million euros in a year. That is why today's meeting is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor, Mr Jerko Čehovin is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u83	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All those who participated in both meetings of the Justice Committee or in the continuation of the meeting obviously did not hear what was said in the introduction, why the Slovenian Democratic Party requested an extraordinary meeting on the issue of the state of justice. Mr Vinko Gorenak, as the proponent, said very well that it is not the intention to point to justice, but to point out the weaknesses in justice and that together all three branches of government acting on behalf of citizens and citizens, we will find out what we can do in our field to ensure that the situation in justice is as we all want to ensure a just and legal state and that we will respect democratic values and, above all, respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. Today, colleague Popot was somehow a lawyer of the court. Nice, but I'm asking my fellow Member why he doesn't defend those workers and citizens who have been in court proceedings looking for their rights for years and years, and nothing happens. I am asking you, Members and Members of Parliament, who are talking about how we have a good judiciary, that we should not discuss problems in the judiciary – I am saying that we must discuss the judiciary, the problems in the judiciary and the judiciary. Here is the right place, not on the street or anywhere else, here is the temple of democracy, we are the legislative branch of power and it is right here to debate to draw attention to irregularities here and to try together to remedy shortcomings, both with the executive branch of power and the legislative branch of authority. There was no other purpose when we proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting. In one of the prestigious press houses, and I'm not doing any commercials, there was a record of "Trust in justice is on the dog. Not only because of the latest scandals and mistakes, but because the justice of the Slovenian public has not been able to convince all since independence that it is successful in protecting the rule of law, but that it is especially good in protecting its own interests and privileges to exploit its independence and to protect its own bad work. Another problem is if a large part of the public believes that justice is left and not independent. Justice wants trust, but it doesn't take responsibility. If half the people believe that Patria is a mounted political process and the conviction of Janša's crossing, the problem is not only justice, but they have damage to the state and indirectly the business. It's time to replace the key people in justice." It is necessary to discuss whether these indications are real or not. This is what Members and Members must do in the National Assembly, so people have chosen us to draw attention to the injustices, to try to eliminate them by means of the legislation proposed by the executive branch of power, to confirm good laws and, of course, to reject bad ones. This is our duty here in the National Assembly, in particular respected, once again to stress human rights and fundamental freedoms. Indeed, the government adopted this agreement a few days ago, a commitment between the government and the judiciary. But I wonder, because I listened very carefully to the minister when he said he was trying in the previous government, and he didn't make it. Why didn't he make it? Because John Janša led the government. That's why he didn't make it. Here's the confirmation that the trial is on the left. I'm sorry. That's my opinion. That's the opinion of a lot of people outside this house. When you tell us to some Members and Members that we were before the Ljubljana Court building on Wednesday, let me tell you that we were happy to be there because we were protecting human rights and freedoms and will. Those who condemn this act ask themselves, ‘ Do you live in another system and do not judge in this system? ’ In 1991 we fought for a free, democratic state, not to support today's communist methods, a totalitarian system and respect the former symbols, but not the symbols of statehood, which are our beautiful Slovenian flag and coat of arms. Dear colleagues and colleagues, those of you who are in the coalition today, and you have also been in the coalition of the government of Janez Janša, let me just tell you that the coalition agreement has written: "The coalition partners will adopt solutions to reopen the criminal procedure, eliminate the judicial investigation, eliminate the judicial backlogs, establish control over the efficiency, up-to-dateness and legality of the work of the courts. We will adopt solutions by which we will limit the duration of the proceedings to a maximum of six months at the first stage, a maximum of three months in the appeal procedure and a maximum of three months in the case with exceptional remedies in the Supreme Court." It's been a year and a half and nothing happened. If you look at this arrangement, nothing's going to happen for another six months. This is the sad thing that citizens and citizens understand as if it does not work just, democratic, and above all not the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor, Mr Pojbič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When the policy is responsible for not saying blue, it is governed by the constitutional order in the country, which means that it is aware of the tripartiteness of the government. This should, in fact, be our basic standard of political culture, which should not be questioned. This does not mean that we should not express our opinion and assessment of the functioning of the judiciary, but in particular adopt legislation and measures to improve, facilitate and accelerate the work of the judiciary. This branch will never be as ideal as we are, as there is no other branch of power, and even the fourth branch of power is not ideal. However, we should strive to get closer to the effectiveness of some optimism. Here I agree with what the motioner said today that the situation in the judiciary needs to be improved, and the minister said that the problems in the judiciary have accumulated. I agree with all of this. I also agree with what the President of the Supreme Court said today, that judges must not be imprisoned in an ivory tower and watch what is happening around them. In times of crisis, economic, political, moral, the judiciary must also change its mental patterns and actions. I've got all my stuff clean up here. But I have to say that I have a little more problems when we create an illusion that politics can judge. However, I cannot agree here that we are dealing with individual cases in Parliament, and that you will not hear from me – not only individual cases, but also judgments. But then we turn into some tribunal and take over some branch of power that does not come to us Members. When I find out why this meeting was convened, I must say that I have come to the conclusion that it was called for the first time to talk about how the tops of the prosecution and the courts should be replaced, and secondly, that we are somehow trying to do at least this coincides with the sentence, although I do not want anything concrete here. When we're talking about some of the recommendations we're supposed to make, I think we've heard enough. The Minister has also drawn some things, and I think that this commitment to citizens who have been signed is just a shift, we hope that not only small-scale or not only imaginary, but also more effective in the functioning of this third branch of government. I think that all further matters should be focused on asking how this commitment is being implemented in time. I think it's more important than spinning around under the impression of a judgment. Also foreign newspapers to conclude with this – let's say today in Der Standard, the foreign policy editor, Mrs Adelheid Wölfl, wrote: "Slovenia now that it is in a deep political crisis needs confidence, not a paranoid fantasy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, prepared by Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Initially, I would like to say that the people I know, our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, are very clearly and loudly criticising the functioning of the judiciary. I am sure that all those sitting in this House cannot oppose this argument. These are the facts. The judiciary in our country has the worst rating, so there are certain reasons for that. I would like to say that all branches of power, except the judicial branch of power, have some kind of control over themselves in this country. If we look at the executive branch of the authorities, it is controlled by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at each election for the National Assembly. And those who work contrary to the interests of this country cannot be elected in the next elections, including political parties. The executive branch of power has control over itself of the legislative branch of power and no one in Parliament can challenge it, so we have the National Assembly to control the executive branch of power. Finally, we have a third, judicial branch of power, which has no real control mechanism over itself. I don't think that's the best. I'm not saying it's the right thing to do, but I'm saying it's not the best thing, because every branch of power should only be responsible to someone. That would be logical and normal, but obviously that's not the case, in our society that's not the case. I would like to remind you of one very interesting statement made in the past by one of the very important Slovenians – for me irrelevant and for some. He said: "It must be clear that we Communists are in power in this country. If it weren't for us, there'd be someone else, but it's not like that, and it's never gonna be." It's a quote from the Communist comrade Stanielance. Why did I say that? In our home country, we hear that Slovenia is led by background uncles and certain networks and certain groups and people say and I will list some names that will not be said to say that I have claimed to have stood for the fate of our nation and these people are holding the whole of Slovenia under control. These are people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u88	Mr Pojbicz, I suggest you focus on the state of justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u89	I'm focusing. Don't bother me. That's what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u90	If they are judges, whether this is in particular in this regard – please, we follow the rules of procedure and points.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u91	Please don't bother me when I'm talking. You haven't disturbed anyone yet, and neither have you, because this is related to this problem that we are talking about today. Now I'm going to write down the names I said before. Among the people from the network, the background should be Mr. Zemlaric, who is to overshadow even Mr Kučan, Mitja Ribič, his son Cyril, who is former Constitutional Judge, Isajlović, Jankovic, Marinc, Šetinc and so on. They're supposed to be people who control all the branches of government in this country from behind. If the justice system were to function normally, it should come to this information and take certain decisions and should react so that this could not happen in this country. This should be the aim of the justice system. Not to say why I opened this darkness. We have Zbilski Gaj, Satex, Bulmastife, not to mention not to mention there in Maribor, bankruptcy administrators in connection with judges and so on. And how can our citizens then have confidence in such a system? No, they can't have it. They can't have it because they see and feel that something's happening past them that they're not affected by, and that's what's unacceptable. I think and I am sure that we need to talk about this issue, we need to talk about our judicial system and we need to look for new solutions to make the justice system actually work in the interests of our citizens and citizens. He's not doing it now. I am convinced that he is doing his job in a certain part in the interest of an individual lobby, but this is the most harmful thing that can happen to anyone in this country and we must avoid it. These discussions are useful to take a step towards making a line in this direction. This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš has the word, the mags are being prepared. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Mr Matjaž Han, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u93	Thank you. On this day in 1992, I do not know if there was anything to be said about this, in the Jurovska Dol near Lenart, in today's unexplored circumstances, Ivan Kramberger was murdered. May he rest in peace, and I express the hope that that true truth will come once a day. Today, after 22 years of independence and the creation of the sovereign state of the Republic of Slovenia, we can ask ourselves what we have achieved to date. The first question is, to what extent have we been able to break ties to the practices of the old totalitarian regime, which introduced communist ideology into education and the economy and systematically violated the human rights of those who disagreed with the regime in the field of justice. Today we're talking about justice. It's corrective, it's controlling, and good justice is supposed to be at the core of every modern country. According to recent events, events a few years ago, backlogs, procedural errors, the unprocessed crimes, we need to ask ourselves what is not working in our judiciary or who is not doing their job. Let me first stop at a simple fact that seems to me controversial and concerns the period after the transition. The first cancer wound of the Slovenian judiciary is a simple transition to a new country, where the appropriateness of those who held judicial functions in the previous system has never been established in those who were judges in the new system. Today, there is increasing evidence of exposed judicial officials that they were SDV informants, secret service that systematically violated human rights, and today they are acting as prosecutors, chief judges and even constitutional judges. How is that possible? How can I, as accused, sit against a man who violated human rights and expect him to be just and independent in the process? It's hard. The problem facing justice is also the backlog. Above all, it is necessary to seek reasons in the Court itself. For many years we have been aware of the problem of overloading district courts against other courts, let's say administrative courts, but the tops of these judicial pyramids resist any reform of the system, and whenever this matter wants to be regulated, they rise up when politics interferes with our autonomy, the policy intervenes in the judiciary and the policy wants to make us slaves. But it's not like that. Today, we have probably all seen that there are many mistakes and problems that we need to unify. To conclude, I would just like to add that as long as the highest functions in the judiciary are half-decent, from an old repressive country where many of the current high-ranking judicial officials have violated human rights, we cannot promise ourselves an independent judiciary in Slovenia. While some smilefully rent indemnity loans without coverage, destroy the fiscal structures of the state and continue to steal our public money, we are also afraid of what we have done in an undetermined place in an undetermined manner at an undetermined time and when prosecutors will come after us, people and, of course, others who cannot spend 400 euros a month at the same time surviving the family and paying contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper has the floor, followed by Mr Roberto Battelli, then Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have been talking a lot in recent days about the problems of justice, and these problems of justice and dissatisfaction with the work of justice are much older than the proposal of the proposer for this extraordinary meeting. Therefore, I cannot agree that the debate at this extraordinary session or even the public presentation of opinions can solve the problems that have accumulated for a long time and for which we have been looking for solutions for just as long. I am pleased, in particular, that, after these discussions, we are more or less united about the fact that the problems are and that the functioning of justice needs to be improved – even the judicial authorities agree – which is the difference between us, and that is quite clear, but what is the way to achieve this objective. Some think, as we may have heard a colleague before me, that the lustration and replacement of all judges would have solved all our problems, and perhaps two more, three laws should be changed, the constitution changed and all our problems resolved. I wish it were that simple! If it were that simple, perhaps the colleagues who proposed this meeting and these solutions would have already done so. Five years ago they led the government, the last good three months ago, they had a long time, a very important role in the State Prosecutor's Office and the people they value, Mr Drobnič, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, were there in the leading places, and if the change of some laws could really solve all our problems with justice, this would certainly have been done. Thus, the problems that justice has are complex and truly difficult to solve. Let's see what we're all up against. A huge number of conflicts, above average for this nation. From my mediation practice, I remember the case when three sisters had three sisters from the succession of nearly 100 lawsuits open to each other in district, district, administrative, higher, constitutional courts. Then, many too many people in Slovenia are interfering with judicial assistance in the resolution of disputes, and there is little possibility of out-of-court dispute resolution. Pre-normary legislation and the rapid amendment of legislation – we have already talked about this a lot today. Lack of professional staff and professional assistance in court, problem of awarding judges, problem of respect for their authority and respect for the authority of court decisions. All of these are problems that require solutions, and the only possible solutions are those, as proposed in the decision by the coalition, solutions where the powers will unite all three branches of government, legislative, executive and judicial. Legislative by enacting laws as best as possible or even simplifying problematic legislation, enforceable, which will provide material and monetary conditions for the work of the judiciary and the judiciary with good work by law, by constitution and by responding to current social problems within normal time limits. We will therefore support in the coalition the first decision that has already been voted on the committee today and which is moving in this direction. On the other hand, we believe in the coalition that the independence of justice is a fundamental thing that cannot be touched and discussed. Without independent justice, the rule of law is not possible and there is no democratic regulation of any country. That is why the amendments to the legislation planned by the Ministry hold and all the solutions proposed will be taken in this direction so that the independence of the judiciary is not affected. At the same time, as has been said, the solutions are precisely in the direction of increasing efficiency to expose additional forms of control and so on. In this sense, the commitment that has been made is not quite an empty letter on paper, as some have wanted to say, but it has some important solutions. The main focus is certainly to accelerate positive trends in the average time taken to solve certain types of issues and here are proposed concrete solutions and fully specific deadlines. With regard to improving the quality of decision-making, this is, of course, the most under the jurisdiction of the judiciary itself, but the commitment here also represents some systemic solutions, both in terms of control as already mentioned, and also in terms of reform of the judicial and prosecutorial profession in terms of greater education of judges and prosecutors prior to entering their profession. The added value of the commitment to citizens is also that it will be easier to identify the responsibilities of the Presidents of the Courts who will be responsible for the work of their judges and can be resolved if they fail to achieve the planned business results in two consecutive years, which are also identified by some in the undertaking. The proposed legislation already presented by the Ministry and the commitment signed by the judiciary, the commitment to citizens, are powerful tools that show a step in the right direction and that will certainly somehow change matters for the better. However, it is crucial, as some cautioned, to monitor and implement these objectives. As far as the judges are concerned, much has already been said about this today. Of course, that's not true. The regularity of judicial decisions is very much controlled in the judiciary, particularly through an instantaneous trial. As we know, the decision of the First Instance Courts is controlled by a higher court, and often by the Supreme Court, constitutional disputes and even protection before the European Court of Human Rights are possible. In addition to the instant check that ensures control of the decision in court, the judge is subject to a number of other checks, such as a regular assessment of the judicial service, the official supervision that the minister may require, the evaluation that takes place through the personal councils and the judicial council, and all of these are very serious elements that affect the work of the judge and which prevent the judge, as some have wanted to say today, from judging in his own way. In this respect, I do not agree with the fact that there are no responsibilities. By the way, the judiciary also consists not only of judges, but of experts appointed by the National Assembly and in the work of judges representing different levels of judicial decision-making. As far as political responsibility is concerned, the responsibility of the judges has been much said about it. Of course, we also have judges who are subject to criminal civil and disciplinary responsibilities. All three responsibilities are recognised and in practice also established in Slovenia. Indeed, judicial officials are not holders of political responsibility, and this is certainly true, but in this sense they are holders of public responsibility, which means that the public must guarantee that their work is in accordance with law, constitution and professional standards. In order to exercise this responsibility, it is essential and essential that they have the authority and respect that both politics and the public must give them. I conclude that the event we have witnessed in the last few days can be the most powerful measure to reduce the effective work of justice and justice. By reducing his authority, we achieve exactly the opposite of what we want to achieve. If people do not respect the court, do not come to the hearing, do not respect the judge's decisions, do this in practice, people react immediately to such things in public or if important public people or political personalities do it. Such cases directly exacerbate the work of the judiciary and lead in the opposite direction. In this context, I once again protest that the highest representatives of the legislative branch of power go to the courts, protest and thus pressure the work of the judiciary. Even if we do not agree with the court’s decision at some stage, it must be respected and seen to be tested again and again. The error can be remedied or the decision will be confirmed. Therefore, commenting and particularly insulting, which we have heard in the public over the last few days, is very wrong and throws a very bad light not only on us, but on our country in international circles, and leads us from the goal we all want to achieve together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There are certain coincidences, mentioned earlier, but if someone looked unharmed at the events of these few decades in our country, for example, that the proposal for lustration coincided with Depala's village, for example, or that Patria coincided with the elections. Some then acted as if they already knew what was going to happen on Wednesday. That's weird. It's a coincidence. The fall of the former government, which occurs at the moment a bad bank or holding company is supposed to start operating. These are also coincidences that do not reassure the public. Last time I said that it is likely that 70% of the economic sector in Slovenia is directly or indirectly owned by the country, i.e. by politics. A number of colleagues came forward and my naive conclusion criticised and they were right, not 70%, but 73%. Over the years, a few billion euro of public money has disappeared unknown through a black hole of this bond or alliance between politics, banks and the economy that has never been privatised. There are also respected institutions in this country that do not hide that they know and let them know that they know how it happened and who did it. These things with the disappearance of such sums of public money are in everyone's sight, but how come there hasn't been a bad bank and holding. And where is justice in all this story? What did it do, why didn't it do it, why doesn't it do it to investigate it? Here are the prosecutions, first of all, who must act under the legal obligation of those who know it, to tell the investigating authorities what they know. Why is this not happening, how is this not happening — because this is the real problem. It's a bigger problem than a controversial judgment that fell on Wednesday. I expect something will really be done. This low credibility, both the judiciary and the other democratic institutions of this country, has a reason to exist. Besides, who says it's not in the interest of the circles that did this to throw up their guilt on other branches of government and on Parliament at all? We have already heard in Parliament that Parliament is responsible for these stories. That's outrageous. That's out of my mind. And that's dangerous because it's attacking the city, the only city that can help save these things and bring credibility back to the country as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, and Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. At the beginning of the debate, when Mr Gorenak began to explain in a Vehementary manner that there was probably some serious agreement and that I was reading something here, which I probably said earlier this morning or was unable to decide what was earlier, morning or afternoon, and that the media had reported. This event this morning in Portorož, and not in Koper – he did not read well where I was – was essentially planned a year ago and the address of this topic is now a year ago. The event was invited by the leaders of the visiting groups, Matthew Tonin, Jože Tanko, President of the National Assembly, Mr Weber, I and probably others, I don't know. At least I know about those four, and when I got to Portorož, I realized I was alone there. I expected to meet my colleagues there. But no matter what, the fact that there was only one discussion: where are the policy boundaries, when entering the judiciary, or where is the border, when it can still enter and where not. And now I'm really going to say what I said this morning, and I didn't say anything about that speaking desk. I also said that borders are about as far as human rights limits are concerned, only to be reclassified within the limits of jurisdiction. When one jurisdiction interferes with another jurisdiction, that limit arises. We all walk along a subtle border, and the devil is that each option looks with its own eyes at what else is there to interfere with and what not. But all of this is the fact that people don't understand. People only understand that this moment of discontent and a hand to the heart, not only with the judiciary, but with all three branches of power, executively, legislatively and judicially. If all three branches are to step together and first and foremost realize what each one must do in his or her function, and, of course, all three to those measures have observed where it is absolutely necessary, because we still have this interdependence between each other. If there is no other dependence on the provision of conditions; in the National Assembly, we are adopting a budget to determine how much they will receive in the judiciary and how much we will cut off our cakes in the National Assembly and how much executive power they will have to carry out all the tasks. Personally, I say that if we want to be 100% independent, we will be independent only when both the judiciary and the National Assembly have financial independence in terms of each budget but not the budgetary user. For this reason, it is more than clear that if we step here together, we will also be able to do something and show, everyone within their spheres of competence, and that is what is most important. So, Mr Gorenak, these were in the graves of the only words I said this morning, behind this speaker panel I spoke half an hour, and I didn't even have enough time in Portorož to talk for so long. However, if we are talking about everything that we have heard today, I must say that I am extremely disappointed, especially in this direction, that, in terms of the strength we have in the National Assembly as Members, we continue to serve to publish our names, surnames and logic. One of you just has your eyes back and you're convinced that this is your right, that it's the only way to solve problems, so you expose them, to tell them, and in some ways always point your finger at the other. As far as labels are concerned, there have been at least 6 or 7 discussions today. Let me tell you again, the problem with the stickers is they were. I agree with everyone who says that these stickers shouldn't even appear, but whatever they have, and whoever's made them, it's happened. That's not supposed to happen. However, since these stickers were already in place, and since the government of John Janša has found that these stickers must be completed, it has also ended, and from here on out, it is a serious problem for me that the court’s decision has shown that the termination of the contract was incorrect. We'll just have to live with that. I only hope that the Government will introduce a review of the procedure, use exceptional legal remedies and determine whether it is possible that this is too much to pay back, and in this way, it has added some additional euro. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I hope that we have demonstrated by this extraordinary meeting that we must no longer be unprepared to attend such extraordinary meetings. I apologize — this is no longer a serious work of the National Assembly. We will have a debate on the judicial branch of power every time we have a law that concerns them directly. Now it will soon be up to you, and I believe that there will be a serious topic and discussion then, and I believe that you will be able to perform with all the debates you have resumed today, I hope in a much more reasoned way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Tina Brecelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! To avoid any doubt, I'd like to explain a few things. The Ministry of Justice is aware, as has already been established, that the situation in the field of justice is not satisfactory. Justice needs change, many improvements and fast. That is why we have drawn up a clear agenda, the specific objectives that we are following, and our path to concrete current cases has no connection. We have already carried out some of the measures outlined. As you know, the long-awaited novelties of insolvency law have been adopted, and we have also prepared novelties of the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service and signed the undertaking. We'll take other measures. I would like to say about the commitment that we have concluded because we believe that cooperation is the basis for something to move towards better and because, however, the left hand share of the responsibility to change, improve, in the judiciary itself. Since cooperation is our guide, this is how our legislative proposals come into being. In this way, as a result of a broad and long debate, both of the above-mentioned amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service have also emerged, but I would like to stress in particular that the Ministry of Justice does not coordinate at all costs. The institutions which, according to our assessment, are necessary to increase efficiency remain, although they are not coordinated with the professional public or are only partially coordinated. So, we're working together, but we're not moving away from the route we believe to be the right path. The commitment, as already mentioned, is also one of the measures on the way to the objective pursued. We are preparing other measures. If I mention just a few of them to mention the preparation of the proposal for a Systemic Disposal Act, followed by the amendment of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin with the aim of establishing more effective procedures, we will also prepare the Enforcement and Insurance Act with the aim of a comprehensive reform of the enforcement procedure, we will also better manage the land debt. In addition to the legislative measures, we are planning other measures, which I will tell you more about on the next occasion. We already have them, but I'm not gonna tell you everything today. In the end, I'm going back to my commitment and I'd like to say that. Today, the debate highlighted the fact that the Court's pier is inadequate, so communication from the judiciary with the public is not sufficient, is not adequate, is not proactive enough. That is why we have specifically stated in the undertaking that the role of the Presidents of the Courts in the development of responsible and transparent conduct is crucial. Thus, the Presidents of the courts must, inter alia, take care of a proactive approach in communicating with the public, and surveys on the satisfaction of the various public with the work of the judiciary are also envisaged and, last but not least, the approach, as it says, is to anonymise the judgments of the higher and supreme courts. Thus, the undertaking explicitly foresees a different pear approach to the judiciary. Finally, once again, we have made our goals clear, and we know how to walk decisively and persistently toward them and on the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The Committee on Justice proposed to the National Assembly a complementary proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a debate on the updated proposal for a recommendation and on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the first point of the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since I do not see any interest in the debate, I conclude the debate on Point 1 of the proposal for a recommendation. I am putting to the debate the second point of the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just a short warning. Some of the proposals adopted in the text adopted by the Committee have already been taken into account. The text adopted by the Committee, for example, speaks of a commitment to be made and has already been adopted on Wednesday evening. So, for the first time, our amendment partially cures the fixing of things that have already been arranged. In other words, it summarises that legislative changes are necessary. We have heard the Secretary of State, and they are also very much prepared, and the essence of this amendment is to commit ourselves to respect also the GRECO guidelines and the recommendations of the European Commission, so I ask Members to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I see that I would like to discuss Mr Franz Puksič, but there is no time available. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I don't see any more desire for a debate. So, I conclude the debate on Point 2 of the proposal for a recommendation. I am putting to the debate the fourth point of the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody wants to talk anymore. I conclude the debate on the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 7 June 2013. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 1. [[advertising from the hall]] I apologize, of course, on behalf of the Group of Members. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. In fact, justice is the essence, the aim of every legal action and Slovenia will certainly be able to hold on to the long term only if all its citizens and citizens, all who reside here, are guaranteed true equality and justice. We therefore propose to add the word "justice" in point 1, since it is the essence of the law and also constitutes a substantive complement to the form of point 1 which has now been adopted, as adopted at the Committee's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name before the vote? If we don't, we're going to the vote. The vote on point 1 and the proposed SDS amendment shall take place. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to point 2. We vote Sorry, you want to explain your vote. [[...]] Who wants to explain the voice? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Earlier, Mrs Brecelj had said that she would tell us about the measures on the next occasion. Here you wrote in the amendment that the National Assembly should support the legislative changes prepared by the Ministry of Justice. So we do not know, and you, who are proposing this amendment, do not know what measures the Government will propose in the area of improving justice, because the lady said she would explain them on the next occasion. The proposal or adoption of such an amendment is incorrect because you are taking something into consideration without having a list to have anything without having any solutions, and it is obvious that what Mr Möderndorfer said earlier will happen to us on the basis of the newspaper articles that we will find out what the Ministry of Action is proposing. Here, too, is what you want from us, a thin thought or agreement to open up a solution that even the proponent does not know what it is. We cannot support such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Let me tell you that Mrs Tina Brecelj, through the Rules of Procedure, cannot give an explanation because we are already at the voting point and there is no more discussion and explanation. Mr. Franz Pukšič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u109	Thank you very much. For the first time in my life – well, since I am in the National Assembly – that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supports legislative changes. National Assembly of Legislative Amendments! Those apprentices who have been in the National Assembly for three days, why don't you take the receipt and take a look at it? But if you think it's just because the PS suggests it's smart, it's not true. First and second times of course. If it were already said that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supports the drafting of legislative changes, then of course we are clear that the government is preparing this. If prepared and done as soon as possible, it would make so much more sense, and so from the business alphabet, who is where and what the legislative branch of power is, of course, it is not possible for the National Assembly to support legislative changes. Since, if so, we could also have a change of Rules of Procedure and have correspondence sessions and not go to the National Assembly at all, we would have been at home and would have called a correspondence meeting and the matter would have been carried out. This would probably be the best thing from Positive Slovenia as long as they're in power, but that's the sweetest thing I can see.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u110	Have you made your vote clear enough, Mr. Franz Pukšič? We're moving to the vote. But I would say that even in the future without controversy and no offense to anyone. All Members and Members shall be equal. We don't insult anyone or insult the apprentices or anything like that. I am beginning to vote on the second point of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 30. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the fourth point. You want to explain your voice? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u111	Thanks again for saying that. In fact, it would be best if we had a few minutes of silence, for 42 Members and Members of the National Assembly voted against justice. The ruling coalition has been defined against justice. If this wasn't the moment of truth for Slovenia, then I really don't know what it was and everything we've done in those 18 hours and something else, I think it's paid off richly now, at least the masks have fallen. The ruling coalition opposes justice. Because justice, of course, also follows responsibility, it would be logical to accept justice, and justice is essential in every modern democratic country. By also adopting the amendment to the fourth paragraph, which proposes to the Council of State Prosecutors to initiate the procedure for determining the responsibility of the Attorney General and the Council of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to define themselves until the work of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and until the state of the judiciary. Boštjan M. Zupančič, one of the top authorities, said: "The Slovenian judiciary is becoming more effective in handling less important cases, while the situation in the area of dealing with economic crime and corruption is pervasive." And with regard to the case that some of you referred to, now that the courts have begun to work, Dr. Cheferin has identified himself, which you have probably read on the website, that because of such a judgment he is ashamed of being a lawyer in such a country. And there must be someone who knows what he's talking about. Given that you have voted against justice, that you have shown who you are, that Slovenia knows today what order you stand for. In the end, they were also effective in the Nazi German courts, they were open, they were transparent, they were not fair, they were worthless.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u112	We're talking about the position of the Mag Group. Grimes!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u113	Then, ladies and gentlemen, it is logical that you will also now oppose. Because if there is no justice, there can be no responsibility. Then it's just another thing, revolutionaryism, or whatever you call what you stand for, but it's sad that it is. In modern Europe, there is no misunderstanding, no room for such excesses. In the SDS Group, we will, of course, support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u114	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u115	My grandfather used to write fairy tales, and he would call such a speech Mr Grimes a wordsmith. He misused the word justice, and now, of course, the public clearly thinks that we have voted against righteousness. If we really accepted that, it would have happened that it would have looked like we would have been just now, from now on, just in court, which of course is not true. But as always, Mr Grims, you know how to abuse all of this, unlike you, I will at least say that I will certainly vote against this proposal together with the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u117	Thank you. To make it clear to all the Slovenian public what they voted against and why this is actually relevant to the amendment before us, I will read the entire sentence. In order to improve the situation, concerted efforts by all three branches of government towards greater efficiency, openness, transparency and we wanted to add justice. And you've erased justice. Justice is not your goal and the masks have fallen.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u118	Point four, Mr Grimes!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u119	And because there is no righteousness, it is logical to expect that you will remain in your opposition to righteousness and also vote against responsibility, for the essence of the fourth point is responsibility. The responsibility, which is why even the most respected lawyers, like the people who represent us in the courts of the European Union, is that of lawyer Cheferin and others who say they are ashamed of being lawyers because they are lawyers in Slovenia. On top of that, ladies and gentlemen, we should all imagine. And of the fact that Harvard professors warn us that some of the most infamous judgments in Slovenia do not even meet the minimum standards of any court in a democratic country. This is after all what Europe is alerting us to, and after all, because there is no responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, that the judiciary does not work as it should. Without a well-functioning judiciary, without accountability in justice, there can be no prosperity for everyone, there can be no effective economy, there cannot be a well-functioning entrepreneurship that is competitive in the European Union and in the global economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u120	I'm not sure I heard you vote. Mrs. Masha Kociper would like to explain [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u121	I voted in favour of justice and I will vote in favour of responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u122	Here you go, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u123	To ensure that the universal Slovenia and the public, which has been listening to us for about 8 hours a day on this subject for the third day, is even insanely interested, clearly what the coalition will vote for, would repeat a decision that the coalition has already adopted and concerns precisely responsibility and says: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that it is important for the judiciary and the prosecution to be aware of their responsibilities in terms of both greater efficiency and accountability for the work and mistakes of judicial officials and to ensure their proper sanctioning." I don't think it can be any clearer than that. We directly call on the judicial branch of the authorities to be strict and responsible in this regard, so that all this talk was indeed intended for something else. Thank you very much. We will vote against this proposal from the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you want to explain your voice. Perhaps someone else would like to explain the voice that you are now applying and then we are voting. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The fact that the situation in the judiciary is alarming is no news. If the most responsible in the judiciary say that there is no objective responsibility for them, then we can be gravely concerned. The covenant signed today or yesterday means, in fact, nothing will happen at the summit of justice. This gave some legitimacy to those who are responsible for the situation in the judiciary, and that does not work. And I think that the National Assembly is an institution or must be an institution that can propose to the State Prosecutor's Council and the Council of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate liability procedures against the holders of judicial functions. With regard to all these scandals that have taken place in these years, many have also been enlightened today, and some of them in previous days, it is entirely reasonable to expect that a process of accountability for poor work will also be initiated within the judiciary and the prosecution. We already have the opportunity or people have the opportunity to identify medical errors and procedures in the courts. The only thing that cannot be realized in this country is judicial error, for every time an initiative comes, a request for a trial against a judge is made in the National Assembly of Coalitions to grant immunity. If we do not do everything we can to ensure that cleansing occurs both within the state prosecutor's office and within the judiciary, then we have missed a significant opportunity to begin liability procedures in this area at all. I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Please proceed procedurally, Mr. Mitja Mersholj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I propose that Member Grimes apologize to the Members, whom he has considered voting against justice. Indeed, if we voted against the expression of justice in some context, this does not mean that we voted against justice, Mr Member. I hope you've learned something in your life, perhaps even in terms of terminology. We voted against the expression, as if we might say that in some context the word love is not exactly chosen and that it should be hatred, and then you would say that we voted against love. Please apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-07-SDZ6-Izredna-38.ana.u128	We're moving to the vote. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Nicely greeted!
