ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Stefan Tisel and Mr Roberto Battelli. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 24 October 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. Before doing so, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is in line with the request of the assembly of Members and Members to decide on the decision of the College of the President of the State to propose a law on the non-transferable tax of defence following the urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 69th meeting on 23 October 2013 that the Proposal for a Real Estate Tax Law [[EPA 1543-VI]] , which has been submitted to the assembly by the Government for its consideration, is being dealt with by an emergency procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision of the College. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants to request Mr Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! The government of Alenka Bratusek is insatiable. It comes exclusively by raising taxes and taxes, by reducing the ease of families and by reducing transfers, by introducing new taxes and other burdens, and so is the property tax. Citizens understand and understand that the belt must be tightened at difficult times. That's what more or less each of us does when we're in trouble. Then we make an inventory, separate the essentials from the nonessentials, delete what we cannot finance. If there are no conditions for luxury, let us not afford it. This government didn't do it. It has not carried out any rationalisation, no removal of unnecessary costs, nor has it extended any privileges. On the contrary, even where this is not necessary, for example in the controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probank, you have provided a superstandard solution, more favourable than prescribed by law. The net budgetary cost of protection for non-ethical, clientistic and also illegal behaviour of owners, members of administrations, supervisors, privileged investors and privileged borrowers in these two banks will be at least EUR 400 million according to the Government and Banka Slovenije. This is as much as the gross effects of the real estate tax law are foreseen. Is it necessary for you to burden all citizens and the economy with such acts of elite individuals? It doesn't have to be, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. Why would we split the penalty for the crooks in these two banks into everything? You will especially burden those you have always hidden from them the actual situation and tell them stories about the good condition of these two banks and of all the other banks – this year, in these months. You are unable to implement the provisions of the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin and taken away from those who have stolen much of their property. If only something of this were confiscated every year, whether in real estate or in money, this property tax would not be needed. The solution for those poor people who cannot pay this tax to sit on their property, on their properties, is cynicism without chance. Those who stole our property were guaranteed full protection by the government and the coalition. We have seen this twice in the last month because you have not supported our proposals to publish information on irregularities in both Taiwanese banks. Those who are unable to pay property taxes because of difficult circumstances or because of bankruptcy or other circumstances are beneficiaries of a protective allowance will be able to nationalize what little they have suffered. If this proposal for a real estate tax law is implemented, it will be implemented in the last 6 months, since we have the government of Alenka Bratušek, every citizen is burdened with about 500 euros of additional burden – about the amount of minimum wage. Such are the effects of increased taxes and other charges, reduction of social transfers, deterioration of income benefits, etc. All are dissatisfied with this law because of irregularities and injustices: chambers – crafts, economic, agricultural – unions, municipalities, more or less all citizens and also a large part of politics. All of these are the fear of tomorrow. Mr President, before deciding on this request, I propose that you order a 20-minute recess for consultation in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u3	We have a procedural proposal to grant a 20-minute recess before deciding. Mr. Han, if you please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u4	Otherwise, I accept Mr Jozet Tank's proposal, but I would politely ask him to visit the IMF, which is now in the house and is waiting for us in the next room, and if we want to be credible and talk to them about the key issues, perhaps you will find it easier to agree, take a little more time off so that some of us can discuss with the gentlemen at the IMF in order to take 45 minutes of breaks to finish our conversation with the gentlemen who are waiting in the next room. I understand your concern, your view, but because of the people who have come from Europe to listen to what we are doing in Slovenia, it is right to at least finish the conversation we started at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u5	Thank you. In view of Mr Tank's procedural proposal that they need a 20-minute recess before the decision is taken, and since there is no debate and no explanation for the vote, this moment has come up with this proposal, so I am adjourning the meeting. Since we will start the regular session at 10 a.m., we will continue this meeting on Tuesday, 10 minutes after the end of this regular session. Thank you.
