ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-04-SDZ6-Izredna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 3, Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Roberto Battelli and Dr László Göncz. I invited representatives of the State Election Commission and candidates for Members to the A1 agenda item and representatives of the Government. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 4 February, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by examining the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office of a Member who has terminated his term of office and by appointing candidates who will act as Members instead of Members acting as Secretary of State in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. You received an extension proposal today on 4 February. I'm asking if the government's representative would like a word. He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? You don't want to. I am concluding a discussion on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision or a vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference and with an already voted supplement. We're voting on the agenda. There are 74 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to A1. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S THE DETERMINATION OF THE CANDIOT, WHICH IS IN ACCORDANCE WITH 17. A Member of the Law on Love in the National Assembly shall become a Member for the remainder of the mandate of the Member to whom the mandate has been given and the determination of the candidates to be in accordance with 14. The Member of the Business Act was responsible for the function of the Members of the Commission instead of the Members of the Commission, who are responsible for the function of the Secretaries of State. Since Mr Branko Marinič’s resignation as a Member on 1 February 2013 ended the mandate of the Member of Parliament, the State Election Commission forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the Member had been transferred to Mr Andrej Couch. Because they were mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mag. Marko Pogačnik appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members as from 1 February 2013, cannot act as Members as long as they serve as Secretaries of State. The National Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly conclusions on which candidates have the right to replace Members who have served as State secretaries. These are Mr. Sasha Ciegler and Mr. Rado Likar. The conclusions of the National Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions, and you received the report. Does the Commission rapporteur want a word? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: Confirm the mandate of Mr Andrei Couch, born on 29 July 1990, resident of Cyril-Method treered 9, Ptuj. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: At a time when the MEP mag. Mr Saša Cigler, born on 13 February 1972, residing in Zbilje 33, Medvod, is acting as Secretary of State in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: At a time when the MEP mag. Marko Pogačnik, acting as State Secretary, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, performs this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from 4 February 2013 Mr Rado Likar, born on 21 April 1959, residing in Title 31, Black top of Idrija. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Members to join us and take their seats. I wish them to be successful in the work of Members of Parliament. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly for 15 minutes to prepare the assembly services for the part of the meeting without public presence. We'll continue the meeting at 4:40 p.m. 1/1. Agenda item — DETAILING TO THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE MEMORANDE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA IN THE ARBITARITY AS FOLLOWS TO THE ARBITIONAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, Signed on 4. IN NOVEMBER 2009, FROM THE BASIC, AS REFERRED TO IN ANNEX 1 A, EPA 970-VI The National Assembly shall examine this point without public presence. The open part of the meeting was closed on 4 February 2013 at 16.23.
