ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member, Mag. Diane Jedhan. I welcome all those present once again. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on working relations in the framework of the regular procedure. On Thursday, 28 February 2013, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as the proposer of the draft law, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. Procedural mag. Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Let me give you a message. As far as I am aware, the amendment has already been tabled at this point in time or with the moment of the meeting, so I suggest, if not otherwise, that we take a five-minute break or that we harmonise because, as far as I am aware, the amendment is ready and has already been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u3	Thank you for this procedural notice. I think it would be most appropriate for us to stop the meeting and suggest that we continue at 9.10. I'm adjourning the session until 9.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u4	We're moving on to the session. After the interruption, I must warn you that the announced amendment was tabled after the initiation of the hearing, so that I cannot put it into consideration. I reiterate that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. This provision is set out in Article 140. The third paragraph speaks of the possibility for amendments to be tabled before the opening of the hearing and the consideration of this point has already begun once this amendment has been tabled, so that I cannot put it into discussion. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much, President, again. I understand that the procedure is the way it is, and I believe that we may have missed a minute, not anymore, given that I have the information that the amendment was supposed to be on the way to the depository, at the moment the meeting began. I'll say I'm sorry that important things are falling through the procedure. For a minute, I believe that she was swimming on water, a solution that is welcome and would be very positive for older workers, in terms of additional protection of the so-called protected category. But, as it is said, I am sorry that such important substantive matters fall under the procedure, which are also consistent with the future coalition. But, as I say, the procedure is like this, and I will personally respect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u6	Thanks for understanding. We'll proceed with the hearing. I would like to inform you that I have not been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted at the second reading of the draft law would have made the proposal inconsistent. By moving on to a decision on the bill. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? He does. I am opening an application for notification to the debate on behalf of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mrs. Romani Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u7	Thank you so much for saying that. Labour reform is the last of the five most important sets of changes prepared by the Government for the exit from the crisis. In just one year of operation, the Government has managed to reduce expenditure and spending in a very difficult situation so that we can adopt the budget and thus ensure the smooth functioning of the public sector and of all the functions of the state. The law has succeeded in laying the groundwork for more efficient and transparent governance of state property. It has been able to prepare the basis for the resolution of the banking sector, has managed to prepare and harmonise pension reform and has also prepared a labour reform. In order for changes in the labour market to be necessary, it has been very clear years ago and today this need is even stronger. We're in a situation where young people are happy if they even get the chance to train, even if it's free. We are in a situation where employees are happy to have regular monthly incomes and settled contributions. We are in a situation where the unemployed, who are over 50 years of age and who are at the employment agency, no longer hope to be employed at all. The crisis has contributed greatly, but not all. The Labour Relations Act is one of those that has deterred employment. In an enabling economic environment, there is also encouraging labour legislation. This is not only the objective of entrepreneurs, but is the aim of all employees who want to ensure their existence through work. They expect that, in addition to good working conditions, quality jobs and payments for work, they will also have adequate social security when they lose their jobs. We are probably from the ideal situation today, when we have more than 120 000 unemployed people, but in Slovenia, the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act are still a major step forward. Perhaps no one, neither employers nor unions nor governments, is fully satisfied with what he has accomplished. Surely we will have to continue looking for better solutions in the future. However, a compromise has been reached and all parties recognise that they have succeeded in achieving what is most important to them. Very few examples will be found in modern practice, where the government would succeed in reforming so important, so difficult, to bring it into line with all the social partners. That's why the government, the minister, all the negotiators, all the congratulations and so bravely continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u8	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! No, the law is not harmonised. This is a message from today's meeting. In the time period in which we found ourselves when we allowed the third consideration of the law to happen, what we expected happened was the least. At the same time, employers have passed the will to negotiate and have been forced in a grave way not to harmonise Article 223, an article that protects the rights of older workers from forgiveness. It's such a small matter as easing the transition. We have already made a number of mistakes in the wake of the pension reform because of the swift, swift decisions, the mistakes we will have to make now. Something similar is happening to us in this marriage. Just a little bit of will was still needed to bring it together, but no. The brilliant Minister of Negotiations has cancelled here and we have not come to a harmonised law. The law isn't in line. Syndicates say it's not consistent. The fact is, it's in the Labour Relations Act. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. President, can you please keep it down?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u10	Just a minute. If you can listen to Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič – the only word he has in this room and please take this into account! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u11	In the Labour Relations Act, employers also benefited greatly. There are 38 measures that are intended to enhance the competitiveness of the economy and only 15 measures that could be attributed to maximum benefits for workers or trade unions. Respect for the need to adapt to the circumstances in which we live in the global economy has been very great, so on behalf of the SD Group, I am deeply disappointed that this harmonisation has not taken place. How we will vote on the law will be decided after the consultation of the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u12	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Jana Jenko, on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u13	Thank you so much for saying that. All of you, welcome! We have before us the approval of a small working constitution, we can say, because it is a matter of amending the labour law that was urgently needed. In doing so, I note that employers have suffered much more than workers, but we must not neglect the achievements for workers, as this is a achievement in preventing the employment chain for a certain period of time. I don't know how that's gonna work out in practice. It's gonna take a lot of work to get the inspection services to check it out. It is positive that the dismissed worker will also accept retirement in the case of a fixed-term contract. However, I do not agree with the removal or earlier it was in law to limit employment for a certain period or quotas. This doesn't seem right to me that it went out that the quotas were only left at agency work. That's actually the scariest thing I've ever done. It is quite yet to be completed under the Labour Relations Act. I hope that the changes will take place as soon as possible because the worker is becoming less protected, unfortunately. He's out of work, and what's left of him is under question. I think it is necessary to greatly strengthen the inspection services and the employer's awareness that the worker is what his acquisition is about, his success. When I listened to employers during the negotiations, they were very dissatisfied with what was achieved, but I think it is very unjustifiable. You probably want to go a hundred years ago when the worker was really working for a minimum wage. But it doesn't work anymore. Employers, too, have somehow forgotten that payments of contributions have been released to a considerable extent a few years ago, while workers have remained the same as before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u14	Thank you, too. The next word is Mr Richard Braniselj, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u15	Thank you, President. Colleagues, colleagues! Just out of respect for negotiating partners who have done a great job, we will not oppose this law. But we won't even support him. It's hard to make a good product out of bad material. The proposal that went between the negotiating partners was already bad at first, and we regret that we did not take the time and make a product that could lead to a better result, which could actually be said to be some kind of reform, some breakthrough. I'm afraid that's not the case. The minister tried, and I can congratulate him here. He was an excellent mediator. He managed to unify the negotiating partners, but the country's contribution to this process is just this. The new government, whatever it may be, will have to take immediate action to reform the legislative material, in the sense that employers are burdened by the social sector, which remains in the Labour Relations Act, in particular in the sense of forming a retirement fund, which must be transferred to somewhere else and not to the burden of employers, as well as certain rights that the employer is subject to health reform. This requires a systemic solution and not just some cosmetic adjustments. All congrats that negotiators have managed to reconcile themselves to some extent, and there will be a major problem in the eyes – the signatory to this agreement is not the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises. This means that it is precisely this chamber that brings together small, medium-sized enterprises and independent entrepreneurs, those employers who need a breakthrough and who are dependent on the start of the economy, new jobs, this law has not been recognized for its own and has not joined it. The citizens' list has offered some good amendments. Unfortunately, they weren't accepted. They were good. One of these is that in the first two years of a newly established firm or independent entrepreneur can employ for a certain period of time and there is the possibility of new jobs, decommissioning the economy and a new economic breakthrough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u16	Thank you, too. The next debate is Mrs Jasmina Opec on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian People's Party for more than a decade, we have called for the revision of labour legislation, legislation that would contribute to the better competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and at the same time provide employees with sufficient security to carry out their work with satisfaction. The proposal for a new law on working relations that we have before us today, which we will adopt in its final form, is not the best thing we want, for the needs and expectations of the Slovenian economy, and we cannot be completely satisfied with it. We would like to hear more about entrepreneurs and craftsmen and that legislation would be more favourable to young job seekers who are most often subject to exploitative forms of work. However, in the Slovenian People's Party we respect the social agreement and we are aware that in the current sociopolitical situation, what is now achieved is the maximum. In the hope that this is the first step towards what we want to be and become, this is a country of opportunity and the future, we will support a new law on working relations in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u18	Thank you, too. The interest was expressed to explain the votes of Members and Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, he wishes to explain his vote [[...]] Would you like to proceed immediately? Procedurally has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before voting, I shall request a 15-minute recess to consult the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u20	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, he shall have the word mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Allow me at the end to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. I must say that we have been constructively engaged throughout the negotiations both by the Members and, on the other hand, by the Minister as well as, at least as far as we have had the opportunity to see on the committees and even at the meeting itself, by all the social partners. Otherwise it is true, and we are aware that if you want to give something to someone on one side, you take something away from them, and there is no marriage for either one or the other as we all would like together. The law is not fully compatible with the social partners. It has to be admitted. At the outset, the basic position of Positive Slovenia was that we would support the law if it was coordinated at least at the key points. Once again, I must say that I am disappointed that an important amendment has fallen on the procedure today. The amendment, which, as far as I am aware of it, was also supported by the minister. I'm sorry that the Minister couldn't make it to the end. I'm going to say, willingly or bravely, that, because this is an option, an existing coalition, as far as it's concerned, has tabled an amendment in the third reading. But no matter what, positive Slovenia has also achieved certain things that have a positive impact on the legislation itself in the course of the negotiations or the improvement of the law in the National Assembly. If I mention it, because I just heard on the radio today how labour legislation violates the rights of the unemployed, because they are not going to have a 100 % compensation after the news, but only an 80 % compensation – I must say that this is absolutely not the case. Already today, the unemployed have an 80 percent compensation in the first trimester. It is true, however, that it is the Members of the Positive Slovenia and, if I am not mistaken, that the SD have also tabled an amendment in the parliamentary procedure, with which we made the initial proposal of the minister, which, by 80%, replaced it in the first trimester, corrected it and maintained it at the existing version or level of 80%. For the basic position we advocate is that if we want to follow the principle of safe flexibility, it is important that, if we forgive workers more easily, appropriate safeguards should be put in the legislation on the one hand, which still protects or represents an adequate level of social protection for the worker. Given that the law is not in perfect harmony – I do not think we will oppose it. But if we're perfect [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u22	Thank you. Before I ask if anyone else wants to explain their voice, I would like to remind you that, at this stage, when we explain our vote or on behalf of the parliamentary group or as a Member and Member, the Minister cannot respond to the obvious or, say, give a complementary position. So I ask you to take this into account in your explanations. I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening the application. The first one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of the law. Not because the marriage would be so good, but because it is a law that corresponds to the degree of spiritual development and perception in Slovenia. I congratulate the Minister on his success in selling this as a labour market reform. This is far from comparable legislation in neighbouring countries, such as Austria. Why? Labour law must be such as to protect, in particular, productive jobs. The protection of productive jobs must be the fundamental purpose of such legislation. Labour legislation that does not pursue this objective is harmful to workers, as it consumes those jobs that would remain if labour legislation were good. It is harmful for businesses because it weakens their development and conservation power and is harmful for the country, as more and more people are landing at the office of work. That's what's going on with us. A law that restricts work — what country do we live in, that we write in laws, that you should not work, that students should not work on a certain number of hours, and that pensioners should not work? Nobody's allowed to work! So let's stop the work! Let's accept the law that it's forbidden to work. In the second line, what country do we live in that when an employer signs a contract with an employee, he is his hostage and harms workers and harms the state and harms himself? This is what we are able to accept at this point, and we should accept what we are able to accept. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u24	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this law, despite the fact that in all articles, in all nuances, a law like this can never be harmonised because we have many different interests in several areas. So I am sure that this was the optimism that was achieved at this point in time. That's why, on my part, congratulations to the department with the minister in charge. As far as the examination is concerned, there was a previous comment on the third reading at the same meeting. Given that I was still involved in determining the working or handling of these two points, including the law that we have as the next item on the agenda, the Labour Market Regulation Act, we have therefore given a second reading on Thursday, last week, and the third reading on Tuesday, so today that for the third reading, if there is any other need, there is still enough time for the amendments to be tabled. So this criticism of being dealt with in some haste is not the best place to be. As far as the principle of this law or my support is concerned, this is one of the laws, one of the measures to be taken in order to promote economic development. After all, the development of the economy, the economic development of the foundations of everything else, all other developments and the greatest possible satisfaction of all citizens and citizens. That's why, as I say, I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u26	Thank you, too. The next debater is Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, I think he's following us somewhere. In this last act, I also announce support for labour market reform, support for the Labour Relations Act and the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act. The same will be done by my colleague and my colleague in the New Slovenia Group. I would also like to thank and congratulate the negotiating teams, all of them, especially the minister and his team. I think Minister Vizjak has created some school model to negotiate. He first proved this by negotiating the pension reform and this time again. I think that this school model could teach future negotiators a lot. For us, it is crucial to understand that no party is radically opposed to any of the key issues in terms of labour market reform. I am also sure that, in my opinion, the reform of the work could be slightly better, but what we have today on the table, which also the Presidents of the parliamentary parties in the President of the Republic have committed themselves to supporting, is, at this moment, in this social situation in Slovenia, I am optimistic that I am not even saying the maximum. During this time we talked a lot about flexibility, flexibility, etc. I think that in the future, the legislator, the National Assembly, must be more flexible and that it must more frequently adapt and consider labour market reform as a constant if we are to be competitive in this extremely hard global world. Congratulations to negotiating teams, congratulations and all recognition to Minister Mag. Visionary. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I declare support for both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u28	Thank you, too. The next panellist is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u29	Thank you. Nice greetings for me as well, Minister with a team, president, colleagues and colleagues! I will support the bill because it is a compromise proposal concluded with all the social partners, on the one hand with the Government, on the other hand with the unions, on the third hand with employers. Today, we have heard a few sentences about how the provision of Article 223, if I have correctly written down, should not be harmonised. It came at the last minute by the unions and, in my opinion, if three partners are involved in the negotiations and if one of them disagrees, it means that the law is not yet inconsistent. So I still believe that the law is harmonised. I've even had my doubts. There was very little coordination with Members, although at least the Members of the SDS Group were actively involved in the draft law itself and also in the various procedures. Every time we meet with the Minister, we have come to the conclusion that our solutions will be presented to the social partners, but if they do not comply or support this solution unanimously, this solution will not go through the parliamentary board. I don't like a lot of solutions within the law either. I would like to give more initiative and more words to employers. Why? As we all advocated social dialogue, we all advocated the development of the economy, new jobs, etc. But, I say, this law is a compromise, and the Minister was willing to conclude compromises. Some in the previous term were not prepared to do so, so I will support the law, and I am very surprised that today, when some new positions appear within the National Assembly, there are also new words within these positions. I'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u30	Thank you, too. The next panellist is Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. In an effective shorter time than one year, Minister Vizjak has brought or will bring through the National Assembly two capital reforms, pension reform and labour market reform, a common three laws. If there were no social dialogue, it would probably not have been possible to do so, as it was not possible to do so in the previous term of office three times over the longer term. I think we've all missed one fact. There's an OECD meeting in Paris tomorrow. It will also address Slovenia. The adoption of these two laws is crucial for the award of annual evaluations, the OECD assessment, which will be the basis for Slovenia's annual evaluations. I do not think that the consideration and adoption of these two laws is necessary to play because the OECD reports, as I said earlier, have longer effects, have greater consequences than this overplay with regard to individual provisions. Although some of you have overlooked this fact, I suggest that you make a good commitment to this work. It doesn't matter where Slovenia is classified. It does not matter what assessment it will receive, because this also means a basis for credit rating agencies, this also means a basis for deciding on the lenders that we will still need, and this also means an extremely high cost at the end if this package is not adopted. I'll support both marriages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u32	Thank you, too. I take it you've given the floor to all those who wanted to explain your voice. Does anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Opening login option. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. I can only say the following. I will give my support to this law, in particular in order to be able to criticize someone who has led these negotiations. The negotiations were difficult, extensive. Slovenia must be aware that, above all, the non-competitiveness of the Slovenian economy at this time is a key foundation of the country's destiny. The Labour Relations Act is the basis of our competitiveness, which gives us a new basis in this European society so that our economy can finally be put aside and our entrepreneurs can finally be set aside by the countries that have such legislation. The former law was quite outdated, mainly supporting workers who were not motivated in certain jobs. The key to this law is to look at the following perspective: this is the story that the Slovenian economy must adapt extremely quickly at this time, especially in the large part of the economy, which is a subcontractor of large multinationals, and that every employer in the field is extremely afraid to employ a large number of workers on short notice when it needs them when it has orders. This law lays this groundwork, precisely by adapting to market conditions. He's normal, and I'm giving him all the support. I don't understand those who were with you as coalition partners, but now you're questioning one article. It's politics, it's something that's not serious, it's an unrealistic policy. I think the future will show what are serious politicians and will separate them from unserious politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Breznik. I would just like to point out that, in the process of explaining the voice, it is not possible to give an answer to whether or not someone is a serious politician, so please take this into account in further explanations of vote. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yesterday, I had no problem voting. I intended to support the Labour Relations Act because I considered it to be a law that is consistent with the social partners. I must say that I have often felt ashamed to receive support from those amendments, for example, advocates of the principle of equal treatment, which were certainly good, but because they were not in line with the social partners, they were not supported. This has been my internal distress, how as a member once a hundred percent respect social dialogue and it is not considered that I have pressed the button as an automatic, but if it is a coalition proposal or someone else, that is how it is considered. I must say, I find the moralization of some who have strongly opposed all reform attempts in the previous government unsavoury. The OECD is not from today, the OECD will not have a first meeting tomorrow to discuss reforms. Therefore, when we talk about political responsibility, we should ask ourselves where this political responsibility was a year or two ago. This does not mean that any change that takes place on the workers’ shoulders is acceptable to me. This is the reason why we will consult in the parliamentary group on how we will proceed with the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u36	Thank you, too. I'm guessing everyone who signed up has their word. Is there anyone else who would like to explain his voice? I guess not. Therefore, in accordance with the procedural proposal submitted by the Magi. Majda Potrat, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I hereby grant a 15-minute recess, so that we continue the meeting at 10.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u37	We're continuing our session. After consulting the Group of Social Democrats, I ask if he wants mag. Majda Potrat to give the position of the Group of Social Democrats on the vote. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. The time that we have requested has been spent on finding again that 38 measures are in favour of employers and only 15 which are in favour of workers in the harmonisation of labour law. Nevertheless, we will stick to the agreement that has been concluded, including with the President of the State, and we will not oppose the adoption of the law, but we will vote differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u39	Thank you, too. We are moving to the vote, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Once again, congratulations to the Minister. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act under the ordinary procedure. On Thursday, 28 February 2013, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, so I would like to inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour force or the National Assembly in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. First of all, I would like to ask you if there is an interest in explaining the vote on behalf of the groups. I'm opening the application. Please sign up, on behalf of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u40	Thank you. Say good-bye to everyone again! I'll be very brief. This law has also made a great deal of effort to bring the social partners into line with each other, so that, once again, this city congratulates Minister Viszak for reaching solutions with the social partners that are probably not in everyone's best interests, but they are harmonised, and they are part of the compromise, which some have failed in the previous mandate. The more important solutions that this law brings are certainly for both employers and employees. Let me reiterate that when this law is passed, the future coalition will have one less programme in its agenda. Her work will therefore be much easier, and I therefore believe that the opposition will also support the efforts of the current coalition, as well as the efforts of the ministry, and will unanimously support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u41	Thank you, too. There is no interest expressed on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain their voice in their own name. I'm guessing not, so we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that in 15 minutes, at 10:30, the 11th meeting of the National Assembly will begin.
