ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Maja Dimitrovski, Mr Jožef Kunič, Mr Zvonko Černač and Mr Roberto Battelli. I have invited the President of the Government, the Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, Mr Ladislav Lipic, and the President of the Union of Veterans of the North, Mr Miho Molan, as the representative of the 5,000 voters and voters, to the 12th item of the agenda, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Mrs Vlasto Nussdorfer, 20th item of the agenda, the President of the Council of Justice, Mr Janez Vlaj, 21st item of the agenda, and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome all those present once again. We are moving on to the agenda of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 11 October 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, we must decide on two requirements for a decision on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 67th meeting on 11 October 2013 that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, EPA 1497-VI, and the draft Law on Medicinal Products, EPA 1508-VI, should be considered on an urgent basis. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 26 and 23 Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank, were required to decide on those decisions by the National Assembly. Thus, on the basis of paragraph 143, third paragraph. I give the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly first to consider the request of the Group of Members and Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, EPA 1497-VI, following an urgent procedure. I give the floor first to the representative of the applicant to request Mr Jožet Tank to re-submit the request in this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Respectable members of the government, Madam President! The government's approach to taking measures is always the same, nowhere does the government come with any rationalisation, nowhere is any proposal for a serious approach to saving, nor is there any serious review of whether the system is acting in accordance with the objectives and expectations or not. It is said that there is no need to verify whether improvements are needed, whether improvements are needed or not. As a result, all over-the-counter deformations in the systems financed by the budget are not essentially eliminated. In fact, everything is in line with the paradigm that the public sector is untouchable. The only approach that this government knows is either to increase existing taxes, or to introduce new taxes, or to increase contributions to those that are difficult to cover. And apparently, the government will first just calculate what it needs and then try to put what it needs into effect as quickly as possible. Instead of a number of incentives and incentives, there are only various forms of additional burdens on the economy, for individual economic operators, for independent entrepreneurs. Even those who do not have resources are subject to additional burdens. Things are going in a completely different direction. We also discussed the banking system in this hall a good month ago. There, the Minister of Finance and the Governor informed us that the government will issue enormous guarantees for two small banks in bankruptcy or in controlled liquidation. And even so far this proposal has gone to cover all the obligations — including those who have possibly committed crimes in management, management of these two banks, or administration or supervisors, and so on. To this end, the government has provided a billion euros, more than a billion euros. At least 400 million will go net from the budget to pay these commitments and an important part of this will also be for those who have committed in these banking procedures in these two banks also likely to commit crimes. Health care by this law receives only a tenth of this money, which will result in a net outflow in this banking work. I think the government should somehow be better at dividing priorities. Instead of taking away those who have caused a bank hole and are rolling in large assets at home and abroad, you are now taking all those tiny esperies that are trying to do their job, with your economic activity to ensure survival for yourself and for your families. I think that the government should take money where it is and not burden those who struggle with these things after this economic activity. I suggest, I hope the coalition will support our proposal at least this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Although there is no discussion about the request and neither is the explanation for the vote, we are moving on to a decision. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance shall be considered on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. The rest of you can check the functioning of the voting devices at this time. Is he okay? Once again, we are moving on to a decision on the decision to deal with the law on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 35. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, that proposal for a law will be dealt with by the assembly following an urgent procedure on Friday, 25 October 2013. We are moving on to the next proposal. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are still moving on to the request of the Group of Members and Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the draft Law on Medicinal Products, EPA 1508-VI, following an urgent procedure. I give my word to the proposer first. He doesn't want to. As I said before, there is no debate and no explanation for the vote, so we are moving on to a decision. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a drug law shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 52. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and that the assembly will therefore consider the proposal for a law following a regular procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 15-day deadline for the submission of a request for a general debate on a proposal for a law begins today. The third item of the agenda is therefore irrelevant and is therefore withdrawn from the agenda of this meeting. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference and in accordance with the adopted amendment to the Medicinal Products Act. We're voting on the agenda. There are 83 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 18th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received 44 written applications for questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, both by the members of the opposition and by the Member of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and ministers shall reply to questions within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, I ask that you pay attention to this when you ask questions. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The MP who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this item on the agenda, I inform you that the following ministers have apologized for today: Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Uroš Chufer, Minister for Finance, and Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. The e-club also provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the deadline of business. But first, we are moving on to a presentation of the questions addressed to the President of the Government. The question will first be raised by Mrs Romana Tomc, Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go. Before this procedure, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have a notice before us that how many questions have been sent have not been answered within the deadline foreseen. I would like to remind you that four of my fellow Members have asked questions of the Members, namely, two ministers, three Mr Plitschani and one Minister of Labour Anja Kopač Mrak. There are no answers to these questions for two months or four months, from two to four months. You yourself said earlier that the Government must answer the question within 30 days even if there is no answer today. Now I see here that Mr Gorenak should be answered by Minister Pličanič on 30 June, on one other question, on 17 July, the Minister of Labour, on 1 August, as well as by the Minister of Justice, on 19 August. These excesses are several times higher than those allowed or than those normal deadlines for the answer, so I would like to ask the ministers to at least answer if we get these answers in due time, because the delay of two, four months or more would actually erase the meaning of the question. We are not then talking about the answer to the questions of the Members, but about some information, something that may not be up to date. I think that the leadership of the National Assembly, in particular Mr President, should also ensure that there is not such a long delay in answering the questions. In some cases, however, these are important things, such as investigating the suspicions of crimes in the New Ljubljana Bank. We know that the banking system is crucial at this time and there are no answers to important questions. I'd like to ask you to ensure that this comes in good time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for this important procedural warning. I hope that all the ministers and ministers present and present have heard this warning, and in fact we expect the National Assembly to have answers to questions within the time frame of business, and it may also be possible that today, in the context of the answers of the individual minister to which the question relates, somehow, we can expect this answer, but until when can we expect it? However, the answer must come as soon as possible from today's procedural warning. We are moving on to the first question of the Parliamentary question to the President of the Government and Mrs Roman Tomc, the Slovenian Democratic Party, is the first to raise this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, ministers and ministers! Slovenian citizens are living worse and their real income is falling, and they are also worried about the uncertain future. By measures which stifle the economy and which destroy the social state in the long term, you are putting an ever-increasing burden on their shoulders. Many of these burdens are no longer able and are forced to ask for social assistance. As if that hadn't been enough, in this case, if I may say so, the state still sits on their property. The security allowance received by those who have the lowest pensions has long been no longer part of the pension, no longer a social benefit, it is just a long-term loan that they will have to repay, if not others, their descendants. A similar trap is promised at a real estate tax. If someone can't pay the tax, the state will burden his property. The country from the budget or from other funds, the treasury pays a number of expenses, various subsidies, non-refundable aid, ratings and also some outstanding pensions. For example, PPIZ pays more than tens of thousands of outstanding pensions, and their payments go beyond the financial effects of the many laws we adopt here in the National Assembly. In 2012 alone, more than €62 million was paid for so-called fighting pensions, which are still in the hands of nearly 18,000 and retired former military insurers, for those who receive part of the pension as they used to be employed in the JLA service, so in five years 300 million euros, even though these pensions do not have any basis for paid contributions. They are therefore paid from public funds and do not share fate as other funds, which are also paid out of the budget. For them, the State has not recorded any obligation to repay and return to the budget. The country requires a refund from some recipients, but not from others. And it's a distinct treatment. Dear President: How can you guarantee that we are still living in a social state where social assistance represents only credit? What will you do to ensure that all beneficiaries receive equal treatment?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you. I give my word to the President of the Magnificent Government. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much, honourable Member. However, I am very pleased that I am also getting questions about the social state on this side of Parliament. When last year, when I sat with you in the parliamentary benches once all night, we passed the Public Finance Balance Act, somehow you weren't so socially sensitive. I would like to tell you that I think you already have two social laws in the National Assembly that will regulate certain things that have been somewhat less regulated in the last two years. It should be made clear that the fact that both the Public Finance Balance Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds have to a certain extent infringed social legislation. Therefore, it is also irresponsible to say that when we are preparing measures, we are preparing them only on the revenue side. The fact is that there have been considerable savings in this area if we look at 2012 and beyond. We can also go through the law, which will make improvements in this law so that social weaknesses are better than they are today after the adoption of your Public Finance Balance Act. As far as pensions are concerned, the honourable Member, I believe that you know that we have received a constitutional decision as a country by which we must return these pensions, and that is why our work is even more difficult. I hope that you do not suggest that our government make the same mistake as your government did when it went in violation of Article 143 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, because this is not the same country for everyone, and the Constitutional Court has also said that. As I said before, this makes it difficult to consolidate public finances – I think about 50 million euros will have to pay for what you then took from people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you very much again. Dear President, I have not asked you what the previous government has done wrong, I have asked you what you will do to ensure a just and equal social state for all. True, you are correcting the Law on Social Protection, which was adopted at the time of Minister Svetlik, but these corrections will not yet ensure those necessary changes in this area. And with other measures such as new tax burdens, the situation in the country will deteriorate further. The social peace that you have bought by not interfering with the public sector cannot be compared to the preservation of the social state. On the contrary, this will further threaten the social state in the long run. Direct reduction of pensions and direct reduction of salaries is not the only way to reduce the social situation of pensioners and employees. You're proving that you're doing this in a much more sophisticated way. Instead of raising your income rate, you simply shut down coordination. Instead of selectively reaching out to the highest extraordinary pensions, you have frozen the coordination of all pensions. You will reach out to the property of those who receive social benefits. But you will not touch the extraordinary pensions and all these privileges. Dear President, since all taxpayers, including those on social assistance, will also pay their debts to banks, I ask you again: Does it seem fair to you that those who are the weakest pay this burden, while others who receive extraordinary ratings, do not receive extraordinary supplements? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you. I'm giving the President of the Government the opportunity to complete my response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you. Dear Member, the social state is also that all children have free education, free healthcare. With interventions in the public sector, as you and your client or your president have proposed, this would be impossible for people to do so, this should be paid. This is the first thing that the social state does not just mean transfers from the state budget. As far as income relief and non-valorisation are concerned, I think it is right that we should also state publicly that a person with an average monthly salary in the Republic of Slovenia will have to pay about 2 euros more in income due to this law, depending on whether or not he has a registered child. Two euros a month. This, I think it is right to tell our citizens clearly and honestly. But we can go through the law when you say we don't do anything for the weakest, and we'll see what we can do in the two laws you have on the table. For single-parent families, we introduce an increase in the allowance for single-parent families per child for cash social assistance. We introduce only part of the child allowance in other rights under the law, what is paid from public funds. In adults and older recipients of social transfers, people who are permanently unemployed, permanently unable to work or are unemployed, and who are over 63 years of age, or 65 years of age, men or families with such a person, are introduced to take into account the money of a single person up to EUR 2 000 500 or a family up to EUR 3 000 500, but are significantly lower. A few more things could, and I will be running out of time, we are going through very concretely, including scholarships for underage students in half the amount that applies to full-year students or students, keeping the amount of children's allowance for underage students who are not eligible for a state scholarship. This applies to the sixth income class and so on. Two more sides are these measures that improve the social situation of the weakest we have received – after any government already, Member? Once again, we will not take anti-constitutional measures, unlike you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc has a motion for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Of course, I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the response of the President of the Government be discussed. Obviously, the President didn't understand my question. I didn't ask about the news in social legislation. I have asked you, Madam President, whether it seems fair to you that people with the lowest income are recipients of social assistance, recipients of protective allowances and those who are unable to pay the property tax are also punished by the State's recourse to their property. And on the other hand, does it seem fair to you that people who have been receiving extraordinary pensions for decades, who have created bank holes, Taiwan's credits, will not be affected by their assets. I've never heard of any of those who would declare personal bankruptcy. The distinguished President of the Government, for 116 thousand unemployed, for more than 50,000 people who receive a minimum wage, for more than 100,000 pension recipients whose pensions are below EUR 500, is an extremely important issue. An important question for them is whether they are still living in a just social state, whether they are given a relatively equal burden in solving the crisis, than those who have much more and who have not acquired what they have, not by work, not by honest life, but by some kind of ratings or in a suspicious way. You say that everyone should contribute equally to the resolution of the crisis. Your answers, your moves, raising taxes, raising the price of transport for school children, raising the price of vineyards and, last but not least, the real estate tax talk about how much you imagine the social state in your own way. Your words don't go along with your actions. With your actions, you destroy the social state, increase the differences between people and cause unrest and discontent between people. Therefore, once again, because the President of the Government has not answered any of my questions and because this is an extremely important issue that I will say to all the people in this country, I propose that we hold a broader debate on her answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you. With this we have completed the first question.We are moving on to the second one put by Mr Jakob Presečnik, Slovenian People's Party. But it will be answered by the President of the Government. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam President of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns investments or unconfirmed investment at the central Slovenian airport, at Ljubljana airport Brnik. The fact is, and we are certainly all aware that the central Slovenian airport is one of the most important windows in the world. Like Luka Koper, similar to the rail system, similar to road infrastructure, motorway projects, etc. So in the area of mobility of the population of Slovenia, and especially of people coming to Slovenia, it is certainly an important point, and if we close all of this, we can certainly close the country. The first phase at Brnik airport, i.e. I am summarizing some of the data that has been published in the media in these last months and are accessible to all, so the first phase was dedicated to rebuilding the airport in 2007, which is before the Presidency of Slovenia in Europe. The modernisation project of Brnik airport is included in the resolution on the National Civil Aviation Development Programme by 2020, which was also confirmed in previous references to the National Assembly. The project is endorsed by the European Commission on the co-financing of this necessary project. I think it is about EUR 15 million, which will be lost if this project is not implemented. The point is that the airport has around 35 million own resources and only partially, around 6 million, credit is required for this investment. The states have been deprived of voting rights, but the government has done nothing on the information to get these voting rights back. According to information provided by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, this investment is supported. In the congregation, however, small shareholders have rejected this investment, as is well - known, from what interests I do not know. I'm asking you what I've already stated in writing: What is your vision of the development of air transport in Slovenia, the development of the Brnik airport? How do you plan to ensure that the Ljubljana airport, regardless of ownership, remains a Slovenian window in the world, but mainly a serious player in the region and not just a branch of which of the surrounding airports? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you, too. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you, Your Honor! First, let me tell you that we wanted to gain voting rights. The court, which executes our assets, made this request, and unfortunately we were not heard. I will not go into the rights of other organs. The fact is, we were not allowed to vote in the assembly. As far as the development of this airport is concerned, I think we must all work together to increase the number of passengers at this airport – and more importantly to increase the number of destinations to be flown from this airport or from elsewhere to our airport. But why did the small shareholders decide as they did, and that's what you'll have to ask them, not me as president.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u19	Mr Jakob Preseknik has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u20	I think you have indicated the Government's positive wish to ensure that Brnik airport has a higher number of passengers. This increased number of passengers has actually been carried out in all years, I think by 2008, the number of passengers has been steadily increasing. According to the information I have – but don't think I blame you, but the case looks something like this since 2008 – I have this information. In 2008, there were about 670 thousand passengers at Ljubljana Airport. This number has decreased significantly in all these years due to the crisis and reached a record low with the number of poor million 200,000 passengers last year. But I think I have the right information. In comparison, the Zagreb airport lost a certain number of passengers in 2008 first, then this number grew and has about 200 thousand passengers today or last year, as it was in 2008. The pea airport remained at about this level. And there's something else about these regional airports around us. You certainly have information that the Zagreb airport is for the award of concessions, not for sale, for the award of concessions to begin this winter with the construction of a new terminal for about 5 million passengers with a clear desire to become a regional airport. Of course, he has similar desires in Venice. But since I'm running out of time, I'm also asking you to comment on this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u22	Mr President, what can I say, I fully agree with you and with this information. The vast majority of world airports grow from 2 to 4% when we talk about the number of passengers. Clearly, then, there is something very wrong with us. Therefore, once again, what I said at the outset is that I hope that our common objective is to ensure more contact with the world at this airport, more destinations where we can fly from our airport or to this airport, and consequently the growth of passengers will come as well. The fact is, in 2008, we know for some reason, this is the Presidency, this was the maximum number of passengers, and now, unfortunately, it is falling every year. That is why I hope and believe that our common goal is to increase the number of passengers at this airport as a link to the different ends of the world. That is why we are also looking for a strategic partner to ensure the development of the company in this direction that we have been talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u23	Mr Presecnik has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u24	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. I think that this is an extremely important question whether Slovenia will continue to develop or not in this way, including through this project, with the development of the Brnik airport. I think that modern airports, modern transport connections are prerequisites for the presence of foreign economists, foreign investors, foreign diplomatic representations, otherwise we will certainly lose all of this, as I said before. I agree that we need active investors, but we also need to think about it. I mentioned earlier the Zagreb airport, Croatia did not sell the airport, Croatia granted the concession and with the concession contract the country can have a significantly more impact on the development of a transport infrastructure facility than on the sale itself. I'm simply afraid that the Brno airport will become some small airport with an air trolley, I call it, to some major airport nearby, from which all destinations will be able to fly. That's definitely what I'm most afraid of. Why am I asking you this and not the Minister for Infrastructure and Space? Because I listened to his statement that he was positive about this investment. That's one reason. The second reason is that when you met in Venice, according to the media, you talked to a potential investor, with the Venice airport administration. And that's exactly what seems extremely dangerous to me that we won't get an active investor, but we'll get someone with an air trolley to attract passengers from Brnik. That's the worst fear. As I said in the introduction, I propose a vote to discuss the response of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you, too. This concludes the second question. We are moving on to the third question that will be posed by the Magi. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia, and the President of the Government will answer. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u26	Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! In times of crisis, righteousness is a magic word, one way or another. The burdens of the crisis must be fairly distributed. If this is not the case, tensions are created in society and people are definitely not prepared to bear the burdens of any kind of crisis. But as things stand today, it seems that those who have caused and are responsible for this crisis do not bear the practical burdens of this crisis. It is worn by ordinary people, while those responsible for the crisis continue to enjoy their luxurious villas and yachts. In order to better manage these matters, a law was passed two years ago on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. At that time, he was accompanied by the following words: "We hope that the tycoon will shake his pants." This was boldly announced when the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property was presented by applicants from the types of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS. They also said: "It is new that the state prosecutor will be able to propose to the civil court, at the stage of the pre-trial procedure, to freeze or confiscate property of allegedly illegal origin." These were words two years ago, this September, and more specifically on 9 September, Minister Pličanič answered one of the Members' questions in one of the Members' questions that no procedure for the seizure of illegally acquired property has been completed so far. This message seems extremely bad to me and actually speaks for those who are being crowned in today's society, we say shit in our ends, but continue to enjoy the fruits of their work in villas and yachts, while those who are probably already closed are doing various library business for 80 euros at the expense of the state. These are simply not things you should be proud of. That's why, Prime Minister, I'm asking you: What will we do to more effectively confiscate illegally acquired property?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you. Your Honor, I know or I am sure that you know very well that I, as Prime Minister, must not interfere with these procedures. So let me tell you from the outset that neither the Government nor the Ministry of Justice, as the Ministry of Justice, have a legal basis for collecting statistics on this law or even less force anyone on how these procedures need to be implemented. I agree that we should take this faster. However, it is a fact that the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin began to apply on 31 May 2012, that the period under this Act is one year and can be extended for a period of six months for objective reasons. So either way we like it or we don't like it, and I'm standing here on your side, this deadline hasn't actually expired. But the fact is, we can ask for information, and we must not force anyone to work faster, you know what is within the jurisdiction of the judiciary and how the government must not interfere with another branch of power, which is the only right thing. However, I can tell you, according to the County Court in Ljubljana, there will be a settlement and the first main hearing claim is expected in early December, this is for one matter. According to data received from the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office, a financial investigation was initiated in six cases by the end of 2012, the first and most recently the second action before the competent court, on the basis of which the civil proceedings for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin were initiated. I think this information is also publicly available, so you can look at it online. Of course, the police, in accordance with their competences, the tax and customs authorities are very, very actively involved in the procedures carried out by others. Here, however, I would like to stress the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, where, irrespective of criminal liability, we are instituting a procedure where assets whose origin cannot be proved can be taxed with 70%, which does not mean that the people who will be subject to this tax burden will not be held liable for what they have to be held accountable. However, I believe that we both agree that these matters must be brought to the end where they belong, these are courts, and not to the people of the media. Last time I listened to you on one of the shows where you were, I'm going to say, what a big critic of the media, how individuals are being pursued, whether it's politicians, economists and so on. I agree that things should go to the end where they have to go, in a legal and constitutional way, because if these proceedings fall before the Constitutional Court, it will end up costing the country a lot more, much more. As I have already said, I absolutely support both this law and all procedures and let things get to the end as soon as possible. The tax administration, however, is taking a number of procedures for this so-called tax gap and will lead even further intensively. This is under the authority of the tax administration, unlike all the things previously said. And I believe you know well that the government can't do much about it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u29	The request to complete the answer is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u30	Madam President, it is clear to me that you, as President of the Government, cannot interfere with specific procedures, nor can the Government do so, but your government and your coalition have a responsibility to propose laws and measures in the National Assembly that will go towards improving this area. And this is your job and your opportunity. As has been shown so far in these two years, this law on the seizure of illegally acquired property has simply not been effective. My question has gone in the direction and I am now asking you once again the question: What will your concrete measures be to improve this area? I would advise you to follow other countries for a little while. We don't need to detect hot water if hot water is already detected. Only, for example, if you turn to neighbouring Italy, where they have long experience in fighting the Mafia, are they taking hundreds of assets there. And there's only one quote I can read for you just to feel, "...when they catch someone on the list of extreme criminals, they take away all his property, property, and property. The procedure also covers all family members of the arrested and many other members of the Mafia clan if they are discovered. Too many times in the past, it has been reported that the property after the arrests was controlled by the husbands of the Mafia bots." So I don't speak in the case in Serbia. In Serbia, for example, they passed a law in 2009 and were already deprived of 100 million assets in the first year of the Act. You can remember a number of hotels and other villas seized by Darko Šarić. But the key thing in all these neighbouring countries is to first confiscate the property and then follow the judicial procedure in which it is demonstrated whether the property is seized or acquired in the right way. What will be your concrete measures in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u32	A proposal to amend a law that is practically ready, but this is once again just a change of law, and I, as President of the Government, cannot assure you that these procedures will then run faster. I, when I was still a Member, have repeatedly asked a colleague who is still sitting with you if the court or those who are taking the proceedings to commit that these procedures should be brought to an end at a certain time. And the answer was always the same. Unfortunately, they're independent, working as fast as they can. As we say, we will propose a change of legislation, and we can now expect your support in view of everything that is said.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you. A procedural request shall be made by a mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u34	Your Honor! However, I would suggest that the National Assembly, which has this role to play so that certain things can move forward here, hold a debate in this area. When I listen to the answers of ministers, including perhaps the President of the Government, it seems too often that we are looking for reasons why something cannot be done. However, I would like the National Assembly to seek, above all, the reasons why and how we can do certain things and move them forward. As I said, I do not want to detect warm water, but as a Member, I am interested in why a certain thing works in Italy, why a certain thing works in Germany, in Serbia and elsewhere, but with us as if there is absolutely nothing to be done, and in particular we are listening to the answers, why this is not possible, instead of devoting this energy to how to find the answers to this, I agree, very complex and difficult questions. I am convinced that it should be in the interest of all those who are sitting in the National Assembly to hold this debate on these topics, to find a way for a more just Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you. We have completed this with a third question. We are moving on to the fourth question that will be raised to the President of the Government. And he's going to be cast by a mag. Katarina Hotchevar, National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Dear President, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Well, hello to you, too, on behalf of the Citizen's List. At the end of May, we opened with a large majority the amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution and thereby confirmed the entry of a fiscal rule into our highest legal act. However, five months ago, we have not completed this task, because only the government was given high support by that approval to begin with the preparation of the so-called implementing law. The Constitutional Law provides that the National Assembly shall approve this implementing law within six months, by a two-thirds majority of all Members. That's why I'm interested, Madam President: How far is the government with the preparation of this law? Is it possible that you can already instill or present certain solutions in the implementing law? But above all, I want to know: What role does the so-called Section appointed by the Constitutional Commission play in the preparation of the so-called Section, which participated in the drafting of the Constitutional Law? I think we all agree that only an expert proposal and a law will ensure a better future for future generations, which is our common goal for all. As early as last summer, we had somehow participated in the proposed implementing law at the time, and I said myself that it was sad and that it was not a good trip, that seven political parties could not be considered on the seven articles contained in the proposal at the time. At that time, we also had different views on whether the so - called fiscal world was needed or not. I want to know: Is it your opinion that this is another institution or an important anchor in the field of public finances, which would somehow have prior control in the adoption of the budget, and do you think that this could be an important advisory body for each government? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you, too. I give my word to the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. The draft law is prepared at the professional level. The first necessary calculations are also being prepared, so I think we can expect a political debate on this subject in a short time, because we also need a two-thirds majority for this law. Here I would like to stress once again the role of Positive Slovenia in adopting this fiscal rule. We supported the constitutional change process when the wish of the coalition was that this consolidation would be very rapid, so that the budget should be balanced by 2015. Now you are faced with what problems this means when you look at the 2015 budget. That's when we said no to the imposition of the fiscal rule. However, when we agreed that this consolidation would be gradual, and this will be regulated in such a way, gradually and also allowing Positive Slovenia to change the Constitution. And with this law, we will ensure this order. As you yourself have already said, there are many things to be done in marriage. Of the more detailed definitions of individual concepts, when the principle is deemed to be balanced in the medium term or if this is achieved, what is the precautionary principle of planning and evaluation, lay down a fiscal rule for individual institutional units of the State sector. If we want to limit the whole, we will also need to limit each individual to what are the exceptional circumstances under which derogation is allowed, and not least to the fiscal world. Now I'm going to give you my personal opinion, not the government's opinion. I think that the fiscal world needs that this is not another additional obstacle that would in any way make it difficult for the government or coalition to work. However, the tasks of this fiscal world must be defined in such a way as to be without prejudice to the autonomy of Members, even after the Constitution. Members of this National Assembly are acting on your conscience. No one can tell you or tell you how and what needs to be voted on. After all, the existing Public Finance Act provides for a fiscal council; now it is only a matter of how this fiscal council is organised. But everything I've talked about and answered today will be a proposal, I believe that in a short time, discussions within the National Assembly. Once again, the emphasis that we also need two-thirds of this law is called for very broad support. I believe that if, at the time of the introduction of the fiscal rule into the Constitution, we have found a reasonable solution that we can all support together, we will have the same reasonable solution for the gradual consolidation of public finances, where we will not kill the social state, and I am pleased that the biggest opposition party now takes the view that Slovenia must remain a social state, so that I believe that we will find a common language in this law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you. It is not even a requirement, but perhaps just a suggestion that I hope that the Members of this proposal will get to the National Assembly as soon as possible, because this 6-month deadline is somehow binding on us, and on the other hand, I hope that the opposition will also be prepared to cooperate and that we will not look left-to-right, but a common objective that this record, together with the implementing law, be put under the roof as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you. The answer is also sought by the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u42	As regards the involvement of experts in the drafting of this Act, experts were involved. It is important to know, however, that at this stage, when the law was being prepared, the economic experts were more important than the legal ones. So I think that up to this point only one member of this existing expert commission has been involved and we will be happy to include the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you. We have thus concluded with the questions raised by the President of the Government. Let me inform you that we will vote on your proposals for a debate on the response of the President of the Government and would take place at the next meeting of the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 October, in the context of those votes. President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek, thank you for your answers. We turn to the following questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Robert Hrovat, Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities! In the negotiations on this unfair real estate tax law, I saw you sitting next to Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, which means that you were one of the key planners of the real estate tax law. I could say the same thing about mag. Jewish, Minister of Agriculture and the Environment. Look, you're a member of the Social Democrats and a minister from the Social Democrats quota. So from a party that's declared social in words, but, I'd say here, especially in words. What about in practice? In practice, you raise taxes that hit the most socially weak layers of people in Slovenia, of course, I am talking about value added tax and property tax, which we will soon accept. The real estate tax law is lifeless and will cause some families to worry, perhaps even a hopeless situation. According to statistics, more than 200,000 people are below the poverty threshold in Slovenia, and the number is approaching 300,000 people. And now the most important thing that statistics don't detect. Statistics don't detect people who besides paying bills and buying cheap food can't afford anything else. Dear Minister: What did you do in the negotiations for this group of people who barely spend one month a month thinking twice about what they're going to spend it on? Look, these people built houses and apartments with their hands, with their stings, mostly in the previous century, their value of real estate today certainly does not reflect their economic situation. The extra ticket that will come to each household in June will be a big shock. A shock for people who have worked their entire lives honestly and ripped their mouths off to create their own home. But you imagine people who live hard and can't afford anything, and you rape them with a tax that many won't be able to pay. And as an exit from the force, you dare to suggest that a tax debt can be entered into the land book, which means that the tax is paid when the property changes, so it can also be paid after the owner's death. You will make the last hour of their lives bitter for the poorer ones. They will likely ask themselves on their deathbed how they will burden their offspring or how they have burdened their offspring. This marriage is not human and is not just.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you. I give the floor to Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Croat for the question. Otherwise, I could probably ask a question about the real estate tax to the Minister for Finance, but as a member of the Government, of course, I cannot and will not say that it sucks and that it is unacceptable, I will say that as a member of this government and as Vice-President of the Labour Union within my own party, I have done everything to make this tax significantly less burdensome for those who are most socially disadvantaged and especially those for whom I bear the most responsibility as a responsible minister, these are those who are socially at risk in this country. The tax, if you look at it, has also made changes at the proposal of our Ministry, Article 11, a very important addition to this bill before you, says that those who are recipients of monetary social assistance or a security allowance over the past year are reduced by 50 % by more than 6 months. It seems to me that this is an important addition to this law and, at the same time, since we also cover the area of disability, it is also a solution in the law that those who use wheelchairs, i.e. paraplegics, tetraplegics, dystrophysics, cerebral palsy, should be reduced by 30%, because under other laws, the construction law and other regulations are entitled to 30% of the larger area of housing. You've been putting a tax debt on the president's questions all the time to take people's rights away. I think it's important to point out that they can decide to sign up, but not to do so. So this will be the decision of each individual. As far as tax is concerned, no one likes to pay taxes. However, if we are aware that in 2014, the budget adopted by your government had 4.7% less resources at the Ministry, this means that, without the adoption of this resource, we would not be able to secure the payment of all social rights next year. Unfortunately, that's a fact. And my own assessment of this property tax is mainly about ensuring that the social state remains intact in the coming years. Moreover, with the laws before you, we have provided the government with additional resources to help people more in the crisis, so that this is an important fact. But to think that, now, people will be able to pay and, on the other hand, they will get all the rights, such as monetary social assistance, a protective allowance, a grant for minors, a supplement for large families, a child allowance, when you and the ZUJF have already made a significant impact on these rights in the past year, so the assessment of this government, this coalition, that it is not possible to continue to intervene in social rights. In the area of pensions too, additional resources should be provided to ensure that all social rights are paid in the following year. So once again, the property tax is acceptable because it provides the possibility of paying all social transfers to all residents in our country. The fact is that the tax will be paid by those who have something, but they are protectors for those who really cannot pay what we have been able to achieve at the Ministry, even with the consent of the government, in the amended proposal for a real estate tax law. However, I understand people's difficulties, people's expectations, but it is also clear to people that without this additional resource in the budget, in fact, all these social transfers paid by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities will not be possible to pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Hrovat has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thanks for the answer. You spoke mainly about those who are most burdened or those with the lowest income, but I was talking about another group of people. These are people who will have to pay 100% and all, and they have so much money to pay for cheap food, pay the bills, and that's all. These people are the ones most burdened. And people will only be aware of the dimension of this problem in the next June when, in addition to other positions by the state or coalition, in which you are also the Social Democrats, they will receive another position on the average of around EUR 300 to EUR 400, and this position will have to be paid. But let's see what that means in practice. In addition to the power station, utility, telephone, cable, school, if they have a school child, RTV contribution, additional health insurance, monthly heating, maybe even a smaller loan, there will be another ticket that month with a greeting of a 300-400-euro coalition. If we add to this the purchase of food, it means that in a number of families the money will be lost to pay for this bill. When it first started talking about property tax, it was about the tax on luxury, on the second, the third property, the third apartment, on weekends, on walled plots and so on, not about the drastic increase in the remuneration for building land. This money from the tax collected should be intended for the welfare of the people, for a higher standard of living. What are you doing? In my opinion, you are robbing Slovenia and Slovenia, and with this money you are covering the deficit in the budget. Why, as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and as a member of the SD, did you not object to this madness? You're looking for money where it's not, you're introducing a new nationalization of property, and believe it as long as the Struckle Unionists and Semolič are silent, that means the country is going in the wrong direction. Yeah, and this: What do unionists really call it, you've probably been talking to them, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u49	Would you like to complete the answer? I give the floor to Dr. Anya Digač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u50	Last year, your government adopted the ZUJF. With him, you've reached out to the class that you now say you care about him. That's the middle layer. At that time, the key argument of the ZUJF was to protect only those who really need the assistance of the State, the recipients of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance. You took the 7th and 8th grade children's allowance, you took 10% in the 6th grade, you took the supplement to those who have more than 64% of the average net salary per family member, a large family allowance, you took away the right of newborn children to receive the supplement. With ZUJF, you defended the social state by taking away all rights to the middle layer. Now you're attacking me to destroy the middle layer with this tax. I have already made it very clear that if these funds are not available, these people will not get a higher rate for real estate tax, but they will have reduced child allowances, we can reach out, Mr Member, if you suggest, even in the 5th and 4th classes of the children's allowance, we will also deprive these people of this right. We can cut down state scholarships, Zois, we can do that, and people get less every month. We can take food subsidies, snacks, and at this point, we get 165 thousand children of this subsidy. We can also take a number of social rights if you think that the people of this tax will not be able, and I have made it clear that the ministry and the minister of SD, as you mention the Social Democrats, have achieved that those who are recipients of monetary social assistance or a security allowance have a reduction in these obligations. But you won't believe it, most of the recipients of cash social assistance don't have the happiness to have real estate. As you speak, to whom and to whom it is intended, please do not forget your past actions and what you have done in the past. I know this is not easy, but I think that citizens and citizens are entitled to the truth and that they are told that without this tax it will simply not be possible to guarantee all social rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Croat has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I propose that, in accordance with Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a discussion be held on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. You were talking about what our government did. You forgot to tell me that we've reached into privileges that you don't touch. Our plan was clear, an intervention in the public sector, which is certainly too extensive, certainly selling state property, with which you are rattling large and nothing happens – you have sold only Helios, which was sold two, three months ago, and the rehabilitation of banks. These are the measures that should be taken. Not with their stings, however, did they build their own houses in the previous century, and today their economic situation certainly does not reflect it. It's wrong that with this property tax you've reached out to the weakest. I'm not talking about those who get a social security allowance. I've talked all the time about people who have a salary, they have a pension, but with this pension, they're only able to pay their bills, cheap food to buy, and then it's over. And they live for months or until next month. Such people are growing in Slovenia, even I think the most. And it is these people who bear the greatest burden on this property tax. I therefore propose, Mr President, that we hold a general debate on the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 24 October. We're moving on to the next question. Mr Janez Ribič, Slovenian People's Party, will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Uroš Grilc a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In recent times, there have been a number of criticisms at the expense of public invitations to tender for culture, as they are designed to provide money to those who have been informed of the invitation to tender in a timely manner. That's certainly not fair. It would be fair to give money to those who truly do good work. It is also true that there are increasing numbers of books that are worthless on the market. Some even consider them harmful. It is sad that such books come out in the first place, and it is even more disturbing that they receive state support and thus free media promotion. It's funny when the author gets 4 thousand 200 euros for reading in a year for a book that describes the need to break down the tribunals and hang a judge at the game. Money distributed on the basis of public tenders is tax money and is not intended for the electorate, as some officials at your ministry understand, but it is the money of all of us. Mr. Secretary, I therefore ask you: How much money is allocated this year to support artistic production – how much money is allocated to support the book, how much money is allocated to classical art, how much alternative? How much money has been paid to the authors since the establishment of the library fee? Does the Ministry have instruments to monitor the effectiveness or eligibility of the use of these funds? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you, too. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u56	Dear Members and Members, Mr Fish! First of all, I thank you for your question and for your concern for the prudent distribution of funds in the field of culture. I have to say to you right away that the critic you were talking about, I don't know. No criticism at this time came to me from the point that potential applicants were not familiar with the public invitations to tender in the field of culture. The Blood Law on Culture lays down very precisely the procedures for the implementation of calls for proposals, the procedures for the implementation of calls for proposals, and lays down, inter alia, a deadline very precisely. Each time limit for the invitation to tender shall be at least 30 days. There are invitations to tender at the Ministry of Culture, which also have a longer deadline, but we adhere consistently to the fact that tenders are open for at least 30 days. On the part of the notifiers, we do not have any particular problems in this regard, and even given the number of applications, if compared with previous years, we do not record the decline and we do not understand it best. There is something else that needs to be highlighted. For all the calls addressed to the notifiers, we also have the obligations of public instruction, where comments are made on the tenders where things are explained, and of course the notifiers know this very well. However, if we only remember this year's biggest call for NGOs, the right call for co-financing of public cultural programmes for the next four-year period, which was opened for two months and extended by 20 days at the request of the notifiers, then of course I can assure you that the ministry of notifiers here is always ready to listen. The question of co-financing art production is, of course, a question that is much more complex again, and I will try to draw it very briefly. The Ministry has several ways of financing artistic production in accordance with the legislation. One is public service funding relating to the functioning of public institutions. The second is the financing of public cultural programmes, cultural projects through two tendering methods, or public call or public call, and the third is support for self-employed people in culture. In view of this way, the total funding from this year is said to be from this year's budget, then for art programmes, a good EUR 61 million has been allocated for publishing – you know that there is a Public Book Agency here, which itself carries out these procedures, a weak EUR 5 million for media and audiovisual culture, which partly belongs to the Slovenian Film Centre, which has received 8.5 million. That's 74 million. How much funding is earmarked for classical art and how many alternatives? To be honest, I do not know this answer because the division between classical art and alternative art has not been used since the second wave of artistic avant-garde of the 1960s, and even with later postmodernism this division has become completely inadequate. The boundaries between these concepts are very blurred, so I'm afraid I can't answer. However, I can, of course, respond indirectly to the distribution of funds between the status forms of organising recipients of funds. In this case, I will take the data for 2012, when 80% of the Ministry's resources allocated to the public administrations operating in the field of culture, 15 million 700 000 to NGOs, amount to around 11% of all resources, 5% to natural persons, in particular self-employed people in the field of culture, and 4% to good 5 million private enterprises operating in the field of culture. This mainly refers to publishing, film and the media. The library compensation was introduced by Slovenia in 2004. Since then, all the funds have gone to the authors and there were 4 million 915 thousand, of which 50 % were directly authors, and 50 % were to the work scholarships distributed by individual housing companies operating in this area. The library refund shall be granted in this first part to the authors on the basis of the rental of their works in general libraries and [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's a mathematical calculation. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thanks for the answer. Mr Ribič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you. My question and my initiatives are well-intentioned. Such errors occur over the years, not now during your ministry. The population’s money is not intended for selected creators, but for the availability of outstanding works of art, says the widest circle of the population. It is also true that some true authors or good books are among the beneficiaries of the library’s compensation, such as books that are compulsory reading in primary or secondary schools. We could have a library refund right away. This money could provide a free visit to libraries. Because there are more and more people who don't have money to rent books. Next, we could stop paying "cat in a frog" immediately, that is, co-financing future books on the basis of the applicant's application, except that in this way the most frequently co-financed harmful books are not rarely completely empty, you co-financed only a forecast of books that will never be printed, and other than that, such calls are only a formula for exploiting individuals and interest groups, therefore, a tied trade. Instead, I would suggest that the ministry print out and give to each family, say, the Sleeping Star or Alamuta, maybe next year Medvedka Puja and maybe Shakespeare Milo for expensive. In this way, we would really contribute to ethical vitality and cognitive equipment. I'm asking: Are you thinking of removing the library fee to send each household free of charge? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u59	Time's up. To complete my answer, I give the floor to Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Now I understand the direction of the question. The literary compensation is the Slovenian commitment to the European Union and the respect for the Directive. There's no way we're thinking about shutting it down. I must also say that since 2004, there has been a relative consensus among authors. Housing companies have been able to develop their forms of support for authors operating in areas and in the form of work scholarships, scholarships to prospective creators actually strengthen the position of these artists. On the other hand, this part of the mathematical part of the library compensation relating to the rental in libraries is the result of a bare calculation. It is that the authors have the right to use their intellectual work paid. The authors have no right to say that my book should not be in libraries. That would then be an exclusive right. In this case, no library compensation would be necessary. We know that no one in Europe has this system, so the library compensation is actually an appropriate system when we pay the authors the right to rent their works publicly. However, I must touch on what I have not been able to answer – the Ministry's control over the use of public funds. The Ministry, of course, evaluates the results of the tenders very precisely through its services. The whole process of distribution of public funds includes expert commissions as external consultative bodies. These are the independent bodies that propose co-financing of individual programmes and projects. The contractors are, of course, obliged to submit all the substantive and financial reports. Here I must say that every year's invitation to tender in any area is a key condition for the implementation of the programme from previous years. This is a condition that someone can even participate in the invitation to tender. It's an exclusive condition. Secondly, the quality of the programme or project implemented in the past period is an essential part of the criteria when the Commissions decide how someone fulfils these criteria or does not. In this sense, we are building this system. It's not a system that says it works without mistakes. No such system works without faults. He can always be better, more precise. I believe we'll be splitting it up in the next period. The book you are mentioning may be harmful is the book Goran Vojnović Čefurji raus, which received the Prešeren Fund award and which also received the Kresnik award, with which the Ministry has nothing. I think it's the profession to judge whether or not it's someone [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's appropriate or not. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you, too. This concludes the question. Mr Tomaž Lisec, Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space to Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u62	President, thank you for your word. Ministers and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question will relate to the third development axis. Unlike in the past, people of the Member States have asked questions only for certain legs, depending on where they come from, they would try to focus on the whole route. As we all know, in 2006, when the spatial development strategy of Slovenia was launched, the third development axis was an important step forward, mainly in this merger from Koroška to the White Country. Unfortunately, almost nothing has happened on this project between 2008 and 2011, or everything has been done to ensure that this project does not continue actively. In 2012, there were some shifts and now I am moving to the essence, to 2013 and also to 2014, 2015, for the period of our mandate or also your mandate. I'll talk in general, not about individual legs, because then I could probably talk through the entire debate about where I come from and what I want, which performance is most acceptable to me, but I don't think this will bring any real benefits. I ask you about the third development axis mainly in this direction, because for this coalition, at least in words, there is a great emphasis on major infrastructure projects, and we also have a European perspective 2014-2020. When we put these two together for the next six, seven years, I think that the third development axis is a very important component that can bring our economy, our citizens and our transport industry a lot of benefits. I don't expect any utopian answers from you today. I do not believe that you will be able to provide an answer to the question that the third development axis will probably be made more and more quickly after you have completed your mandate, because I believe that this is not feasible. In particular, I am interested in the timeline, both in content and in financial work: What was done this year, or what is envisaged in the next two years as regards regulations or State spatial plans, public disclosures? How is it with the purchase of land and your concerns, or your predictions, when can the construction of individual arms begin? Some put more pressure on the north, some on the south. I'm more of a middle-class guy, and I'm really curious about when someone's gonna get their turn. Perhaps, however, there is a further answer regarding the impact of the local population and cooperation with other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Mr Lisec, thank you for the question. We've done a nice review of the activities themselves on the third development axis. At the outset, I must say that the third development axis is certainly an important part of the development of Slovenia. I absolutely agree with you. In fact, we share it in the north and south, as well as within the north and south parts, then in each stage, in the north part itself, the section of Šentrupert-Velenje, this is probably very well known, we experienced a negative environmental assessment in 2012 so that the decision of the government was then to withdraw the variant study. We in this segment, on this section currently run very active all activities related to the new study variants. The definition of the variant study itself is set out in this direction that all stakeholders, all the active parties in this story, should be included before the public disclosure itself, in order to prevent that bad experience from the past, so that we come up with a variant that is acceptable, which is at this stage, so that the process itself can then continue. It is planned, as regards the activities of the public decommissioning itself, that the public decommissioning itself and then the spatial placement will be done and completed in 2014. The second section of Velenje–Slovenia Gradec, the spatial placement process is completed. The State Spatial Plan Regulation was adopted in August 2013. The third section of Slovenj Gradec-Dravograd, in fact, came from detailed analyses, transport studies to realize that the requirements and capacities of this section do not justify building a motorway on this section to build a new section, so this is where the decision is to modernise the existing network. When we talk about the southern part, we have the first section between New Town and Malina on this segment. Here the VAT Regulation was adopted in December 2012. The second section of Maline-Metlika and then Črnomelj – the border crossing between Metlik and Črnomelj – is under way, and activities are under way, the public decomposition of the environment and the draft VAT is foreseen for November 2013. Then the section that relates to the previous section is Črnomelj-Vinica, where we plan to have spatial placement done in 2014. All this documentation and all this planning is the basis for us to start building permits and then just building. The construction itself is linked to a source of funding. As far as the European funds are concerned, I must say that in the new financial perspective, there is no emphasis on roads, so as far as investment itself and drawing funds from European funds are concerned, I believe it will be very difficult and we will have to look for other resources. Personally, I want this part of the third development axis to come to life in Slovenia, but the only real possibility that we will be financing this section, now or entirely north, south or by individual segments and priorities, is to build it, but above all I see it is that we are looking for the concessionaire for the entire Slovenian motorways and in the proper concept and design of concessions for our motorways that we are also setting a condition for investment and development of the third development axis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you, too. Mr Lisec has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you, Minister. I agree that this is an important project and you support it. In part, however, you have directed individual actions or the continuation of certain stories from the past in this direction. Maybe to start with a financial perspective. Yes, the European perspective clearly plans that roads or infrastructure are not the most important topic. You were talking about the concessionaire yourself, and I'm interested in the public record of the national interest: Are you in favour of this as a minister or if it will be of interest to a foreigner, or will he be able to enter the Slovenian infrastructure as a concessionaire? Then two more questions: How do you cooperate with the other ministries? I must say that not only in this project, but probably in some other projects there is a ministry here, I am talking about the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, sometimes before the bar. as well as development in individual projects. And one more thing: I am also interested in the impact of the local population. We know that there are sometimes civil initiatives that are quite strong, and there are also some strong mayoral lobbies that build their policies on whether they are on the left or on the right, but only on their own personal interests. And these interests go mostly to the detriment of the economy or to the environment. And to conclude. I would like to know, given that one study showed a question about the threshold of economic efficiency. I hope, Minister, that further to this project this support of economic efficiency will not be for any official at yours or at any other ministry, I will say, an important factor in the fact that this project stops or is being burdened. I look forward to continuing this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u67	Would you like to complete the answer? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u68	Mr. Lisec, thank you for the additional questions. Speaking of concessions and Dars, I absolutely support that we grant this concession and move forward in this direction. Of course, we need to be clear here – here I am not talking about selling infrastructure, but I am talking about management work, and we need to be absolutely clear that infrastructure itself must remain state-owned, is of strategic importance, and this certainly must not be a matter of privatisation. In granting the concession itself, it is extremely important that the concession contract itself is qualitative, clear, with clear objectives, ready to know exactly what is being awarded under the concession and what is part of the infrastructure that is not part of the concession. The very preparation of the concession contract, in comparison, I can say that the Croatian government has already done this part; they have tendered EUR 6 million for the selection of the consultant for the award of the concession. So we're talking about serious numbers, which, of course, is understandable when we're talking about billions of concession contracts. This must certainly be prepared on a level, with an international independent expert who has experience in this area and who has references. This also gives credibility to such experts. As far as co-operation with other departments and other ministers is concerned. In particular, you have highlighted the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I must say that we are working very well with Minister of the Jews. Of course, we have many different views, different views, but on all the topics we have so far, we have managed to negotiate and finally find a common goal that is in the interests of this country and its citizens. Therefore, not in the interest of the Ministry of Space, Energy, Infrastructure, not in the interest of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, but in the interest of the State. When we talk about the impact of local February, local communities, left and right communities, I have decided to do so, and I will follow that, once in one coalition coordination, I have heard that sidewalks are only built where the right mayors are, that then the roads are not built where the left mayors are, I have actually decided that I will not build left or right sidewalks, but that I will only build bridges. Maybe sometimes some kind of tunnel. Economic efficiency This is one of the basic principles, including the basic objectives of the third development axis. I am convinced that the link section from New Town to Karlovac is a part that actually connects the Slovenian highway cross with the Croatian highway cross, which then continues to open against Dalmatia and the Western Balkans, and for this part I am certainly convinced that economic eligibility [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] is not disputed. [[...]] I would, however, like it to be part of the concessionaire and to decide for itself on this economic eligibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Lisec has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you, President. I think that the Minister and I, and probably someone else who listens to us, agree that this is a very demanding project that concerns not only your ministry, but more ministries. I very much agree with you that this is, as you said, a project where political color should not have an impact on the construction of the third development axis. So this project is tanning both the left and right MPs. Today we talked about the whole course of the third development axis, not the individual leg, as has been the debate in the past. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held at the meeting of the National Assembly on this issue, which is also extremely complex. I believe that you will have more time then to present an even more analytical factual situation, to perhaps give a late official at your ministry some additional work in this area and to bring us some new information. If this motion of procedure is not voted out, Minister, every six months you will receive my question of the whole route, not the route where I live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u71	If I followed your debate correctly, did you not make a procedural proposal to hold a debate or did you? Yeah. Okay. Your proposal will then be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 24 October 2013. We are concluding this question. We're moving on to the next question. Ms Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenija, will be appointed Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer, who is absent, and then Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mag. Stank Stepišnik and Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mag. To dean jedan, who is also absent. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President, distinguished Minister, Minister, dear colleagues! Why did you list three areas? In fact, because we could not get an interlocutor and it was very difficult for us to identify who was even in charge of this area. Now it's November 1st, and usually we all go to the cemetery because the Slovenians have a pathetic attitude towards our dead. Our cemeteries are also very well arranged compared to some other cultures or countries. We can certainly be proud of that. Citizens and citizens have warned me of something else. In view of the law governing this area, which is already very old, it dates back to 1984 and does not represent the current time, or is not suitable for the arrangements that would be appropriate for today’s time, that is to say the legislation governing the conduct of funeral and funeral activities and the management of burial sites in 1984. In part, from a financial point of view, the implementation of the said legislation is regulated by the Economic Public Services Act and the question is therefore also addressed to the Minister of Economy. On the basis of these legal bases, the municipalities shall adopt decisions on the implementation of this activity. We want to ask, we want to know: Who is preparing and when will a new law on funeral activities and funeral arrangements be prepared? Which department is responsible for its current implementation? Then also the real estate tax, which we are talking about now, concerns virtually all aspects of life. This tax will certainly also bring higher prices for funeral and funeral services as well as funeral arrangements. We are aware from the local environment that cemeteries are often owned by the religious community, while the local community has them in free management. We fear that this tax will be passed back on to the users, i.e. to us citizens. I will ask further questions in the second part. So: Who is competent, who prepares the new marriage, and when will we see it?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, Members, thank you very much for the question, Mrs Ludmila. Indeed, this law on burial and burial activities and funeral arrangements is very old. It is true in 1984, and to this day, something has not changed significantly. In 2009, the Ministry of the Economy tried to amend it, to amend it, but because of opposition in the State Council it was withdrawn or failed to proceed to a further procedure or legislative procedure. The great dilemma in the amendment of this law is also a vague competence for the normative regulation of funeral and funeral activities, since it concerns at least three different ministries: the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. The law in force was before the reorganisation of the state administration under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. In order to settle this, we've made a timeline with certain activities. 22. 8. There was a coordination meeting between ministers and government services where fundamental consensus was reached. These principled agreements are: funeral and burial activities remain in the compulsory local economic service and remain regulated by a single law in the future. Funeral and burial activities must provide a basic standard of service within the compulsory local public service, and for funeral activities access to market activities shall also be permitted, subject to certain conditions: above standard funeral service. The new proposal for the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act is based on a draft law from 2009, which requires updating and more consistent regulation of activities. With regard to the establishment of competences for the regulatory regulation of funeral and funeral activities, the basic concept of the proposed arrangements in the field of funeral and funeral activities, the coordination meeting between the representatives of those ministries and government services and other stakeholders is currently being organised and led by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology also organized a joint meeting between external stakeholders, external stakeholders include the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. The purpose of this meeting was, in particular, to establish a uniform criterion or conditions for the implementation of this activity and to determine, in view of the different perspectives on how much of the funeral activity can be left to market. It was agreed to prepare new starting points by the end of October, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Health are also involved in these new starting points. After 30. 10th, or late October, this law will then go into public debate and it will be possible to make various proposals and it will also be determined who has jurisdiction over this law. So far, it's not clear. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has only taken over the management and coordination of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you. Mrs Ludmila Novak has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u76	In some congregations, it is now arranged for congregations to grant individual groups some funeral grants or for citizens to receive a funeral. With the new law, this will be changed and the funeral will only be for those who receive the social security allowance. So it will be all the more important how the price for funeral activities will be developed. Now that we were receiving this funeral, on the other hand, we did not think it was as important as the price. This is usually the way it is seen, and perhaps public utilities have used it in their own way, and prices have gone way too high. When we have to pay it ourselves and not get the refund, then we will also ask ourselves why this price is so high. That's why I'm asking you: Will the new Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and the Regulation of Cemeteries also contain provisions on the pricing of cemetery management services? Otherwise, we won't be able to afford a funeral.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u77	The word to complement the answer is mag. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I believe that even in accordance with the new law, the draft does not determine what will happen in this law. As I say, after October, there will be a public debate and it will also be possible, with certain views, to further improve this law. But I can assure you that everyone buried will be worthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you. Let us conclude the question with this. Don't you? Mrs. Ludmila Novak has a procedural request, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u80	I will not make a procedural request because I have already given up on this, because no smart proposal is supported for further consideration, but I just want to point out that this law should happen and be suitable for citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you. We are also concluding this issue. We are moving on to the next question posed by the Magi. Majda Potrata, Social Democrats, will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Dark and the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Honourable Minister, Ambassador and Members of Parliament! My question stems from the constitutional right that a child is primarily obliged to take care of the family and, secondly, the country. Family intervention is permitted only when a child is at risk. Here I would point to the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, which sets out the operators of the activity and the procedures to be done where not everything in the family is so that they can claim to be in favour of the child. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport must take care of the other part of the obligation – to make education accessible to every child and to make primary education compulsory. It's all good and it's all right. The problem arises when we find that due to the doctrine of integration of children with special needs in individual cases, difficulties can also be detected when children with special needs or possibly other children have comments on this when parents, teachers, school management or the wider social environment. As they point out that rising social pressures also bring new forms of social problems to school, including violence of special forms, I have decided to ask the question and ask both ministers: What systematic measures are they planning to provide assistance to the Ministry in dealing with cases of violence in schools resulting from the social distress of the child or behavioural and emotional problems? We know the procedures for deciding how to get a decision from children with special needs, we know how someone can organise assistance, but more and more cases happen when we find that one of the institutions has not been able to do everything in favour of the child. For I do not want to ignore the fact that often a child who commits interdepartmental violence is often the victim of violence itself. This is why these are very complex situations and therefore the question of both ministries. Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you for asking. First of all, I give the floor to Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Majda Potrat for the question. This is a question which is within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and also of my colleague. I may say briefly at the outset that your question is addressed on two subjects, on one side of social distress, behavioural and emotional problems of children, and on the other, violence in school. The Ministry covers the area of social distress and problems in the family, most of which also stem from emotional and behavioural difficulties. We are trying to alleviate the social distress of children, regardless of the situation in which society is, through social and family policy measures, through a system of rights from public funds for the family in which the child lives. Last but not least, social transfers, such as children's allowance or in case of social distress, financial social assistance, lunch and lunch subsidies, if we are talking about students, as well as the possibility of a grant for minors, which we are returning with the new year. In addition, we alleviate social distress by adding a large family, and we also co-finance several programs through family centres that provide help to families. Children’s emotional and behavioural problems often stem from family problems, so social work centres as holders of public authority are obliged to take the necessary measures to protect their children, and they can be placed in a institution where they are suspected of being at risk by consent or without the will of their parents. As you have pointed out, in fact, the cooperation of the various institutions is crucial. These institutions represent people, so it always seems to me that it is important for individual employees to do everything in their power not only to look at the authority, sometimes to turn the phone, but also to agree between individual institutions in a way to find a solution for an individual child, for an individual situation that is best for the child himself. The worst part is when we have a situation where an individual is lost in this system. The Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence is such a roofing law, because we have made a lot of efforts in the past period to adopt protocols on how individual institutions work together, such as schools, social work centres, the police. It seems to me that you have to ask yourself again what as a person, not just as an employee, would do in a particular case to help a child in the sense that when you turn the phone, you agree on certain things, of course everything in accordance with the legal powers that you have, but still that it is a personal interest, and in most cases, they usually do. But our attention is focused on where something is stuck. There, too, the ministry, if invited, is trying to find the best possible solution through cooperation between all institutions. However, when it is already determined whether all measures have been taken in the interests of the child, as well as an inspection which is competent, it shall assess the measures taken by social work centres. However, this is a problem that is increasingly exposed in the crisis and the need for cooperation between different institutions is being established.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dr.Jerney Pical's answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, honourable Members, for asking the question. I'll be brief, and I'll try to be as practical as I can at the same time as possible. As far as cooperation is concerned, I think the colleague minister has said everything because it is necessary. It also seems to us that the child’s interest is crucial and rapid and, above all, effective intervention where necessary. However, as regards the systemic measures we are taking, I would like to point out the following. You probably know that between 2010 and 2012, a training project for professional workers in education and education to deal with domestic violence was carried out by means of the European Structural Fund at the Ministry. We say uglyly that we have trained a thousand multipliers who will be able to carry this knowledge forward. We are working mainly at the level of strengthening the professional competence of workers in education and education, including through another project and if you give me the opportunity, of course I will be happy to say more about this other project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. To complete my answer, I give the word mags. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you. I wouldn't want to build systemic solutions on a case-by-case basis, which is why I'm asking you. I objected or was at least very skeptical when we introduced into the marriage the possibility that even without the consent of the parents, a child who causes violence or endangers other children in the classroom may be preschooled. But the problem may also be that children withdraw from the environment, where there is an individual who is disturbed. Not one solution, and the other one will not bear fruit if it is not consensual. I therefore ask you because, in updating the 2006-2016 programme for children and youth and for the 2013-2016 period, I have also found measures which provide for protection against neglect and violence in such cases – because this is the consequence of impossible social conditions so that the victims can also receive immediate appropriate assistance in the forensic house. So I want to know: Is this forensic house project so set up that we can expect a continuation, and what can we expect from it? Above all, I expect the Minister of Education to be able to complement what he failed to say earlier. Thank you both for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much again. As a matter of fact, I would like to continue at the systemic level. It is about strengthening the competence of professional workers in education and education to identify, on the one hand, and on the other hand to prevent violence. That is why we worked together with the Institute for Psychological Advisory Development Projects and in this respect we discussed five training programmes for primary prevention programmes, on the one hand employees, on the other hand we empowered children and adolescents, then informed and actively involved professional workers, also involving parents in this process to prevent violence and social networks of volunteering. In this way and with many other projects, we wanted all of these stakeholders, who are important for preventing violence, to bring them into the process and somehow educate them or further educate them. But what you're asking about cooperation, I think it's crucial. We, together with the police in the past, and now we are upgrading the matter, we have prepared a draft agreement on the implementation of child protection tasks. This is the agreement that comes out of the Law on the Prevention of Violence against Children in the Family. Such an agreement, which we have already presented to the directors, I think will be one basis for our further work. At the same time, I would like, just briefly, to remind my colleague that this is not a matter of connection with the police, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and the same opportunity as us, but we are also trying to work with the Ministry of Health in this regard. I think that the Ministry of Health also has a role to play in this, because it is not only about physical health, as you know, but it is also a matter of sometimes mental health. And when we are in the field of mental health, the Ministry of Health is also a very important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you. I might add to the programme for children and young people, which was adopted 14 days ago by the government or by supplementing this programme, where, according to the current situation and given certain results, in particular some studies on the health of children, we would have adopted certain supplements. These include measures which are inter-resortary, so the ministry only coordinates. As far as the forensic house is concerned, it is within the competence of the competent ministry, but measures are certainly continuing to take place until 2016, when this programme is also intended to be implemented as such, since it covers the period 2010-2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the question of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister! We all know very well the economic situation in our country, and we also know one of the main reasons for the state of the economy as it is. I would like to warn you about some investment spasm that is at this point in our country, and it is more or less clear to all of us that a new investment momentum needs to be revived and our economy must be revived as well. The barrier to recovery and speeding up or launching investments in our country is indeed great. But today I would like to highlight only one segment that significantly slows down the course of certain investment projects to reach that final operational phase before implementation itself. I am talking about land acquisition for the purpose of building public infrastructure at both national and local level. I know the measure taken this year to acquire land for the construction of cableway installations. I would say a rather positive measure, but this measure is narrowly focused and only applies in this segment of land production. Not applicable to other public infrastructure in the country. And today, because time is an extraordinary value and it is very important how we react quickly or how quickly we will prepare certain measures to release or trigger investments, I expect the Ministry to have in this direction certain measures that will actually accelerate land acquisition for the construction of public infrastructure. At this point, there is also a significant part of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section during the land acquisition phase, where purchases are actually under way. Looking back, we know those extremely negative cases that affected or hindered construction. I therefore ask the Minister the question: What measures and legislative changes will the Ministry prepare for faster land production? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u95	Here you are, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Just Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u96	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr Žnidar, thank you for the question. In the vast majority, I agree with your findings and the fact that only obtaining documentation and the entire later phase of the building permit are too slow and we need too much time to reach the goal. The very change in VAT in the ranking of 5 to 7 years I absolutely agree that it is unacceptable. This part of spatial planning and the construction of buildings in this space is actually one of the first problems I have faced in this ministry. After studying history, what was going on in this area, we decided within the Ministry, together with an expert team, to go into a thorough overhaul of the complete concept. I am convinced that a systematic approach and a solution to this throughout the spectrum of problems, which represent only spatial planning and then a complex process towards construction itself, is the only right approach. We've done things the following way. On the one hand, we have a process from spatial planning and construction to the final stage of implementation, and on the other hand we have legislation regulating this process. At this point, we have four roof laws regulating this area. We have prepared a comprehensive concept of normative changes within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and have also prepared this concept as a proposal for a government hearing. What is crucial within the very normative concept of change and very important is to realize that it is not only the Ministry of Infrastructure that is responsible for this area. It is an extremely complex process requiring inter-resort coordination requiring inter-resort cooperation with both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, etc. Therefore, I think that the approach that we have drawn up and sent to cross-cutting coordination, to agree with all ministries in the first place, is the only right approach, that we have a single policy and, in the long term, we systematically regulate the complete problem and, within the complete system approach and concept, also this segment we are talking about, the decommissioning, the procedures themselves, that we should first come to the building permit to define what is strategically important for the country. This is where we followed, and we had a German model as a model. I think that the concept itself is very well prepared and in the very plans we plan to come up with a proposal for a law, i.e. a complete overhaul of all four roof laws with one single law with a proposal for a government in the first quarter of 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. I absolutely agree with you that this is not only the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, but that quite three resources need to be coordinated. But your ministry is the one that doesn't even have to hold hands or get in line with other ministries, because in the end, the problem is only on your side. So you can't avoid it. I am very pleased and happy that these problems will be resolved in the first quarter of next year and that this will not interfere with the procedures immediately next year or that those investments will run out as quickly as possible. That's what it says: Can we expect legislation by the end of this year in the National Assembly? I'm even more interested in this time frame here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you for the additional question that I have the opportunity to explain in a little more detail. The proposal for a new law will be sent to the Government at the beginning of the first quarter of 2014. One concept and a key part of the whole reconstruction are, of course, consensus. In most cases, we encounter the most difficulties in the process of obtaining consent. An important change, an important concept of this is an integrated approach to consensus building. So centrally one point for obtaining all consents, all co-consentors and all the necessary information. In the graphic presentation of this concept, we have shown very simply and clearly what the central database means, at the same time graphically, which consents should actually be given by the consentors. In many cases, we have come to the point that we are actually looking for consensus that we do not really need for the process itself. This information, if available all in one place, of course ensures that we do not conduct such procedures without need and thus shorten the consent procedures themselves and, on the other hand, the one seeking consent has the support at one point and can then, as soon as possible, come to all consensus and ultimately to the objective of building permit and investment itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question put by Mr Franz Breznik to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, and the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mags. Diane Jedhan. Since both ministers are absent, you will receive the question later or at your request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm kind of sad that no minister is present. In fact, this is a combined issue between the two on the last government measures in the whole country, because these government measures somehow hoard Slovenian agriculture, especially in rural areas and especially in places where this agriculture has already been threatened. I come from the Slovenian Mountains myself. The specificity of the Slovenian Mountains in agriculture is that it is a dispersed settlement, it is a large number of small settlements, with the specific use of these lands, it is a matter of emplacement and because of the adverse climatic and soil conditions on some modest added value and more expensive food production. If we compare ourselves with other parts of Slovenia in the Slovenian Mountains, we can find that three fifths of the population live in some urban, populated areas and that there is more pressure on the land in relation to people. And here is one, I can say, some certain advantage of the Slovenian Mountains, because because of a small settlement these lands are somewhat less burdened. I'm talking about, of course, the chemical burden on the sprinklers and everything. However, I have to admit somehow, because under this government, urbanisation of the country is strongly stimulated, rural areas are empty, many buildings are no longer used and are failing. And right now you will be taxed several times as much as those in use after the property tax, which we are now talking about in the National Assembly in recent months. The conditions for farming identified in the Slovenian Goricas are in fact significantly better for neighbours. Farmers are thinking about abandoning production, the problem is wildlings, starches are more expensive than in other countries, we have more prohibitions on the use of starches, which are, of course, a little more expensive for us. As agricultural minister, Dejan Židan says that the most grey economy is in agriculture. So farmers are taxed on cadastral income. But the grey economy may be partly true. But it is where the old generations are retired and somehow helps these farms to survive with some voluntary work. Young people are leaving these areas, going to Ljubljana, where they are educated in many educational institutions that do not bring in some normal jobs where they can quickly work, and agriculture as well as in Slovenian Gorica can be said to be extinct. My question is very concrete: What is the future of agriculture in Slovenian Gorica, what about farms in Lenart, Cerkvenjak, Sveti Ani, Sveti Juri and Benedict? Above all, I ask the Minister of Agriculture: What has he done in agriculture in recent years? What has he done in the area of identification, for example, of trade marks in Slovenian food and what has he done on the basis of certain incentive measures in the field of our agricultural policy in Slovenian Gorica? I wonder if it's a national interest for me. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Since both ministers are absent, you will receive within 30 days a written answer to the question raised by the Member State – do you insist on an oral response to the next meeting? Go ahead and say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u104	[[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u105	In accordance with your request, you insist on the oral response you will receive at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished Minister! I'd be even happier if Mr. Jew were here. My question is the continuation of my predecessor and I fully agree with him. Last week on Wednesday we discussed the report on the state of agriculture in 2012. The results are not to say, worrying not to say defeat. Slovenian agriculture is both uncompetitive in terms of farming conditions, as two-thirds of agricultural land is located in an area with limited farming factors and farmers cannot compete with foreign farmers. We know, however, that agricultural policy is European and that we cannot lead our national policy here. The report also states that the factor income fell by 12 % in agriculture in 2012. My question is addressed to the Minister: Why did you allow, as Vice-President of the Government, the Chairman of the Government Committee on the Economy and as Minister of Agriculture, to introduce double taxation of farmers? We know that cadastral income is flat-rate taxation, which we know all the time and also abroad, but that the property tax, the agricultural land tax and the tax on agricultural facilities is a double tax, an additional tax that farmers will not bear. My predecessor already told us what farms we have to leave agriculture. And instead of using all the European money for rural development and agriculture in this direction to start farming on these smaller farms with complementary activities, by reducing the food chain from villas to forks to organise farmers' markets and the like, this government is only taxing the already poor rural area further. I would therefore ask the Minister to answer this question orally at the next meeting. I am not surprised by farmers, it is increasingly heard that the time required is also the responsibility of the minister or the interpretation against such decisions as he has allowed as a referential minister for the field of agriculture. We know how self-sustainment is. Self-sustainment's dropping. We know that milk quotas will be abolished where the only successful farming is. I think you'd [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. In accordance with your request, you will receive an answer to the question of Minister Mag. Diana Jedhan at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We turn to the next question put by Mr Ivan Hršak to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I must say that I am disappointed that today the Minister is not among us, given that he has nine questions. Nevertheless, I will ask a specific question from the Member States. Dear Mr. Secretary! About a month ago, I, as a member of the Club of Zasava Members, gave the initiative to send a letter to the Ministry of Finance concerning the problem of the planned reorganisation of tax offices in the Republic of Slovenia and, in this regard, the planned abolition of the Hrastnik Tax Office. We have asked you for the previous date of the joint meeting, where we would directly describe our legitimate concerns that before your final decision we will consider all aspects and consequences of the changes envisaged. Unfortunately, until today, we have not received your answer at all. I'm disappointed. In this regard, I raised an oral question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. At your express request, I then withdrew it and received a written reply, which I am not satisfied with at all. That is why I am asking the following questions in public today: Is the decision to close the tax office in Hrastnik final? If so, what estimates are based on this decision? Have you perhaps met with representatives of the local community, and what were these conclusions? If you have not met and specifically checked the impact or effects of the proposed closure of the office on the ground, are you still planning to meet? Do you have data on how many people would be affected by the anticipated closure and how much cost increases – I mean, above all, the transfer of employees from Hrastnik to Celje and other costs – would this be necessary? I ask for your assessment: What would such a decision mean for citizens and citizens as customers in tax procedures? If they hold information about the abolition of tax offices, I ask you: When is this project supposed to be implemented and by the specific number of savings of this project? According to an estimate of the costs of this project, which amounts to almost EUR 1 million, is this project of withdrawal even justified? Thank you very much for the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Hršak. Mr. Minister Uroš Cuffer will respond to your request at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Let me stress, however, that we have received from the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Mrs Tanja Sharabon a notice that today Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, is absent due to official obligations, i.e. due to the visit of the President of the Eurogroup in Slovenia. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Ivan Grill to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mags. To dean jedan, who is officially detained today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Initially, I would like Minister Židan to give an oral answer at the next meeting to this current question, which has been on the table for almost 10 years. This is a problem of chimney activity in Slovenia, which cannot be regulated by a European comparable and the problems in this area are still present. On the basis of the legislation that is present in Slovenia, there are dissatisfactions both with the provision of chimney services and with many users who also report abuse to us Members, inadequacy and high costs to them. Since, unfortunately, there is nothing to be done in this area, I would now like to ask: Is he aware of the legal opinion of the former Constitutional Judge, Mr Ribič, who has produced a broad legal opinion on the field of the exercise of chimney activity, where he believes that such regulation is also contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because it is unacceptable that a law or some act provides that the parties must allow chimneys to enter their home, especially since these communications are often very questionable? Given that the legal expert, a former constitutional judge in this document, makes this so explicit, it would be appropriate to consider that this unconstitutionality is indeed regulated, and this should be done by a new law. As I am aware, there is a proposal for such a law. So I would like an answer: Is he familiar with this legal opinion? Is he also aware of this proposal for a new law? What is his position and the position of the Government on this current and pressing issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. In accordance with your request, you will receive the reply of Minister Mag. Ms. Dejan Jedjan at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. The next question will be asked by Mr Franz Puksic to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is officially absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As you said he was officially absent from the country, I hope he does not open the door all day to the gentleman who came to Slovenia, but it would probably only be so important that he would be at the meeting of the National Assembly with the Members. It's no big deal. It's no big deal. I do not regret his absence, but I regret that the government of Alenka Bratusek is taking this country to a funeral, so I also put a black tie upstairs. The fact is, in recent years, money from bank accounts has leaked to foreign countries, especially oasis, not because of more favourable taxes, but because it cannot be followed. The fact is that it is not only the journalists and the non-controversy, opposition MPs, but on September 26, I listened on television to the former minister and professor from the Faculty of Economics who is working through this professionally and also to Mr Pleskovic, and they both made it clear that billions have gone from the economy to the bank and from the banks abroad. There was something about deinvesting the economy. And a lot of it went well because it went to foreign black accounts. Everything that's going on is a result of all this. They said it was a precedent for this government to make a decision, i.e. those two who knew about the finances – but I heard that it was a precedent, that both the Bank of Slovenia and the Minister of Finance had decided to protect investors in Probank and those who had more than 100,000 euro deposits. They said it was a circus of 40 clients who are guilty of more than a third of the bad loans. And if I transfer this or transform it to the Ljubljana Bank and the Credit Bank, there will be a Circus of thousands of people in this country who are responsible for the state of two million people. I ask the minister: What did he do, or did he have to use the Bureau of Money Laundering or, of course, the Tax Administration to confiscate these people’s assets?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. According to your request, you will receive a written reply within 30 days. We move on to the next question. Mr Dragutin Mate will ask the Member of the Minister of Health, Dr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Given that you have, over the past six months, probably half a year and more in the field of intervention law, I expect you to shift your priorities over the next period to some areas that are particularly concerned with our citizens. And this is the area of waiting periods and waiting periods, which in many areas are long, too long and from a professional point of view, including the professional public in health is unacceptably long. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: When will you, as Minister of Health, regulate a uniform system for monitoring national waiting periods so that patients can trust the information on waiting periods for a specific health service published via the ZZS or via the IVZ? How will you set up a system as Minister of Health so that operators involved in the Health Care Network can report both the ZZS and the IVZ according to a single methodology? That's not possible right now, because this methodology is gone. When will we have a uniform system for monitoring waiting periods or when institutions such as the ZZZ and the IVZ will have comparative data on waiting periods? In the current system, patients do not know which list is the right one and can thus choose the operator where they would have been first. When will you, as Minister of Health, establish a system to take legal acts into account the professional guidelines for the longest permitted waiting periods, which we are not now witnessing?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I'm sure waiting years are the area that's very important to all patients waiting for investigations. At this point, we have a system of waiting periods established by all operators who are contractually linked to the ZZS and 450 of them are reporting IVZ data. These IVZ data are regularly processed and transmitted monthly to the Ministry of Health as well as any changes to the waiting periods. The fact is that there may be certain doubts about the quality of the data, given that in different ways these data are covered by individual operators. However, we need to know that a uniform way is prescribed and exists, and the methodology for determining waiting periods is published on the Institute's health protection websites, and this should not be the reason that the data are not comparable or that the essential items differ. However, it is a fact that we can expect a uniform and equal system in the whole country only after the introduction of e-procurement after the proper establishment of the same way in the information system, where several steps have been taken already this year. This e-procurement call is also ongoing, I think there are some complaints pending, but I think it will only be a basis and a starting point so that we can actually have uniform criteria and data. The profession is taken into account here, and the fact is that in all areas we cannot reach waiting times as we would like. There is no major reason for saving, and there are many reasons why waiting periods in particular areas are increasing due to increased needs in these areas. In general, I can still say that they are within the scope of the permissible for most areas, I say, if we are looking at the whole country, that one of the operators has a waiting period for a certain intervention, an operation, including an outpatient review within the framework that has been adopted. Specific areas such as some orthopaedic procedures, rheumatology, surgery, mouth, throat and throat, some urological outpatients, cardiac ultrasounds, in fact, go beyond acceptable waiting periods. In order to avoid damage to health, the safety guard is the rule on maximum permissible waiting periods, which determines how and when doctors choose the appropriate directions. This is either urgent, rapid or regular treatment according to the patient’s medical condition. It is specified there: if "emergency", this is in 24 hours, "fast" in three months, "regular" in six months – and this is probably the most late. At this point in time, I do think that the situation is not yet alarming, and in the event of a deterioration in health funding, the extension of waiting periods and the inability to follow the larger needs of money may begin to worry us. However, I fully agree with you that it is unacceptable to display these waiting periods in a different way and that I think that the only possibility is to establish an information system in a uniform way at the level of the whole country. And that's why it's been going on for a long time now, it wouldn't be about delays that have been going on for years now, but I think we're getting close to this solution to sort it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I would have an additional question about these answers that I have already received. Of course, Minister, in principle. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u119	Not an additional question, you probably think of a request to supplement the answer because in the Rules of Procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u120	That's right, yes, I'm sorry, Madam Vice President. I would like to complete the answer that I have already received to the questions that I have asked. Mr Minister, in principle your answers stand, in principle we have some sort of orderly matters, but things are not well arranged. So I asked you when and how you, as Minister, will change these years of regulation of the information system that you finally mentioned. I want to know: When will this be done, when will data be collected according to the uniform methodology? Of course, I am also interested in the views you have and are familiar with them because you need to be. About a month ago in May this year, you got records talking about waiting periods in physical therapy. Today we have a situation where, as you yourself mentioned, three months for a "fast" passenger. So much so that we are all clear here, because the citizens understand that. The physical therapy guide after the "fast" injury is acceptable to the professional public for 0 to 10 days of waiting period. And we have a three-month waiting period. That's professionally unacceptable. After three months, what else can we do to help someone with physical therapy after some injury? It's probably a lot of blurry. That's why I'm asking you: What will you do to make this happen and to take into account the professional guidelines or comments of individual professions within the medical profession and when will you do so? Not that we've had this problem for years. Yes, we do, but now you're the minister, and I'm wondering when you're going to change anything in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you. The question is in two directions. So, there's a time when a uniform methodology. A single methodology with the establishment of eHealth – this is expected to take place in spring 2014. I hope that this call will no longer be complicated under the Public Procurement Act. The issue, which is also more important and which you have raised, is more challenging in view of the overcoming of these waiting periods in certain areas. The fact is that all of this is also related to the additional resources that need to be provided in health care, in some areas also to the insufficient number of experts performing, not just in the field of physiotherapy, as you mentioned, but to the area of rheumatology or some other where we simply do not have the expertise with them. These, however, are questions related to funding. At this point, it is difficult for me to say what will happen with the agreement and with additional resources for funding in the following year. I am trying to convince you, everyone else, even within the coalition, that without this we will not be able to follow the development or the greater needs of the population. And they will probably be forced to seek help in accordance with the Directive on the free movement of patients if we fail to do so. Unfortunately, if it were in my hands, we could probably figure it out. Because that's not all and only in my hands, and I just can't do it right now. We are trying to amend the legislation, of course, we are trying to provide additional money for health care, because it is easy to follow these greater needs with existing money, which we know is already half less than in other countries to which we are compared. It's a question of when, for that reason, it's hard to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u123	Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the light of the answers that the Minister has given, I would suggest that we discuss his response, not so much about the answer, because the answer has been given relatively correctly, but on this issue in general, a broader debate in the National Assembly and in response to these questions, which are only part of the broader issues that we are having a wider debate on health. Why? At the beginning of this meeting, we proposed in our parliamentary group that the intervention law be dealt with on a regular basis, not as an emergency. This was rejected by the coalition and we could discuss precisely these problems, which the minister is talking about, about money, about the budget. Mr Minister, I do not need to be persuaded by our Group of Members, how with the health budget. You'll have to do this within a coalition where there's no listening. Of course, that's not the only problem. The problem is that we will also have to look for solutions in what and how we will have, but not only how we will make new contributions and new things and give more and more. We need to take a serious look, and these are serious professional questions. The waiting days are just one small part of this, the tip of an ice mountain that people notice. We will probably have to change the way funding is done. Now you know how this is done, with some negotiations, with some rules of programming, etc. We have been doing this the same way for years, and we are not doing it the way we should, so that operators would get paid as much as they do, but some flat-rates are being allocated. We have serious problems here in the system. I therefore really hope that at least the Members of your Group will help us to discuss these matters. If we have already been deprived of any possibility of serious discussion in the intervention law, given that an emergency procedure has been put in place, at least allow us to start all the fundamental problems you face in health care on this issue. And even with the budget statement, I hope you'll make some additional proposals, what you're missing and where you're missing and why you're missing that money. And we can do all of this in a broader debate, even before the budget meeting. That way, we could provide our citizens with health services in a better way. I hope you'll back me up on this, because [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] One of the coalition parties and you can influence them to enable us to have this debate here in order to achieve better health care for all our citizens. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 October 2013, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Puksic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Vice President. Usually, if a person is looking forward to something, he can forget something if he grieves, even more so. But I don't know which one of us forgot. You didn't ask me if I wanted a written or oral answer at the next meeting. I didn't say I wanted an oral answer at the next session, so this side is my fault. So I would certainly ask the Minister to speak publicly, without hiding behind a few sentences and letters, to speak publicly here in the National Assembly at my next meeting on the question of disinvestment of businesses and the departure of billions and billions of Slovenian money into the foreign oasis where it overlaps. I would therefore ask that this be done at the next meeting, so that the Minister responds orally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that you did not really express your wish, I believed that you wanted a written reply, as in Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure. However, we will certainly please you and you will have an oral response at your next meeting. Thank you. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Samo Omerzel a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that the Minister is present and will be able to give a direct answer, so I thank him for his presence. Probably everyone in the hall is monitoring the problems that are taking place on the road from Kočev to Ljubljana in the area of Škofljica. We probably all know the problems involved in the installation of the so-called Škofljica Oblast, and the search for solutions that have been on this project for several years, if not even for a longer period, have been on the scene. We all know that the installation of such a facility is very difficult, so solutions are also sought in a different direction, in terms of modernising the existing state road. However, I am referring my question to the Minister in a slightly different direction, so I also expect a concrete answer. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 8. Seven. 2011 adopted a regulation on the State Spatial Full Connection Plan Šmarje - Sap on the A2 motorway from Ljubljana to New Town. It would significantly ease the traffic problem between Škofljica and Ljubljana on the road Kočevje-Ljubljana, where one of the biggest traffic congestions in the country appears. The connection would also allow for inclusion in the A2 motorway towards Ljubljana. The current arrangement only allows for integration in the direction of the New City. I want to know: Why is it that, despite the constant warning of the affected population and the mayors about the intolerable traffic situation after more than two years, work on this connection has not even begun? Also, given that we have considered budgetary documents where this project is not to be observed, I expect your answer and clarification on this acute issue and the elimination of these traffic congestions. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u129	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Mr Member, thank you for the question. However, allow me to touch on these issues in a slightly broader sense, because I also have one very positive information, one positive approach to solving the very problem of access from the direction of Skofljica against Ljubljana. With the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we have aligned the solution, the solution that we think is the right thing to do in the quickest possible way to address the problem of the spikes that are emerging. At the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, we have proposed a solution to reversible belts, so we are going to a solution where we actually regulate traffic through smart technologies with an additional lane on the road. Thus, when we have the traffic from Škofljica towards Ljubljana at the end of the morning, we will have two lanes in this direction, and in the afternoon we will have the solution that when traffic is a guest in the opposite direction, namely from Ljubljana to Škofljica, we will have a reversible belt, so that we will have two lanes in the opposite direction and thus unload the tips. The solution itself is important from one additional aspect. The undertaking itself, which was planned, was worth EUR 120 million. This solution, which we have now proposed, is between €5 million and €6 million. So a completely different class, another class of investment, which, of course, in these times is a special achievement, that we managed in some way to solve a really acute problem with optimal investment. I think it will be enough for a few years to satisfy this solution itself or solve this problem of spikes against Skofljica. As far as Šmar - Sap is concerned, I also agree that this is the part that will further ease this problem. In this area, however, we had a design tender for PGD and PZI in February 2013, and in August 2013, an operator was selected to produce documentation, which means that September 2013 was introduced to work, i.e. a bad month ago. At the moment, we are in the stage of obtaining all the necessary documentation, we are talking about PGD and PZI to prepare the complete documentation. We expect the entire PGD, the PZI project to be completed by July 2014, followed by additional purchases of land and the choice of the contractor and the construction of the department itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you for this part of the answer, but I am not quite satisfied with this answer, especially these time-tables that have been given are a bit of a stretch. Nevertheless, I welcome this solution, which has already been proposed by the previous Minister, who needed quite a lot of convincing, both by the directorate and by other institutions, so that this solution, which is also in use in other countries, can be used in relation to reversible belts and additional transport signals, which allows, given that the existing road is broad enough, this solution that I welcome. With regard to the full connection, however, I think that the dynamics of both design and redemption are a bit of a stretch. I do not understand the logic that it is necessary to complete the PGD and the PZI and then go to rescue and land purchase, because the State's location plan already allows and can be the basis for land purchase. That is why your reply does not fully satisfy me and I would also like to be further clarified in this regard, especially on the grounds that I have not noticed in the budget documents of this full connection or the funds for the purchase of land.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u133	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thanks for the extra question. As regards the construction and acquisition of complete documentation and land purchases in 2014, the purchase itself will be done according to the resources we have at our disposal. We believe that as far as construction is concerned, the dynamics will be appropriate to how much resources we will have, and the dynamics are set up accordingly. We are counting on the building permit to ensure that the building permit is obtained in accordance with the timetable, which is the end of 2014, and therefore we will also try to ensure that the implementation itself is ensured. However, all of this depends on how much resources we have at our disposal and if we manage to secure these funds from the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the mag. Stefan Tiesel to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u136	All welcome, Madam Vice-President, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! My topic is emergency centres and emergency medical centres. We know that in Slovenia we have two university clinical centres Ljubljana and Maribor, and then 9 and 8 regional hospitals in Celje, Murski Sobota, Šempetr pri Novi Gorica, in Isola, in Novo mesto, Slovenj Gradc and in Jesenica and then a few smaller hospitals, if we say local and special hospitals. There must be 24-hour accessibility everywhere, both at emergency centres and at emergency medical care. In recent years, the emergency centres have somehow reestablished to be built in all these hospitals. In Ljubljana, he is in construction, in Maribor we know that the invitation to tender has fallen. We also know that 35 million European funds have been made available in this perspective, so that somehow this network of emergency centres is being established. They represent a secondary level, while emergency medical care is available at the primary level and also has its network or is not fully established. I want to know: What is the further pace for the construction of these emergency centres? As we know, he also slowed down in Ljubljana. Even in budgets and rebalancings, this investment always shifts to the future and also to other regional hospitals. Are European funds available in the next perspective? How does it relate to the emergency centres as well to the emergency medical care network? In Ljubljana we see that the matter is in the same place, and you have also arranged in Isola to develop it in this direction, and I think also in Slovenj Gradc. How is it in other areas in Slovenia in this direction? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u137	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u138	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. In fact, the resolution provided for 10 emergency centres in Slovenia in hospitals. They were somehow divided into three levels, according to the number of treatments and the possibilities these centres in these hospitals then have for the treatment of patients. We still see in this one more modern approach to emergency treatments, which are now divided somewhat more separately into primary and secondary levels, where this may be considered as an emergency, for emergency treatment, where it is good that there is a whole team and equipment in one place and that this can be used appropriately, there are meaningful emergency centres. The situation is that we still have 10 centres plus Ljubljana, which is not part of European projects – this centre is somehow developing and changing since 2007. For others, the documentation of the individual hospital, which was in charge of bringing the project to the building permit and to the planning review, had to be amended to a large extent. This had to change because they included a large part of other non-European investments in these projects. This has extended all the procedures since there is not enough money in the budget to carry out all these broader projects. Practically all the calls are under way, and even the Moroccans have not yet fallen, the decision has not yet been taken unless we are able to arrive at the negotiations. By the end of the year, it is envisaged that we will be able to obtain the signatures of the contracts, which still means that by the end of 2014, these centres should have been completed at the beginning of 2015. At this stage, when the tenders are once outside, it is difficult to say at which point an invitation to tender may fall, given that there are procedures here, requests for revisions in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and from here on out we are relatively powerless in this part, how long can someone draw the invitation to tender. The fact is, we carried out these procedures. Now we have a few negotiations ahead of us. I count that we still have enough time to sign most of these contracts by the end of December. But it also depends on the order itself. What happens next is hard to say. They're more likely not to be predicted than to be these emergency centers. That is why it is so much more important for us to carry them out at this stage as planned. In these centres, the fact that a primary and secondary level is integrated for optimal treatment, including pre-hospital units. And of course, there will remain mandatory cooperation with emergency medical units on the ground where the distance from these centres is greater and would be a real time threat to the proper treatment of those in need of emergency care. At this point, it is more or less in line with the forecast. But it's hard to predict what happens to public procurement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u139	Here you go, mag. Tissel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thanks for the answer. As far as these emergency medical centres are concerned, as we said, Ljubljana is in the same place and probably in Izola, Slovenj Gradc, while the Maribor case has emergency medical care in the city, while the emergency centre at the hospital is being built. Will it be connected or not? There's also a health home right next to the hospital in Cel. Will this remain in the old place or will this be linked, which would probably also rationalize the procedures? However, there are some places where emergency medical care is already taking place, such as in Krske, where 24-hour tour service specialists have emergency medical care, while Brežice does not have it. The hills are probably scheduled for an emergency centre. These people want to know if they're going to be left with emergency medical care, or if they're going to connect it to a nearby center where the emergency center is going to be. Similarly, I think it is also Postojna and perhaps elsewhere in Slovenia, Kranj is also likely to have this modeled. You have previously replied that where it is close, it makes no sense, but where the distance is greater, it makes sense that they have their emergency medical care to provide for that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u142	In fact, accessibility and distance from these centres are important. It is, however, a fact that, given the possibilities of such an emergency centre within the hospital, it can better and more thoroughly address the one that needs emergency assistance. Where this service works, I think the idea that there should be more emergency medical care in the field does not hold any judgment and criteria. In any case, this will be necessary, but it will make sense to organise this in a rational way. In addition to the emergency centre, having two strong jobs at a small distance is not meaningful, but we will probably see from the point of view of establishing the network that we did, I think we have done quite a bit, even with regard to the unit of the centre itself, according to the level of the centre and the said possibility of connections.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the mag. Andrej Shircelj to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer, who is officially absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u144	Minister Cuffer, as you mentioned, is officially absent, so he cannot answer, and I would like his oral answer to a question or topic that has finally employed Slovenian media in recent weeks and days, as well as Slovenia and Slovenia. This is a newer way to review taxpayers in Slovenia, so that at least this was very media support especially when the bars closed. In this case, it was some sort of inn. In this connection, the place was closed for several hours or days, at least two such cases are known in Ljubljana, and I think there were two in Maribor, which were also adequately media-supported. Such means of review are, of course, possible, legal when it comes to serious infringements of tax rules. After all, such checks take place in advance, which means that someone must inform the inn that something is wrong in the inn or that the tax inspector himself must go to the inn, record the situation, of course in a way that remains undetected, and then actually do such an examination or the Tax Administration will do so. The following questions are raised in this way. First time. How much tax was collected in these cases, which are also media-known, of course in the global amount? I don't think this is because it's probably tax confidentiality to make an excuse for tax secrecy. On the other hand, when an inspector goes to such a place, the tax administration shall pay him a certain amount which may be used in this place. This is where I'm interested: What is the maximum amount that the Tax Administration may grant in such cases? How many, once again, were seized and how many and what were the more serious violations of the tax rules in these cases that have been committed in the past? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much, mag. Andrey Shircelj. In accordance with your request, you will receive an oral reply from Minister Uroš Chufer at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Bevk alone will ask the question of the Member of Parliament, Dr Jerne Pical, Minister for Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! For today's session, I have raised a question concerning the implementation of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, in particular with regard to monitoring in public institutions, which I also addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Dejan Jedhan and the Minister responsible for Education, Dr. Jerne Pikal. Although the annual report on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety was addressed by the National Assembly Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, I received a letter from the Minister of Magi. Ms Dejana Jediana, Minister of Health, is responsible for the implementation of the law. Therefore, I will address the part of the issue relating to the law as a whole in writing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that there will be no excuses as to who is responsible for the implementation of the law. However, I am asking the Minister of Education, Dr Jernej Pikal, about the problem of the school in the Black Top of Idria, where the increased radon concentration was measured. We also informed the Minister about this at our recent meeting in Idrija, where the Minister discovered the memorial board to the chess player Vasja Pirc. That's why I want to know: Mr. Minister, what is the situation with regard to radiation safety in public buildings, especially in schools? The ionising radiation and nuclear safety protection law provides for the State's subsidiary responsibility, namely that the State shall cover the costs of certain exceptional measures provided that the financial guarantees provided by the operator or user of a highly active source of radiation are not sufficient to cover the costs incurred in carrying out the radiation activity, but alone does not have the means to cover those costs. As I am aware that the state does not currently have much money for the rehabilitation of schools, I am also interested in: Could we run for this kind of intervention for European funding from a new financial perspective? I thank the Minister in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. As you said, Mr Bevk, Mr Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo will answer, but to complement the reply, as you yourself said, given the Minister of Mag's response. Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, is also ready to reply in one part. Here you go, Dr. Pickalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, indeed, the money for what we call regular intervention co-financing of kindergartens for the rehabilitation of buildings has been gone since 2010 in one form or another. Therefore, what we are actually doing is that only where it is most urgent, we are carrying out all these rehabilitations. As far as recovery is concerned, I'd like to say a few things. One is that this year, I think, in May 2013, the Ministry of Health was given a list of all those facilities, i.e. schools and kindergartens, where their measurements showed an increase in radon content. That's what happened if my data is accurate, in 14 kindergartens and schools. To all these kindergartens and schools, we have issued instructions on how to act in such a case. Most of these cases can be solved by so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called soft measures, i.e. regular and continuous ventilation and so on. However, some cases are needed when it is in the ground, and this is the case in Idrija, which you are asking about when cracks should be sealed and then this part of the surface is covered with a special foil, which makes it impossible to penetrate radon gas. In most of these 14 cases, where we have detected these things and where we have issued instructions, it has happened that the radiation level has fallen to a further limit. As for the Idrian case, if I may reply briefly, we were not officially informed of the case. However, when we were informed from the media, we contacted the Idria Congregation, as you mentioned, and I was very familiar with it. We know that these first measurements were made on the basis of measurements and gauges that exist in the former mercury mine in Idria. Now, if I understand correctly, the Ministry of Health will also refer to its measurements and then issue a decision on this. The decision will, of course, be a signal for us, if it is necessary to ask the Government for intervention measures, because it must not happen, and you are right to have students or children stay in places that are very busy with radon and radiation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you. Perhaps so, indeed, we are obliged under the law to protect our citizens also from natural radiation. Accordingly, the Slovenian Radiation Protection Board devotes one part of the money annually from 2006 onwards, which has not been reduced during this period to verify these radiations in environments that are more susceptible, which are more exposed, for example because of the porous stone, where the buildings are, due to the composition of the building, due to the possible previous opinions and measurements under previous measurements. Such facilities are about 100 years old. They usually find, on average, at five sites, an annual infringement or exceed these permitted doses and present the measures necessary to protect the population. Even in this particular case, mentioned by you, the Black Summit above Idrija is the inspector of the Administration of Radiation Protection for the results and these basic measures have been notified to the school management and also to kindergarten. These measures can be very banal, from ventilation of premises, depending on quantity, as well as larger interventions, including construction works. The fact is, there can be no doubt here that the State is the one providing the means to remedy irregularities, either within its own resources or by providing the necessary resources. Could not close temporary folder: %s [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr Bevk's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank both ministers. Even if Mr Gantar can complete the answer, I will ask a further question. I mean, it's true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u153	Complementing the answer, you think?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u154	Complementing the answer, yes. Indeed, the situation in the Black Summit over Idria surprised us very much, for more than that, I would say so in the nicknames used in the city of Idria itself. It's probably about the burning remains of the smelter as a tampon or even the karst world as such. It is therefore possible to consider preventive measures against radon in this direction when it comes to planning construction, renovating buildings, such as schools, kindergartens, health homes and so on. In particular, for the area of Crassus, we would have avoided such situations in advance if, in the case of the Black Summit, it proved to be because of Crassus and this world, not because of the burning remains from the mine that were used as a building buffer. As regards European funds, I am really interested in whether this could be a solution, because we know that there are problems with the state budget and, in general, with investments in social infrastructure. The fact is, however, that the law in Article 46 makes it very clear in the fourth sentence that "if the doses referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article are exceeded in facilities intended to implement the educational, cultural, health or educational programme, the State shall provide the means to implement measures to reduce exposure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article". It is said that the obligation of the State is in public institutions. That's why I'm really curious: Is it possible to obtain these European funds to help solve these problems, because they are not so few after all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u156	I don't know whether we can get European funds at this point. It's not our ministry, but we'll try to get this answer if possible. The fact is, as you yourself have mentioned, that, otherwise, it is the duty of the State to provide adequate means of recovery and to protect either children or other citizens. It was also suggested that appropriate attention should be given to designing projects mainly on karst terrain, porous soils, in selecting materials for these facilities, to prevent these potential natural radiations and the damage they cause in these facilities at the beginning. We will, however, check on European funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u157	Here you go, Minister Dr. Pikalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I just want to complete the answer. I think the Minister has already said that the Ministry does not have any information to provide such intervention co-financing of investment projects from the following European perspective. As you know, one of the major and major thematic components of the next cohesion policy is the energy rehabilitation of public buildings, especially schools, kindergartens and so on, and the issue of improving energy efficiency and all that is involved. We will look very closely at if, in the next perspective, this is also an option, and as has been said in this way, it is possible to approach this issue systematically, especially if it turns out to be a systematic issue, i.e. soil issues, and it does not depend only on some past human actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u160	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! I have a question for you: At what stage is the project to prepare a landfill for radioactive waste? When was this construction supposed to begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u161	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u162	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Mr Member, thank you for the question. The landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste was adopted in 2012 by the DPN itself, which I must say in February, given the complexity of the facility and the sensitive area, is a major achievement. I must say that, as far as the investment is concerned, I support it, and I think that this is something that we should encourage especially in these times, and perhaps even cut our hands a little bit and start an investment as soon as possible. Of course, as with all infrastructure investments, it is very important here that the investment documentation itself, all preparation is really very detailed, reviewed and that we do not overpay the investment for any reason. As far as the deadlines are concerned. The Ministry has already received pre-investment documentation, a design prepared by the ARAO. In view of this investment documentation, we have requested certain corrections, clarifications, certain areas a little bit more detailed and we expect to receive the completion of the investment documentation itself by the end of 2014, so by the end of this year that we have complete investment documentation prepared. This is followed by a security report, agreement on the construction of a nuclear facility and the opinion of the European Commission. We are counting on the completion of all preparatory work in 2016 in view of the current momentum, which means that the construction itself would start at the beginning of 2017 and continue until 2019. Personally, I want and tend to accelerate this dynamic, so that perhaps if circumstances allow, only the dynamics will delay for at least one year, they will delay the investment early, which means that the construction itself would then be completed in 2018. According to current plans, it is envisaged that the facility itself will surrender to operation or operation in 2020, but I would like to see this investment implemented as soon as possible, which would be a very positive effect, given that the funding scheme itself is closed and ensured that the facility itself is not then 2020, but 2019 already in operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u164	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Now, it's important in here when this construction starts, mainly because of the fund. The Fund has the funds provided, we know that, at least according to publicly available information, the Fund operated solidly last year. The indicative investment they have for this project is ready and is around EUR 100 million. The problem for the Fund itself is that they do not get timely information when the Fund will have to prepare these funds. On this basis, they probably cannot draw up some long-term financial policy of the Fund, they do not know how much longer they will have to use these funds, so I personally assess that it would make sense for a decision to be taken in this area, since it is likely that this will also enable more efficient and cost-effective management of the Fund. We know that the country of Croatia also has a fund in here, so I am also interested in: Do the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or you, as a department ministry, have any information on how the Croatian Fund operates? Do you have any contacts with the Croatian Fund? What is the amount of funds in the Croatian fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u165	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you for the opportunity for further clarification. True, yes, the fund was actually doing a very positive business. Their return was 4.5 and a few percent over the past year, which under the circumstances is indeed a positive fact. This also makes it clear that the financial structure itself for building with the help of the Fund is ensured, and therefore we also want this investment to be implemented as soon as possible. I am convinced that, as regards the ARAO, which is responsible for the construction of the landfill itself, and the funds responsible for the financing itself, communication is taking place, I do not see any problem with why there would be no exchange of information between them. On the contrary, my information is that the communication and operation on one side of the Fund and on the other side of the ARAO are very correct and also all the financial plans that the Fund has prepared are in line with this. I don't think there's a problem here. We must take into account the fact that in the nuclear power plant itself and in everything we do in the nuclear cycle, we have a 50 per cent partner, that is Croatia. In the preparation of the investment plan itself, ARAO took into account both scenarios; we have a scenario A, where Croatia is also involved in construction as a partner, we are of course talking about financing, and scenario B, if Croatia does not approach implementation itself or as a partner in construction. Both scenarios are being discussed and in view of the negotiations with Croatia, this is of course a matter of negotiations between Slovenia and Croatia, then decisions will be taken as to whether we are going to build ourselves or go into construction with our partner, with the Croatian side.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat to the Minister of Justice, Dr Senk Plitchanič, will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ladies ministers, especially the Honourable Minister of Justice, Dr. Senko Plitcanič! Mr Minister, we both know that the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks is an acute problem in Slovenia. The solution to this problem is crucially linked to the future of the Republic of Slovenia. At the 3rd session of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, which was 2. Seven. In 2013, the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mag. Goran Klemenčič introduced the members of the Commission - including me, because I am a member of this commission - to the document of this Commission Assessment of the situation, Ljubljana 2013, with special emphasis on the section Assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system in terms of systemic corruption. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission reviewed approximately 40 credit transactions with an approved credit value of around € 1.6 billion for the purpose of identifying systemic corruption. So, on average, €40 million per credit transaction. In reviewing these credit maps, which were conducted by numerous interviews and other materials, the Commission concluded that the reasons for the suspicion of systemic corruption in the banking system were given. A number of irregularities and illegalities, as well as suspected crimes, have been identified. The President of the Commission, Mr Klemenčič, said, inter alia, at this meeting, citing: "If we find a legal possibility to put papers from ourselves and statements or anything in public, in which there are also specific names of persons mentioned in the report as grey eminences, then we will also give those names." End of quote. Persons who have caused billions of damage to the Slovenian banking system by abuse cannot and must not hide behind bank secrecy, especially in banks with majority state ownership, which will be saved by taxpayers' money. Not only do we have the authorities to detect and prosecute crimes, but also taxpayers have the right to know the names and surnames of the persons who have taken the banks and indirectly the entire Slovenian economy to their knees. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: In what time dynamics and laws do you draw up in your ministry, so that we can give the responsibility for abuses in the Slovenian banking system, which is primarily state-owned, the name and surname as soon as possible? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Secretary, Dr. Shadow Plitzenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! First, I must say that I fully agree with your conclusions that abuse, irregularities, illegality and crime, if detected, should be brought to the bottom of the Slovenian banking system in the past; and completely. Well, I completely agree with that. I am alone by now, and I will continue to do everything within my purview to make this happen. In this context, let me say that we are just before the completion of the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which will greatly facilitate the work of the police in the forecasting process in general and also in these proceedings, i.e. in detecting the irregularity and illegality of the offences committed by banks. But when it comes to accessing bank secrecy, which is at the heart of your question, let me say that this issue has also been identified as one of the key obstacles. At the same time, it was found that the Banking Act, which was also amended, needed to be amended in order to remove this obstacle. As far as I am aware, this amendment, which will allow access to bank data without the order of the investigating judge in the pre-trial proceedings, is already included in the Banking Act, which the Government has adopted and which will be dealt with by Members and Members in a short time. So I suppose, I must say that I have not been thoroughly absorbed in this amendment of the Banking Act, but I suppose what my colleagues have told me has been duly incorporated into the Banking Act by my colleagues who are working to amend the Criminal Procedure Act. This change will allow access to banking data that has so far been somewhat difficult or practically impossible to access. I must agree with this that this has indeed been the case and that this will change with this legal change and that the police and the prosecution will be able to come to this information and then take action. However, when it comes to the final outcome of this action, that is to say, in the court proceedings of those for whom it will be found that some of the offences have been committed, and then the publication of the names and surnames of these people to Slovenian citizens and citizens, we will all agree that it will be necessary to wait until the trial is concluded. For such judicial proceedings, I must say that the law provides for a speedy decision, so that the courts will have to decide more quickly than in such cases and when the judgments are binding, then these names and surnames will be known to our citizens and citizens. I should say so much briefly about this answer to your question. However, if you allow me, Madam President, I would only quickly answer or comment on the question raised by the President of the Government regarding the confiscation of property of illegal origin by your colleague Tonin, and on the inefficiency of this law, so that no one has been deprived of the property of illegal origin in practice. Let me say that in doing so, just before the amendment of the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property is completed, so that we will have the legal basis for this to happen in practice, so that this is possible. Practice, prosecutors and others warn that the law that has been and is still in force is not the most appropriate. We are now correcting it in this direction to be appropriate, and at the same time with fellow Virant, at the implementation level, at the level of the implementation of this, then the amended law – I hope that you will support the Members and Members – will then do everything in fact that the police, the Prosecutor's Office, Durs and all the others who have powers here can go into action more effectively than ever before and then, in reality, those who have stolen a lot of wealth, a lot of money in the past, this property has also been taken away; of course, in those cases where there is still something left. This is possible as a supplement or a comment by the President of the Government on this topic, which is not directly or also related to your question. Just a quick one; earlier, I was read by the leader of the SDS Group that I did not answer three questions that I was not late for how long. Let me quickly say that we responded to Dr. Vinko Gorenak's question on July 23, 2013, and then my colleagues told me – that I, while sitting in Parliament, ordered them to check – they warned me that he was an external contractor, I will not appoint him, who performs the IT services for us, to make some mistake that made him lose himself to [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The same goes for both questions, for the question of Zvonko Černač and then for another additional question by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, I do not mind that you have also responded on behalf of Madam President of the Government to my colleague Tonin's question, because the President has indeed become very involved in her reply. By the way, why am I asking you what I'm asking? The Commission's finding to prevent corruption was that the interviews always mentioned the same names, which are so-called grey eminences of Slovenian banking, which bear a large part of the responsibility for the situation in the Slovenian banking system. That's why we all want a solution here together. The people in the streets are telling us to the Messengers, and surely also to you: "Take those who have taken us away. Take those who took all of us." I therefore expect real quick legal solutions; I understood the CAP; the Banking Act is in parliamentary procedure; some solutions in this regard are good, and some will still have to be substantially corrected. It was true that secret bank data had been protected in the past even so far as it had not been sued for those crimes which had been detected in banking audit procedures. Mr Minister, I think, and we both know that one report from the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has already failed, and you have participated in that government. I think that on this assessment, this government can stay or fall if it does not take that into account. With regard to these knowledge of banking, which is listed on page 51, and all the way to page 68, please sit down with the President of the Commission, Goran Klemenčič, and in fact for Slovenian taxpayers, to find favourable solutions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u173	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u174	To what I said earlier, let me add that I am deeply aware of the importance of the question you are mentioning. As with abuse or crimes in the banking system, and anywhere else, I am aware of the meaning of what you are talking about, and I assure you that I will do everything I can as a minister to make these things move in the direction you're talking about. But I can do two. In particular, I can propose an amendment to legislation that allows for a more efficient, more successful prosecution of such crimes, and I can also do something at the level of implementation, as I mentioned earlier. Let me also say that I am here in agreement with Mr Klemenčič. He too will participate in this narrow group, with which we will try to accelerate action in this area. At the same time, I think that we all agree here, even though we are all -- we all have the same goal: greater efficiency, greater speed, we want something to happen in this country at last – and this is the last time I said that I hope that we all agree that this must happen in a legal and constitutional way. Whoever has committed a crime must be proven by the rules, standards, but by the constitutional standards set by the Slovenian Constitution, as is the case with all Western democracies, because otherwise we are not far from a country or from a state in which we do not want to be. This does not mean that this should be at the expense of efficiency. I am confident that it is possible to act quickly and effectively, legally, in accordance with the Constitution, and I will do everything in my power to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must say that I am to some extent satisfied with the Minister's response, and I believe he is trying to find a marriage solution. Let me also say, Mr Minister, that you have an ally in New Slovenia, but you have not answered all my questions. You told me which laws you're drafting, we talked about two, the CAP, the Banking Act, but you didn't tell me the time dynamics. Because this is such an acute issue, colleagues and colleagues, I propose, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly hold a debate on this issue at its next meeting. So how to get to solutions as soon as possible, or find responsible people, which, in fact, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption knows. At least this could have been felt at the said parliamentary investigative committee meeting. So we have names, but we can't reveal them because of the legal barriers. Therefore again, Minister, you have scissors and canvas in your hands, of course there is also a judicial branch of authority here to understand each other, and let us once realize the requirement of Slovenian taxpayers, which is: take those who have taken us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak to the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, and to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer, who is officially detained today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Ministers, Honourable Minister Virant! The Republic of Slovenia has an established division into 12 statistical and 12 development regions. Within these development regions, regions have also prepared their strategic and implementation development documents. The important mission of the current regional development organisation is therefore the active role of individuals and individual parts of Slovenia to find its own development potential and to shape its future and thus reduce the gradual developmental differences between the 12 development regions or statistical regions of this country. State institutions in the region, administrative units, would also be extremely important in supporting these development efforts, especially if they highlighted administrative units here, because they are important in creating or blocking the development of individual work by participating in various investments, issuing permits. One of such statistical and development regions is the region of Posavje. Let me mention the importance of this current regional division. In the Posavje region, there are 32 regional institutions that employ about 2 000 people and the population of Posavje. It is similar in other parts, Koroška, Zasavje, etc. Unfortunately, projects to reorganise state institutions are increasingly mentioned in the recent period. They do not take into account the current division into 12 statistical or development regions, more and more there is talk of number 8 and there is no known basis for these eight. This is also the case in the reorganisation of the tax and customs administration into the Joint Financial Administration, where these offices are supposed to be 8 plus this special tax office of Ljubljana. Similarly, the establishment of administrative sites and expositions, where only 8 of these administrative sites are supposed to be under way, is similar to the reorganisation of the Institute for Forests. This is just a few current projects that are under way. Dear Minister, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose any reorganisation of state institutions past the new establishment of the regional division of Slovenia, which will reduce the number below 12, so I ask you: Where and why is the number 8 also in the project of reorganisation of administrative units into administrative districts? Although I do not object to the administrative districts as a combination of some functions and another level between the ministry and the administrative units, I ask you: Where did you come from, and on what basis did you get to number 8?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u179	Here you are, Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u180	Thank you for asking. I think it is good that this issue has opened up in the National Assembly because there is a great deal of information, polyinformation, misinformation regarding the reorganisation of the state administration on the ground. The fact is that the territorial organisation of the state administration is today more optimal. The fact is that the territory of Slovenia is intertwined with a large number of different networks, district units and positions of administrative authorities and that this system has become very opaque and also makes it impossible to manage human resources, financial, material and other resources rationally. That is why we are thinking about how to make this system better; especially better, but also cheaper for citizens and businesses, so that we can do the same or even better with less money. The reorganisation of administrative units is also an integral part of this. I'm glad I heard from your mouth that you basically support this reorganisation. To make it very clear that this reorganisation does not mean that administrative units are shutting down or disappearing, that is, services for citizens and businesses remain there, they must stay where they are, they must be close to people and they must be even better and even better than they have been done so far. However, it is very reasonable that we connect several administrative units together to the administrative district, so that we can organise more rationally, in particular, logistical matters, human resources, financial, accounting, to reduce the number of independent budgetary users, the number of leaders, heads of administrative bodies and, in this way, save and at the same time allow for a much more flexible distribution of people and files, when they happen, let's say that they have already completed a denationalisation project on one administrative unit, but on the other hand they have outstanding issues and because they are different administrative bodies, these files cannot be moved from one administrative body to another. So a hundred reasons are that we have to go into this reorganisation because what he calls after that. Just as grass is green, it is so clear that we need to connect administrative units to the outskirts. The number of these robberies will be the subject of discussion. The first documents produced by the Ministry were produced exclusively in professional circles, i.e. in the expert group. The expert group was based solely on the professional criteria based on the number of administrative matters, so as to distribute as uniformly as possible among administrative units. And it is true that this expert group has reached number 8, but be careful that this is not yet a material with a signature or material that the Ministry of the Interior would send as its project into interdepartmental political or any other coordination. Thus, we are now commenting on some professional material that does not yet have the status of the Minister of the Interior's proposal. I am open to discussing how many administrative thefts we will have in Slovenia. I am aware that there will probably have to be some compromise here between pure rationality arguments, i.e. entirely and exclusively with professional arguments, and political arguments from the ground. I know Posavij wants his administrative district, I know that Koroška wants his administrative district, and believe this political reality I understand so much that I will take it into account in these proposals. So, I would say, stay in support of the reorganisation of administrative units, stay in support of the creation of administrative thefts, which will cost the state administration and make it better for citizens and businesses at the same time, and I promise you that we will also participate in coordination within your parliamentary group, as well as in all others, or offer to discuss the number of administrative thefts, including the Posavska of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your willingness to seek compromises. Allow me one more thing. We have already exchanged views on the rationalisation of administrative units many times, and I believe that you have always advocated that administrative units are something to be offended by because they work very well and have been rationalised to the greatest extent possible during the rationalisation phase. These are your words, which I merely repeat, and I would even believe it. I think that it is crucial that this sub-optimised system of operation of the country in individual territories be taken in order to bring together various state institutions on the ground. Today you have administrative units operating in their own way, tax administrations, inspection services and so on, a whole bunch of others – social work centres, employment agencies, pension and disability insurance institutions, health insurance institutions – all by themselves. I believe that there are enormous opportunities for rationalisation, optimisation in this horizontal integration of state institutions at territorial level. However, I would like to remind you of your promise to the unions, which is reflected in the minutes when you said that the change of administrative units to the administrative districts will not affect any employees, will have no surplus, for which you were also prepared to sign a special agreement with the unions. So, Minister, I am sure that it has not occurred to divide Slovenia into 12 statistical and development regions. I therefore reiterate that this is also a relatively political decision and that if any other division were to be expected to come before this Parliament, this political support would be obtained and subsequently reorganised by the state authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u184	Well, if that was an additional question, my answer is very short: yes, I very much agree with everything you have said. Firstly, I agree that administrative units are a quality and strong part of the public administration system. It is true that we have already radically aired them, that the number of employees since 2005, when we launched this project, we have been in the government together, launched this project alone, minus 1% at the annual level, and we have achieved the result to date – the Slovenian public does not know this, perhaps we should stress more – that the number of employees in administrative units has decreased by 18%, as has the number of employees in the civil part of the state administration by 18% at the time. So the state bureaucrat has lost weight in the last eight years. Administrative units work well, offer quality service to citizens, have no backlogs and exactly as you say: in a system that works well, it is necessary to intervene very carefully, I am very well aware of this, I have never gone into any reorganisation in my life just because of the reorganisations. However, that room for improvement is precisely in order to connect them by giving them this hat in the form of an administrative district, where they would combine all logistics with human resources, accounting, financial and so on and also facilitate the reallocation, material equipment, employee files and all these matters, so that the matter would be significantly more rational. It is also true that I promised the unions that there would be no surplus from this title, because I am also a proponent of a soft reduction in the number of employees in the administration and the wider public sector. This soft approach, if you take it disciplined and resolutely, succeeds – we have proved it, I have proved it. The government is shrinking, all it has to do is set a course and then stick to these numbers, which is much better than forgiveness. Your president would throw 40,000 employees on the road in the administration, even though there are only a few more than 33,000 employees, it is said that he should first employ 7,000 of them in order to fire all 40,000. But it's not. Look, what's in it for us? Unemployed people, social hardships, unemployment benefits. That's not what we're for. We've agreed with the unions to lower wages, we've agreed to gradually reduce the number of employees. And this, I will also very much sign your words on reserves, which allow us horizontal integration between the authorities. The design of administrative circuits will also be an opportunity for this – a very good idea, we are working on bringing together the different expositions and regional units of the state administration operating on the ground. That it can't happen, let's say that on one side of the road you have one district unit of an inspectorate that has a new car that is 50% used or 50% of the time in use, and on the other hand you have another inspectorate, which has one old branch that is no longer suitable.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u186	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to upgrade this answer and the answer that I have not received from the Minister of Finance, which is not available today, since the reorganisation of administrative units into administrative districts and expositions is also envisaged for the reorganization of customs and tax administrations in eight financial offices. And look at the fraction, even in this division there is neither Posavia, nor Koroška and Zasavje, and so on, meaning that those four regions, which is the difference between 12 and 8, feel unduly neglected because we don't know why there was a sudden change in the regional division from 12 to 8. That is why it seems right for us in this House to talk about this before these things move forward. For the reorganization of the customs service and the tax service in the financial administration is taking place, I am aware of all the documents and also of the regulation that is in preparation and is already ready. I hope it's not accepted in government. Dear Minister, it is true, in fact, that we fear that the administrative boundaries, if there are eight, will be some kind of basis for the integration and integration of all other state institutions into this number. This is unacceptable for Posavje, probably for Koroška, for Zasavje. I therefore propose, not least, a discussion on this subject. One thing is, it's not just about connecting some logistics, financial, human resources services. It is also a matter of purely professional questions and substantive questions. In fact, according to a proposal that came to the media, I read about this in the Dolenjska List, it was possible to see that even more demanding building permits would be issued on the outskirts. For example, for what water supply, for which sewer network from one municipality will they be doing this now in the administrative district that connects, I don't know, seven, eight municipalities, and it's eight OPNs, and I'm wondering which expert can do all this. This proposal, at least as you say, provided for the registration of weapons in administrative districts. For example, a hunter from Kočev will have to come to Ljubljana with his rifle, because after that first proposal it is envisaged that Kočevje will belong to Ljubljana, which means that these things should be settled there. I'm asking the question of the meaning of this. Based on your answer, I'm relatively calm. You say that you are aware that this is also an important political issue, that there will also be some kind of need to achieve a broad political consensus. I believe that this debate in Parliament would also make this happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u187	A respected magus. Visjak, according to your request or your proposal, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 24 October, by adding here that you have proposed to hold a discussion on the answer. The reply of Minister Gregor Virant can be discussed and the answer of Dr. Chufer cannot be discussed, of course because of his official absence. But let me also say that Dr. Chufer can answer you at the next session in accordance with the rest of the time, which is 30 seconds. If you want, you can do it. [[...]] Here you go. Procedurally, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u188	Of course, I agree that Minister Chufer cannot answer the question – or a debate will be held if I have not received his answer to the question at all. I would, however, procedurally warn you that I do not find a reason for the Minister's absence from the meeting if there are no external reasons or participation in meetings abroad. Because there would probably be a lot of ministers missing if there were some other responsibility in the Republic of Slovenia for an excusable reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you very much, mag. A visor. You were probably absent from the Chamber that moment when I answered one of these questions from Members and Members that Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, was absent today from the visit of the President of the Eurogroup in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we received a written apology from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Tanja Sharabon, Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u190	Dear Vice President, don't insult me, I was here at the time, and I heard it, but I'm asking you: Under what rule of the Rules of Procedure is this a valid reason for the Minister's absence from the meeting, where the questions raised by Members are?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak, of course, I did not mean to offend you, nothing bad, but I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in connection with the apology, has focused on the arguments that this has also been sufficient for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, otherwise I am sure that the first of the same, so the President of the National Assembly would have acted on this. Before we move on to the next question, let me say that we will decide on the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, who proposed that we decide on the request for a discussion on the reply of Minister Senk Plicán to his question of the mission, at a meeting of the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 October 2013 in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Mikhael Prevc will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Sam Omerzel a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister and minister! I am asking the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, in particular, in relation to the budget, with the budget balance for 2014 and 2015. The fact is, Minister, that the most prominent items in your ministry are in your eyes, and I can say that you have drawn the shortest end in reading these items, because, above all, in the area of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads which operates state roads, you have lost a lot of money. If I look at just the numbers, there was an additional €183 million in the 2014 budget, now there are 61. This is said to be 61 million in the 2014 budget balance. An even bigger disaster is on the line that talks about road management and running maintenance. In the 2014 budget adopted, there were 80 million resources, with only 8 million remaining. Dear Minister, I ask you: Where have the modest funds already gone for the reconstruction and construction of roads in the 2014 budget and in the coming years for the implementation of the projects envisaged in the development programmes plans? In the proposed budgets for the next two years, virtually no more money has been provided for the construction and modernisation of state roads, with the exception of those financed from European funds. As he recently said on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, the Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the money is not even provided for the implementation of the already signed contracts, even for the payment of works already carried out. That's why I'm interested in a respected minister: Are you aware that the State can therefore expect very high compensation for non-compliance with contractual obligations and high late interest due to non-payment of works? I would also like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: How do you, as well as the road infrastructure authority, assess the impact of the reduction in budgetary resources on the construction and rehabilitation of state roads over the next two years? As the competent minister, will you take responsibility for the damage, for the financial and other consequences?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u194	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Mr Member, thank you for the question. I'm going to touch the whole budget first. I've seen quite a few articles in the media where, in fact, in another way, we look at our ministry, but we actually came out of this budget with the 800 million we have at our disposal. We are talking about an increase in the budget of €100 million for our ministry. Of course, this is at the expense of intensive investment and European funds. On the other hand, I am talking about reducing the work from an integrated budget. When I speak specifically of the investments themselves, specifically on DRSC and state roads, we must first touch on the 2013 balance, which we all forget. In 2013, we provided good €40 million more to state roads than ever before. So, the good €180 million was a rebalancing for 2013 and the work of this government and this additional $40 million was provided, not because we would have had the surplus, but because we are aware of the importance of state roads, and because we had an extremely unfavourable winter 2012/2013 and that is why we have provided these additional funds. When we are talking about the 2014 budget and the resources we have at our disposal, I must say that I am part of this government, and this government has had the resources it had at its disposal and had to be properly distributed. This government has decided on priorities together. We have decided that we are a social state and that in some area we will have to cut these funds. One of the important areas that I absolutely did not want to agree to is the cutting-off of investments in those projects co-financed by European funds. So, as far as projects co-financed by European funds go, everyone, absolutely everyone, all investments go forward; but on the part where own participation is needed, the situation is as it is. I have the resources we have. If you ask me how happy or unhappy I am with this budget, with these funds; but I am happy as much as most Slovenian families. You have the resources you have, and most Slovenian families spend all the resources they have on survival, but not on new investments. It's also in our area. For 2014, we provided €60 million for investment and maintenance and €58 million for current maintenance. This is the 121 million that we have at our disposal and with which the Directorate must carry out all its duties properly this year. I am confident that under these resources, the Directorate will implement properly and successfully all the maintenance necessary for the smooth decoupling of traffic in Slovenia, and I am particularly talking about winter services. I agree that there should be incomparably more money spent on investments on state roads. We will work intensively to reach new solutions before the end of this year; how to finance state roads; before this Parliament, first the government, then parliament and, of course, the people, whether they will support us or not. If we have the means to do so, if we can collect them, I see no obstacle; on the contrary, we will be happy to make all these investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Prevc, do you wish to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u196	Again, thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I understand your argument that money is not enough for everyone. I do not understand, however, that the roads are precisely the ones that have suffered the greatest tax in this rationalisation, especially in terms of the state road. Look, Minister, I'm afraid if this winter is as much as it was last year, then I'm afraid we'll have a real disaster on our national roads by January. There's something else I want to know. See, Minister, in the 2014 draft budget rebalancing proposal, as I have already pointed out, only 8 million funds are available for the maintenance of state roads. Somewhere in the mouth of an expert who knows little about road management and maintenance, he mentioned that this would not even be enough for the salt needed to be bought for normal road maintenance. So I wonder [[...]] Maybe one more question. When I took a closer look at how this money was distributed, I found that as much as 3 million of this money out of these 8 were in the Ljubljana area and only 5 million for the rest of Slovenia. I'm really asking you, Minister: How will we look into the eyes of our fellow Ukrainians, you as a minister, alone as a Member, you in Dolenjska, me in Gorenjska, with such small means of maintaining roads, especially after these roads — and I hope that winter will not be too severe — find themselves in a catastrophic state? Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. With regard to these 8 million, I suggest we sit together and take a closer look at where you found these 8 million. For 2014 we have €58 million available for road management and maintenance. I have assurances from the Director of the Directorate of State Roads that as regards regular maintenance, we are primarily talking about winter and climbing here, we have no problems and that all services will do their job properly and that all traffic in the Republic of Slovenia will run smoothly, no matter what winter will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u200	The procedural proposal, in particular because I have not received answers to all the questions and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a broader debate be held. I am convinced that the topic of rebuilding and maintaining state roads is so important that such a broader debate does not, after all, deserve it. First of all, the Minister-designate, on the first questions I have asked you, that is, what will happen to the compensations that will be paid to Ozir, how we will cover those damages that will come due to non-contracting, that is to say the financial non-execution of contracts by the State, especially for those works where contracts have been signed or where works have already been done. [[...]] This is where I expected your answer. I didn't get it. I really think that this issue, the problem of state roads, especially the maintenance of state roads, really deserves a broader debate, and I believe that, Minister-designate, it is very difficult to provide a broader response in this short time. However, I am sure that you will be able to do so in a broader debate, of course if the National Assembly also adopts this broader debate on Thursday when we vote on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you very much. It is true that your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 26 October, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question raised by Mr Marko Pavlisic to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who apologized for his absence.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary-General in absentia, Head of State Treasury, Mr. Uroš Chufer! The national budget includes, among other things, the payment of domestic interest and the payment of foreign interest. For interest payments, the country committed EUR 633 million in 2012, in 2013 EUR 820 million, in 2014 the amount of expenditure of EUR 715 million was projected, but this figure has been amended by amending the 2014 budget to EUR 942 million. It's almost a billion euros. In the following year, the country will have to repay debts of EUR 3.3 billion in addition to paying interest. Since the budget surplus is not expected in 2014, it will be necessary to provide at least €4.3 billion for funding through the issuance of new bonds and bills. Dear Minister: Is it realistic, in your opinion, to expect the Government to be able to reach the same or lower interest rates as those for which we have paid so far when re-indemnity is re-indemended for payments of the Western Capitals and the provision of current funding? I also want to know: What is the average interest rate on long-term financial instruments whose principal is due in the following year? The question is important because, at this point, the interest rate for the 10-year Slovenian bonds is stronger than 6%, which means that the interest on these several thousand million loans arising from the past can be increased in the following year and in the years that follow, and this can add to the budget. In the Group of the National Gazette, we note that the announced privatisations and cuts in government spending, which could help alleviate the problem, are obviously not on the horizon, so we wonder how long it will be possible to maintain the debt of the existing sample. From this point of view, I would like to ask you as a financial expert: Would it not have been for a minister to propose the use of the ESA fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will answer your question in writing. We continue with the next question raised by Dr. Vinko Gorenak to the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I would now like to hear the reply of the former Minister, the Minister of Finance, the coalition Member, and this reply would be interesting. Okay, let's go to my question. Mr Minister, as we both know, and this is relatively very good, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, including the police, is drawn up in such a way that 82% of the budget or somewhere around it is the so-called cost of work. Thus, for investments and material costs, some money remains, which is seemingly possible to be large, but for such a large ministry, if we add up the police, which accounts for almost 9,000 people, it is small. When I left the Ministry, it was clear that the police fleet was extremely poor, which was then estimated at about 2,000,200 vehicles. Today I read from the media that there are about a thousand. But I think it was just that a few of the oldest vehicles were written off, what we had planned at the time I was alone at the Ministry. What's particularly worrying is that, in fact, government officials, the police officers who are citizens, I'm going to say, punish for traffic offences, drive an average of seven years old vehicles with 200,000 kilometres, which we all know is a security issue and more. In my time, we have also talked a lot about giving more than the basic value of a vehicle for repairing individual vehicles, which is actually unsustainable. What worried me, however, was that in May a call was issued that would cover almost 400 vehicles. The call was worth it, I think the number was close to 10 million and there were 80% of the European funds. Now the invitation to tender has been revoked. What I am asking is why this call has been cancelled, because I feel that the situation has been critical since I was alone in this area and that it is even more critical now. In particular, the problem is that, as far as I know, these funds are falling; in short, in May, we will no longer be able to use them. That's why I'm asking: Will you make use of these resources, and will you be able to use them? Are you going to do anything or do anything to get these vehicles and use the funds? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you so much for asking. Comrade Gorenak, we both seem to share our care for the police and its functioning and for its adequate staffing and material equipment, and we both know that times are not pink. Like all other budgetary users, the police are facing tightening conditions, reducing funds and must adapt to this. As regards this invitation to tender for the purchase of cars, it is true that it was largely cancelled, not entirely, two sets of contracts were awarded, the others were cancelled, for reasons provided for by the Public Procurement Act, because of the irregularity of the tenders. Some offers were technically incorrect because the tenderers did not provide one piece of equipment in accordance with technical standards that are certainly very important to the police. It doesn't matter what kind of signal a police patrol vehicle has, let's say it's in compliance with the standards. The second part was annulled due to price inadmissibility. The price inadmissibility means that the tender exceeds the available money available to the contracting authority or that the assessment is that the offer does not correspond to the real market prices at a given time. I am sure that the services have done their job correctly, but I know that some comments on certain specifications have already been published in the stage of the tender, if the specifications are adapted to specific tenderers, have already been published. Where the problem was and potential bidders were alerted, the services changed the invitation to tender and supplemented it, so that no one later made it clear that the invitation to tender, as it is sometimes called, was written to. But it was closed and cancelled because the offers were incorrect. This does not mean that we will lose European money, we will repeat this call in the first half of November, the period of eligibility for European funds, about 6 million and a half for these cars, until the end of June 2015. So we still have time, and this European money will certainly not go to anything, and we will take care of that. I must also say that in the majority of the cars to be used in border control units with the Republic of Croatia are referred to as the Schengen part of the police's obligation, and that when this fleet is complete, about 250 vehicles from this fleet, which are still technically O.K. and which are still useful, will be moved inside and that we will in part mitigate this problem which the police have. According to the financial and human resources situation, Slovenian police are doing exceptional work, I must say. The statistics of this year's results for the first nine months – for the first three, for example, you were responsible, below me – are outstanding. In the area of economic crime and corruption, the number of complaints, i.e. investigated crimes concluded with the complaint, increased by 60% compared to last year. And all of this is being done by the police in a very difficult, very difficult financial situation due to budget cuts. However, I assure you that we will ensure that no police legal task is threatened by a lack of financial resources, that we will ensure that we seek internal reserves, unless otherwise possible, and also by reallocation of budgetary resources during the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak, for a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I am pleased that European funds are not completely lost. It seems to me that you wanted to say a few more things and that we were more in the end with time. The tragedy is that, because the public does not, more or less, that we have the worst driving park in the police in the interior and as much as we do in the Schengen area because we can use the Schengen assets there and that then these registered vehicles in the Schengen area after four or five years are still being sent inland. That's right. Minister, it would not seem to ignore, I am well aware that all such calls are such that all such spending money on the police in public is always a problem. However, it is people who control people from the point of view of traffic and who cannot have vehicles technically incomplete, that is not morally possible. It is also a question of whether I should be allowed to say this too, it is also a matter of attitude towards foreign people coming to us from abroad and driving them in some vehicles that are 8, 10 years old and so on. I hope you can ensure this matter within some normal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u210	Dear colleague Gorenak, we share an opinion here. In fact, the police fleet is inadequate or everyone would like it to be better to be rejuvenated. Even worse, as you said, the average age of the vehicle is over 8 years, just after 8 years, the police have 2 thousand 350 vehicles, of which 150 engines, and on average these cars are very old. And of course, we all want this period of crisis to be over as soon as possible, so that the police, like other budgetary users, can be financed by providing funds for all that is necessary. However, I think that the police themselves can make a significant contribution to this, in this particular segment of economic crime and corruption, which is one of the main reasons for the situation that we have in the country today, and here the police are working with full steam and work on it, especially the NPU, and also the rest of the criminals are working on bringing to justice all those who have robbed our country and why we have to pay today all these high bills through taxes, lower rights and all that. In the police, we are trying to solve things as much as possible or so far as possible in social dialogue. You know, we've also closed down a long-standing sentence, you've faced this problem yourself, we've closed it down, we've provided money, not to increase police salaries, but to make sure that the more burdened police units can also be paid better and that those most heavily charged police officers can be paid a little better. Still not as right as it would have been to be paid, but as a financial option. I will also devote a great deal of attention to ensuring that the police have everything they need in the material equipment segment as well. Of course, it will not be exactly what the police would have wanted or what we would have wanted, but it will be in line with the material possibilities that the state currently has. However, once we have normal economic growth again, when we can remedy all these problems that we are facing, of course, the police will also be able to have newer, more modern cars.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following question will be raised by Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Minister of Justice, Dr Senk Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that the Minister has joined us, because perhaps I will have a little more time to explain my question. At the 44th regular meeting of the Assembly of State 1. 10. When dealing with so-called Insolvent Friends, I drew attention to some of the alleged disputed procedures for the recognition or disputing of the claims of leasing creditors to bankruptcy debtors, and in such cases might also be able to talk about Friends in bankruptcys, and the relationship between insolvency administrators, judges, bankruptcy beneficiaries or creditors is considered in particular. Serious warnings from entrepreneurs, especially SMEs and independent entrepreneurs, relate to inadequate legal solutions when businesses or independent entrepreneurs find themselves in insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, in particular due to the payment indiscipline and credit crunch we have witnessed in recent years. These companies, because they did not receive adequate bank credits, were forced to rent fixed assets in lease houses, either within individual banks or in the lease houses themselves. On several occasions, leasing owners, i.e. leasing operators, requested that, during the time of rental of movable or immovable property, machinery, equipment and the like, personal or company bills. If the undertaking or the independent entrepreneur is late for payment of the instalments, we know that the leasing houses take these assets away and, at the same time, in insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, declare the claim to the bankruptcy debtor. The story is not completed, and in bankruptcy proceedings they also recover the debt arising from the established menus. The biggest problem arises when the bankruptcy manager does not contradict these claims of leasing creditors to insolvency debtors, even though the leasing agents have already been partially or in full paid off by the confiscation of the assets, the seized movable or immovable property has been surrendered or have notified their already paid claim to the bankruptcy debtor in insolvency proceedings. Of course, this raises the question of whether these cases are also of the so - called Friends of bankruptcy. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What will you do to prevent alleged irregularities in bankruptcy proceedings related to the so-called non-controversy of claims by bankruptcy managers? In particular, the disputed claims of leasing agents on insolvency debtors are considered, the leasing agent has already returned the leasing item and is reintroduced into bankruptcy proceedings. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member and Members! With regard to the question, Mrs Ramšak, whom you have asked, let me say that each case has to be dealt with individually, this applies in general, in this case as well, or in these cases, which you are referring to. It is also known that, although I have certain powers as Minister of Justice, they are quite limited in relation to bankruptcy managers. If I would like to act in relation to them, if it turns out that in this particular case such illegalities and irregularities as you point out have been committed, then we should know what cases are involved. On this occasion, however, I can once again announce, as I have already announced at an extraordinary or extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Friends in bankruptcy, that in this novel, after the new Law on Financial Operations, we will propose to the National Assembly an arrangement whereby the supervision of the Ministry of Justice over insolvency administrators will be even wider than under the current regulation and, therefore, if this law is adopted, I will have more opportunity to act on this. What I would like to point out is the problem that you point out, therefore, when dealing with the leasing agent who got the leasing item back, if I understand correctly, and at the same time still insists on the claim arising from this leasing, but the bankruptcy manager is not arguing. If that were to happen, it would actually be a problem. The current arrangement is such that a whole bunch of security guards are not supposed to be able to do this. So the system is such that it's still the bankruptcy manager who checks the creditors' claims. The next ones with this option are creditors, other creditors – so here's the next filter. The third filter, however, is only the court, then the court finally decides which claims it recognises and which it does not. So we have a chain of filters that is such that I can't imagine how to extend it at the legislative level in order to avoid such cases that are clearly occurring in practice; that is, the cases that you point out. The more I see the problem, if such cases are actually coming up and I have no reason to doubt what you have said, then this is probably linked to every case that needs to be examined and looked at. Let me point out that the claims that someone has in relation to a debtor, for example, such a leasing house, may also be others, not only related to the object of a leasing. So, I'm speaking hypothetically. In fact, a specific case needs to be considered and then seen whether there has been an irregularity in the conduct of the bankruptcy manager. Here I, as Minister of Justice, can and will, if you accept the amendments to the law, as I have described them, also in the future, be able to act, when it comes to whether other creditors notice it and other creditors point to it and then in the end the court, but in concrete cases, of course, I have no influence.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you, Minister. I'm happy with this first part of you, though, because it's a very complex subject, which we've talked about a little while ago. In fact, when an entrepreneur has to file not only, as I have already said, company bills or personal bills, here are also the beginnings of monetary actions, which are all in line, reportedly, for the benefit of leasing houses, even though the guarantees for the invested funds have already been repaid to entrepreneurs. This content is said to be of no interest to the courts. I'll make my own efforts to gain the right to tell you specific cases. I mean, the courts are supposed to be suing for lease houses. However, the problem is also that we have raised court fees that when entrepreneurs find themselves in bankruptcy proceedings, they are in a very difficult situation, and these proceedings in the courts are very expensive. In enforcement procedures, for example, the personal tragedies of these owners, including their family members and a number of calvaries, have also begun following leases previously hired. I think it's a good idea to point that out. Of course, it is a question of which legislation is inadequate, whether it is the Company Act or insolvency law or even the Enforcement and Insurance Act. I think it's a complex case. I have also been reminded of this by some of the lawyers involved in these proceedings. This would therefore be very good for a broader debate, including public debate. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u218	In short, I would add to what I said earlier, that any warning that comes to me, either of the species sent, is the most valuable, but also, how a law works, whether it works poorly or needs to be supplemented, is very welcome, because it is actually the only way to find out about the need to fix the law. All with the aim of preventing such irregularities, abuses, if any, from occurring in the future. So I will gladly accept any kind of suggestion that you will put on the table; either related to the amendment of insolvency law, or to the amendment of any other law under my jurisdiction. In fact, all the laws you listed, I'm actually covering for myself. The Law on Enforcement and Insurance, mentioned by you, is also provided for in the Government's normative programme for a major amendment this year. We are preparing it, so it is now an opportunity to also put in place there any further changes that would be necessary and, for example, which they point to, as you say, lawyers and others who apply these laws in practice. I'd be happy to have everything you give me on the table, we'll study and then we'll take it into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u220	Not because I would not be satisfied with the Minister's replies, but because I think this is a broad issue, I would suggest that a general debate be held in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 October, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be raised by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I usually ask questions that absolutely touch all citizens, most citizens. Today, I need to touch more closely on the local problem that has to do with the ministry. Indeed, in Slovenska Bistrica the construction of the House of Older Persons in Slovenska Bistrica, which will act as a unit of the House of Dr. Jožet Potrč Poljčane, was completed on the basis of national priorities and with the help of European funds in November 2012. In 2012, a project of equipment was commissioned and a list of equipment was prepared with an evaluation of the value. In December 2012, with the Ministry of Labour, your Ministry, it was agreed that the Ministry of State Budget would finance basic equipment under the Regulation on minimum technical requirements for social security providers. The value of the equipment was estimated by the Ministry at EUR 600,000. Under the commitments, the Ministry has also reached a decision on co-financing of this equipment of EUR 600,000. Day 10. 5. 2013 you, Madam Minister, have signed an appropriate contract with the management of the house on this subject, which also imposed on the house the implementation and costs of the call for equipment and the laying down of funds for payment to operators until refund by the Ministry. On this basis, a public tender was successfully launched, contracts on supply, installation of equipment were signed with public operators and are already in operation. The equipment is already being delivered. The deadline for completion is 25. 11. 2013 The contract can no longer be terminated without financial consequences for the home, as there will otherwise be compensation actions. In addition, the supply and installation of equipment is linked to the acquisition of a building permit for the facility, which is a condition which must be met by the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica in order to obtain the last meal, according to the total amount of EUR 3.4 million. Now the Ministry has resigned that the contract for the second year will not be implemented. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: What projects were subsequently launched as part of your ministry's funding? At what height and when were contracts signed that cause the disposal or disposal of financial equipment in a home in Slovenska Bistrica?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u224	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thank you, Member, for the question. Nevertheless, I would like to allow myself to go on concretely that I may only speak a little bit more broadly, and I would like to say that in this year's year, investments totalling 4 million 900 000 euros were planned, as at the beginning of 2013 for investments. For ten social institutions, these investments were planned, namely, the home of the elderly in Rakičan, Ljutomer, Tisju, Metlika, Kočev, Šmaru pri Jelša, Slovenian Konjica, Poljčany and Brežica. So that was the situation at the beginning of the year. With the rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia, we have reduced 4 million 900 000 euros to 2 million 600 000. So unfortunately, we have not included any new project, we are not funding anything new. The fact is, of the 4 million 900 we have 2 million 600 000 available for these investments this year. Why did we bring it down? Because we were missing when we took over the government, only in the area of monetary compensation, about €78 million and the necessary financial resources had to be provided with a balance sheet, which unfortunately is mainly in investments and our ministry is in no different position than unfortunately all other ministries. In view of the situation in question, we have joined the signing of the annexes to the treaties already concluded. For example, as far as Slovenian Bistrica is concerned, we have prepared a realistic plan for the next two years, and we have also learned about the management of the institution. Initially, a contract was concluded between the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the House of Dr Jožet Potrč on the co-financing of the purchase of equipment, following dynamics in 2013 of EUR 300 000 in 2014. This year we will be able to provide EUR 272 000, this difference of EUR 28 000 we have to redistribute elsewhere, and in 2015 we will have to redistribute the remaining value. In doing so, I would just like to clarify that the main criteria in meeting contractual obligations under the already concluded contracts and in taking over new investment obligations are, in particular, the necessity of investment due to the needs of security guards or users, the very stage of investment, the heinous damage if the investment does not continue or begins. In view of the funds provided in the Ministry's financial plan, they therefore have a higher priority than that investment where the spatial conditions for users are poor or inappropriate and whether the investment is at a stage requiring its continuation, because otherwise there could be a breach of the contract and hence also the compensation liability of the Republic of Slovenia, or whether there is a greater damage or expense if the investment does not continue or commence. For example, if the terrace was built, the roof would be repaired because of the water clotting, but the roof was not built. In short, cases like this. It was today that we discussed at the college that due to the transparency of the situation itself, because much of this will also be adopted in the coming year, the criteria under which it will be assessed will be very clear, and the fact is that there will be no funds for all investments and it is right that I will also say this openly in this place.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr Jerovšek's reply?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u226	Madam Minister, when you have responded to which projects have an advantage, which must be fully realized. Given that this facility has been built up for almost a year and that there is a threat of damage, damages and all that is extremely large and is threatened with loss – not for any unknown owner – of European funds or return of 3.4 million, then it is also your responsibility, Madam Minister, that this does not happen to be co-financed. I firmly believe that all these criteria, including spatial conditions etc., are in favour of this home, this public institution and that I cannot imagine such irresponsibility, in which case you will release or further harm the country for all European funds. This is going to be a disaster, no matter how much money these funds might be posted somewhere else. That is why I cannot accept such a final solution. This solution is not acceptable and you are obliged to harmonise and correct it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u228	Thank you. The Ministry’s professional services, the investment decision-making commission, also takes a certain position in this case according to the information it has. Unfortunately, I have to look at the whole of it as a minister, not just a single home, and there are probably some similar cases and, given the existing ones, it is necessary to make a decision that is at least unacceptable and which brings the least bad solutions. However, I would much rather have enough resources to complete everything in time and that all things would be fine; but that is not the case, and that is a fact that we will not change. I said, we had 4 million 900 000 euros at the beginning of the year, 2 million 600,000 euros we have by the end of this year. These are the facts. Inside these we are trying to find solutions that will be least painful and that will leave the least consequences. I assure you that I am also doing this as a field minister in cooperation with the expert services who are making an assessment because they are most familiar with the issue of each case.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u229	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Mr. Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u230	Yeah. Madam Minister says that the professional services have been so designated and have made the right decision. I am sure that it will be such a big financial loss that Slovenia will have to pay because it is a matter of returning European funds and because the old rule is absolutely in breach of this, that contracts must be respected, so do not apologize to professional services. I am convinced that in this case this project is the one that must be given priority at this point in time, that this financial damage is not being realised to the detriment of this country. I therefore propose that we hold a general debate on such behaviour, because perhaps, Madam Minister, you also need this help to be what you represent under the Ministry's professional services, where there are many interests, extremely strong interests and lasting interests in order to overcome this and that you will take the first step. With this general debate, Parliament can help you to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 24 October. We continue with Andrej Couch's question to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all ministers, especially Mr. Virant! I have decided to address you with one question concerning the balanced regional development and the establishment of the provinces. The most important conclusion when we talk about the regional development of Slovenia is that Slovenia is already a highly centralised country and that statistics on development indices are also appropriate. We have also observed in some official statistics last year that despite the fact that the centre of Slovenia is far more developed, it still receives the largest share of state resources for regional development. Thus, for example, in 2011, he received two thirds of all available resources and, on the other hand, the Podravska Region, for example, 6, and Koroška only 3. So we can figure out that it's already a matter of systemic inequality, and it saddens me that nothing has changed to this day. The coalition agreement, which also has your signature, has, if I quote, the following: "We will strive to reduce regional differences and continue the debate on regionalisation with emphasis on the regional development component." We now have only municipalities in Slovenia from the point of view of local self-government, which are effective in obtaining European funds, and resources go to strategic projects that improve the daily lives of every citizen or citizen. In order to ensure cheaper and more effective local self-government, including in the area of obtaining grants, and to ensure evener development of Slovenian regions, it would be wise if we decided to step together and finally take this political decision in Slovenia to introduce the provinces or regions, as we say. In 2008, you probably remember well, we had a consultative referendum on this subject, where participation was not exactly brilliant, but the results were quite eloquent. I think almost two thirds of the participants in the referendum supported the idea of the then government. For starters, all I care about is: How far is the current project of establishing the provinces or regions? Are we currently working only on the debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u234	Thank you. The fact is that the system of local self-government in Slovenia needs major improvements. It is true that Slovenia is a very centralised country, although you have mixed the issue of equitable regional development and centralisation in little question; centralisation means that too many things are decided in the centre, namely in Ljubljana, and too few things in other parts of Slovenia. And that's true. Slovenia is too centralised, all the data shows this; what is on the palm of our hand, on the one hand we have a country, and on the other hand we have 212 small, weak, scattered, scattered municipalities, which, of course, cannot be strong. Small municipalities are weak municipalities, more than we have municipalities and less than they are, Slovenia will be more centralised because the municipalities will be weak. Therefore, it is of utmost importance for the decentralisation of the country that the municipalities unite and strengthen each other, because this way they can be stronger and easier to make visas to the country and will also be able to draw on European money much more effectively. I do not agree with you that European money is effectively spent by the municipality. See, when you're driving around Slovenia, you see a lot of projects that you're wondering if you really needed to finance it from European money, or if you couldn't invest that money better in something that would have more multiplier effects, say improving rail infrastructure. You see a lot of pre-seasoned circles, with some lighted waterworks in the middle. Sometimes I feel that it is through these small congregations that we have lost our sense of what is really important in this country and of what are irrelevant projects. Second thing. Slovenia is too centralised because we have no provinces. You're right. My personal view is that we need the provinces in Slovenia and that we will need to continue not only to talk, but also to get to the point that we will really set them up and that they will start working. At the Ministry, we have begun to prepare a strategy for the development of local self-government, because this debate has opened. It opened up through the idea of gathering congregations. We had quite a few expert discussions on this subject, and everyone, including those who supported the assembly of municipalities, said, move gradually, move carefully, first set one strategy to see where this local self-government would go. And that's what we're doing. This strategy will include the idea of uniting municipalities so that we will not have these anomalous situations when we have municipalities of 300, 500, 1000 people who cannot perform all sorts of functions run by law, and the strategy will also include the establishment of provinces. I believe that Slovenia needs the landscapes to be used primarily as development institutions in order to be able to plan development projects through the provinces in order to plan the spatial development of Slovenia in the provinces. Every urbanist, every spatial planner will tell you that it is not possible to plan a space in 212 municipalities that we also need the landscapes – that these must be institutions that will be mainly developmental and that will in particular ensure that we draw as much structural and cohesion resources as possible. I'd like to follow Ireland. During the establishment of the landscapes, Ireland has drawn on an enormous amount of European development resources, and this has benefited, effectively, from good, real projects. And we need such landscapes in Slovenia. We must not do this to repeat a mistake in 1994 when the reform of local self-government of the establishment of municipalities was essentially born when we came into a strange asymmetric system where we have on one side a large municipality – ostrich and on the other side chickens with a few hundred inhabitants, because politics worked together without professional arguments, arbitrarily, on the basis of political purchases and purchases; the one who was stronger could reach his congregation. We must not do this to make major mistakes in setting up the provinces. Let's say that we make some bureaucratic institutions out of the provinces to increase the number of bureaucrats, the number of employees in the administration; but if someone thinks that under the provinces, then I'm against it. I am very much in favour of the provinces, but as development institutions with small, efficient, professional appliances, which will mainly support development projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u236	Yeah. Thanks again for saying that. At the beginning of your debate, if I understand you correctly, you said we had too many congregations or that they were too small. I might even agree in certain cases, but when we look at today's situation in the country, I think there are a lot of other things that should bother us. Small congregations are not to blame for the situation in the country; small congregations are not to blame for the arrival of tycoons; small congregations are not to blame for the bank robbery and so on. I agree with you about when you mentioned the advantages of the provinces; therefore, as you yourself have said, increasing the power of the regions as a development entity. Then I think it is very important that the regions should be able to decide for themselves on their own development. It would probably be helpful to break some monopolies. At the final stage, young people will be able to have a future in their places, thus preserving their intellectual potential, rationalising European projects, and I also agree with you here to make faster decisions on the use and management of space. That would definitely be very appropriate. And I want to know: What did you think was the proposal that was in the referendum in 2008? In the final stage, this proposal has received the most, we can say, formal support, both between political parties, and has also been very strongly supported in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u238	I would not refer to that referendum because that referendum was a major breakdown from the point of view of participation, I think that there were about 10% of the voters and such a referendum does not have legitimacy. We should probably ask people again whether the policy should make the decision for which it is paid without forcing people to go to referendums on such matters. I don't think another referendum on landscapes would be necessary. These key highlights of why the provinces would be important and necessary are true, and I fully agree with this. Such areas would have a developmental potential in particular. They could be entrusted with many things, and many of the privileges that the congregations now have in the congregations simply cannot. It's a classic example of waste management. This is an example of competence, which is highly regional in nature. In practice, it appears that, of course, not every municipality can take care of this; it has to ensure that they agree on the location, the regime, prices and so on, and practice shows that the municipalities sometimes find it very difficult to deal with each other and that they cannot agree. This remained a problem in several Slovenian regions because the municipalities could not agree on each other. Planning space is definitely something that would fall within the province's jurisdiction. From Slovenian municipalities, only a small part – how many, seven years after the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act – has adopted municipal spatial plans, which means that space is blocked for development, is a major problem. You have examples of municipalities that have adopted spatial plans and in these plans have led a road to the municipal border, and then this ends because the neighboring congregation has not adopted a spatial plan where this road would continue. These are these anomalies, these absurdities, these irrationalities that need to be resolved; I think there are two ways to resolve them: by bringing together the municipalities – we will probably have another debate about this, perhaps on the occasion of my interpretation we will say something about whether the congregations are too small or not too small, whether they are too small or not – and, secondly, by establishing the landscapes. I hope that Slovenian policy will be able to find some solutions in broad agreement, because we need two-thirds solutions for the provinces and for the number, area, jurisdiction and so on. I propose that we try to unify ourselves about some common noun of the provinces, which are the most urgent things that we should get into the jurisdiction of the provinces as quickly as possible, because either the municipalities can't or the state has taken them to itself and has become too central.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u240	Thank you for your answers. I am pleased with certain people, but it seems to me that so far, much has been said in the field of local self-government and almost nothing has been done. Since I think that the debate on regionalisation in the Republic of Slovenia would be more than on the ground, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 October, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be raised by Mrs Iva Dimic, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. To dean jedan, who is excused absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u242	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Mag. Dejan Židan, the minister who is absent today. The Government is a waste disposal regulation in landfills, which is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 61/2011 — Compulsory conduct and other conditions for the operation of landfills. Most existing landfills do not meet the demanding conditions for the operation of the landfill under the current Regulation and are followed by their closure. The transitional and final provisions of this Regulation shall lay down the condition that operators of such existing landfills may be authorised to operate a landfill for a period of five years, so that waste can be disposed of in such landfills for a maximum period of 31 years. 12. 2015, under the conditions set out in Article 62 of the Regulation. Among other things, the condition for the submission of a financial guarantee is set out in accordance with Annex 9 to this Regulation. Many municipal companies operating landfills are in the process of obtaining an environmental permit to operate landfills for non-hazardous wastes by 2015. The fundamental difficulty in obtaining this environmental authorisation is to provide an adequate financial guarantee that may be in the form of a bank deposit, insurance policy or bank guarantee. Calculations of the amount of the financial guarantee produced by ARSO for each landfill shall reach or exceed a million or even a few million euros. Municipal companies do not have the money available at the required level. Slovenian insurance companies are only able to cover up to EUR 500 000 and banks are not interested in issuing bank guarantees. So financial guarantees can't be obtained at all. The increased costs of waste management will undoubtedly be passed on to consumers by municipal companies. This is the solution we are most concerned about in New Slovenia, as this will be another additional burden for households and also for the economy. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, I'm asking you: Are you aware of the issue of obtaining financial guarantees for obtaining an environmental permit for existing waste landfills that will operate only until 31. 12. 2015? Are you going to propose more appropriate legislative solutions on this condition? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u243	Thank you very much. You will receive the reply in writing, as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, we continue with the question raised by the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Mr. Minister, before I ask you a question, I would like to quote you a quote from the Prime Minister. Alenka Bratušek, who said on 27 February this year at the time of her term of office: "One of the objectives which improves our situation is to attract and respect the profession. From top Slovenian experts, people expect politicians to help lead this country, from us, and politicians rightly expect us to know how to find and listen to these top-notch experts, and then push their ideas into a viable management plan with this country. Therefore, the new government will try to attract experts into its work and listen carefully to them." This government has appointed two V.D. Director-General, Mrs Vlasta Poličnik for V.D. Director-General for kindergartens and primary education and Mrs Elviro Šushmelj for V.D. Director-General for Secondary and Higher Education. Is it true that none of the candidates listed have passed a positive test in the Official Council, which tests candidates’ competence? In addition, I would like to remind you that the two directors who previously occupied these cities were from education, including former directors, and that the area they covered was also well carried out and well-known and, of course, carried out the expertise test successfully in the Official Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u245	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's true, your information is correct. This is also in the media. But I would like to say the following when you were just talking about bringing experts into the story. In addition to these two ladies in our ministry, of course, we also had several other competition procedures, and in the three tendering procedures the candidates have already been successful and in the fourth, we do not have a result. So your statement is correct and I am not denying it at all, but of course I tell you that the picture you are presenting is only one-sided and does not reflect the whole situation. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u248	So, Mr. Minister, if you're judging that you don't have to have the leadership skills it requires, say, the Official Council, or anything like that, I would ask you to explain to me: With what quality and knowledge of the field of education did both ladies occupy the said cities? What conditions did they then have to meet if it did not count what was said by the Council of Officials that examined the expertise? Can you expect or can all of us together expect these areas to be successfully managed? I don't know if we're going to be any witnesses – I don't know if we can, Mrs. Potrata, because maybe you'll come along and you'll be able to ask questions. Now I have a word. So, are you assessing that someone who runs an area or is the director of a Directorate has failed to meet some conditions for management and so on — or I am assessing if the Council of Officials, the one who assesses the expertise, that they have not proved themselves – or whether you are still insisting on these decisions for the appointment of both Directors-General. As it's said: Do you know any reasons why we don't know they're there? We know that we have also read in the media that Mrs Šushmelj has been read or reported to, I don't know if this has ever been checked by the faculty that she has similarly copied from foreign literature in her master's degree and so on. I can do her wrong because I don't know what to do. I'm just saying what I read. But I'm curious. What competence do the lady have to be in these places?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Because I've just been challenged, and since you've raised this in the first part of your question, I have to answer you. The positive opinion of the Official Council does not in any way ensure that officials, such as those in the previous Government, would not, for example, issue a concession decision, which has been shown to be unconstitutional, discriminatory, illegal and otherwise. So, you know, if someone has a positive opinion of the Official Council, it's not a guarantee yet. And secondly, if we go to the matter of the Official Council itself and the question of expertise, I have my own, but this time my expert opinion. You know, what we're introducing here, which is called the "new public management", went out of practice elsewhere. So it's a question of, let's say, management skills, which, of course, candidates need, and it's the same thing as having. But I can ask myself about the expertise test, because you know, in that brief hearing, it's very difficult to get to know the work of someone who's been working in some area for decades. That way, I don't deny the opinion of the Official Council. The opinion of the Official Council is final, but it is not legal. I hope that your question as well does not put pressure on the legitimacy of this decision of the Official Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u252	Look, Minister, you could very simply tell me why you've decided for both ladies. I'm sure you have arguments, but I don't know why I can't hear them. But that's your business. I asked you what conditions you have met and what qualities you have proposed to such an important place, it seems important to me. If we talk about what someone once did, you know that in the country of institutions responsible for this, sanctions are also provided for if someone does something wrong, and I am sure that you will take advantage of this opportunity and know that those who have done something wrong will be responsible for it. Since I did not know what I wanted, even though it seems to me that I very clearly asked the question, I suggest that we hold a discussion in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 October, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be raised by the mag. Ivan Vogrin, Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer, who is excused from the meeting today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! It's hard to ask questions to someone who isn't. That's why I think it's one of the clever nonsensees that we have this practice and we keep talking and talking here, I don't know, wall. It would probably make sense to be a little innovative to move this to one of the following meetings. Nevertheless, in my question, I am dealing with the problem of renting premises for the functioning of state bodies. In particular, if a person deals with this area on the Internet or if someone alerts you to it, you will find fascinating things. That Durs Ljubljana rents rooms for, say and write, more than 190,000 euros per month; and this for years and years! This sums up something in two million a year, and when we count, a third of this building would, of course, be owned by Durs, and by 2023 it would be entirely. By 2023 we as a country will be paying someone rent, still tenant for the next fifty years or how long [[...]] I ask the Minister in my question: Where's good management here? With the same Durs walking around, looting the economy and the population – you know, we have really lost our standards of normality. Clear. It'd be good. [[...]] A recent book by Kolaps elite has been published, Mr Drenovac wrote, and the subtitle has the Search for Normality and Progress in a Small European State – Slovenia is meant. Normality would be necessary. Above all, I would expect people who decide in these times of crisis, which raise taxes, burden the economy and the population to make order in their own home, but not just talk. And this Parliament – indeed the word Parliament is the original French word, which means speaking, but it would be good to start acting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u255	Thank you very much. You will also receive a written answer to your question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Matjaž Han, Minister for Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel, will ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u256	Yes, we really need to act, but most of all, on our own. Dear Minister, Honourable Vice President, Your Honor! In times when the crisis is practically after all activities, in particular, the impact of areas that have been and are dependent on heavy industrial activities is mainly related to the exploitation of natural resources. It is precisely Zasavje that is a typical example of this, of jobs, infrastructure, connectivity and overall integrated development of the area of the elephants on coal and related activities. The result is also the construction of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. History also tells us that the Danube-Trieste railway was placed in this area because of the mine. On this basis, I hope to say that the Sussava, as we know it, would not have been without the mine. Today, however, we face great flaws in this room, which are due to the very inactive and, if you like, the stepmotherly relationship of virtually all governments towards this area. The projects are planned, but their implementation, unfortunately, is not visible. I am talking about the hydroelectric power plant chain in Central Savi, the construction of suitable road links and the corresponding plan for the future of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. All this takes away the development potential of Zasav, which is particularly problematic in times of crisis. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary, a very simple question: When will the concession contract for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava be signed? It is not possible to overlook the need to approach the construction of a new road as soon as possible, namely the Hrastnik-Zidani Bridge. I'm asking you: Can we expect Slovenia to run for European funds for this purpose? Dear Minister, due to the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik lost a significant share of its assets in the closure. These are no longer sufficient for the salaries of employees, nor are they sufficient for the safe closure of mine trenches and the rehabilitation of degraded areas. I would also like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Did you at the Ministry consider an initiative to call for research work for Rudnik Brnica? I know that I have asked four questions, I know that I have been relatively short, but the matter is being dragged so long that the mammals would really be happy to answer all these questions clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u258	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr Han, thank you for asking. I'll make sure I'm quick to answer four questions in these five minutes. First, I'm going to touch the concession contract itself. I must say that we are working very well here with the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. The teams worked intensively with both MIP and MKO to prepare the concession contract. I must say that virtually all the details of the concession contract have been harmonised between us. Here I must stress that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is the signatory and proponent of the concession contract as a leading partner. However, we have put the matter in motion by signing the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space in the final stage. What's important is that the only point left open for us in the concession contract is this road you're talking about, the new road between Hrastnik and the Wall Bridge. Here we are talking about an investment between €100 and €120 million. This is the point at which the concession contract actually stands. In fact, we have two aspects of why this matter is so hot. Firstly, the concessionaire in this investment 120 million ensures that, in fact, this investment makes his investment plan unrestrained or messy into red numbers. However, the second part, which is important, which we have been counting on in the past, is likely to be impossible to implement after all the information we have now. I believe that you know very well that, in the next financial perspective, it will virtually not be possible to run for European roads. Roads and road infrastructure in the future financial perspective are not priorities and therefore, after the European Commissioner's warnings, we will not be able to obtain road construction funds. Our solution in this area is moving primarily in this direction that the funds needed to build this road – and I agree that this is really one of the worst roads we have in the country, and I would also like to make this investment ourselves – to try to find a compromise concept where we will all contribute to this investment, on the one hand the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space through the DRSC, on the other hand the municipality with our contribution and, of course, the concessionaire. If we manage to join forces here and find funding to finance this road, all three sides, then I believe that we will also bring the concession contract to an end. As far as Brnice is concerned, here I would focus a little bit more on the problem of RTH, not just RTH, but all energy in Zasavje. You know very well where, since when did this RTH story, then TET pulls. In fact, just closing the RTH started in 2000, it is true that the ZUJF cut down from 66 million to 22 resources to close the mine itself, but I must say that what I saw in all the closure plans and all the plans that management had in the past prepared for the restructuring of this company and for all that we should prepare for employees who would no longer have jobs after 2015 was not something that would convince me that they had done their job properly. Thus, at this point, I have to commend in some way the Court's reaction, which has replaced the Board of Supervisors in the RTH, and I know from my latest information that they are also actively looking for a new director. Here we must be aware that one is the role of the director, who must be the driving force of RTH and the control council, and the other, of course, the state and we as the department of the department. I must say that, at this stage, at our ministry, especially the Director of the Energy Directorate, is actively involved in any particular issue. The issue of Brnica is not only a matter of one particular problem, but it is a matter of all the suspense energy. Here I see the real solution in the whole concept and the package of savoir energy policy resolution. I know that there are quite a few ideas about how to provide jobs for miners that we currently have in RTH. I must say that, even during my ministry, we are regularly in contact with the RTH, so Members from this environment always warn us. I am so sure that we will find a solution in the concept of suction energy for these jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u260	Well, the answer was just the way it was. We are aware and you know very well that miners are just before they go into the pit and strike that every two months we fight and fight down, that they have even money for wages, and this problem needs to be solved in any case. Nothing will help if we make excuses to the Supervisory Council and to individuals in this supervisory world, because I hope that one or two people do not stop the suction energy. That's why I want to know: Why has it been so long since February of this year that this initiative to call for research work in Rudnik Brnica has not been considered? Does this happen to be related to the purchase of the Termoelectric Trbovlje, which we find in the media when an investor from Russia came forward for this purchase? On that road you mentioned, the Oak-Wall Bridge, I'd say. If the state, officials, here find some creative options that will be financed from Europe as well, because we know that one part of the highways can be financed from Europe, I am afraid that the municipalities that are – must not forget – are in serious trouble, so a decision has been taken on additional temporary measures for these three municipalities because they have 18% unemployment, I am talking about Trbów, Hrastnik and Radeč, and this municipality cannot help and build such a huge investment. Here the state or officials at the Ministry of Infrastructure will have to, I'll say, step up a little bit and do a little bit more than they have done so far. As far as the concession contract is concerned, I am assured from the Ministry of Agriculture that they have the matter regulated, that the matter has stopped at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, for a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. What happened in February before my term of office, I find it difficult to comment, nor would I like to comment on what took place during my term of office. After the first 10 days of my performance, I had a delegation from RTH. As far as the powers themselves, to whom something departs, it is clear here what are the powers of the Minister and what are the powers of the Director of the Supervisory Board. Here I cannot agree with you, Director RTH must be the driving force. RTH has 14.5 million Euros of credit, which is why banks have no wages today due to bank notes. The restructuring and reprogramming of credits is not the job of a minister, but it is the job of the director of the company, I hope that you agree with me here, and of course the supervisory board that brings it. I can tell you my personal opinion, but the powers to run the company are known to be in whose hands they are. As for Brice herself and the sale, I wouldn't want to speculate as much as it was related to the sale of TET as it was. We also know what the powers are here. TET is currently owned by the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, Holding the Slovenian Power Plant has its own supervisory board and has its own director. And as far as sales are concerned: there was absolutely no visit to this topic or any additional interest in us at the Ministry in all these rumors around the buyer from Russia. I must say that as far as TET sales are concerned, if this story is directed towards investment and further development of TET and then further exploitation of Brnica or employment of the miners we currently have in RTH – I absolutely support this story.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the first round of questions sent and are moving on to the second round of questions sent. The second round will start with a mag. Katarina Hočevar will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, once again, welcome! Minister, today I am interested in higher education and universities in Slovenia. We have five of them, four of them are public, and we have about thirty higher education institutions. The size of these two largest Slovenian universities and the resulting centralisation of higher education in Slovenia is strongly estranged from the existing system of higher education institutions in comparable countries of the European Union. For example, if I mention the University of Ljubljana, there are over 45,000 students enrolled each year, and on the other hand we have the University of Nova Gorica, which does not include a thousand students. That's why I'm interested because in recent years, we've been able to see in public the dilemma of whether we have too many or too few universities: Is this the number currently in Slovenia optimal? I also want to know: What's your position? I'm also interested in: Do you plan any measures at your Ministry to adapt to Slovenian higher education? Do you think that decentralisation of higher education could bring added value to the region and thus improve the quality of higher education in Slovenia? I want to know: Is your ministry inclined to establish new universities? Where in Slovenia do you think that the environment that you think has already been formed is an appropriate core that could be connected to another university? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I will say this: the only measures we plan are only and must be of quality. It's the only imperative. For the decentralisation of "per se" I must say that I am not interested and I should not be interested – "per se", I speak as such. But if it leads to better quality, then yes. If we go about this first. We have a little more independent higher education institutions, 46 in addition to five universities, of which three are purely public, one, as you said, private, though established by public institutions, and one, which, if we are looking at the Apes, is the status of even a private institution or an international organization, we are talking about the Euro-Mediterranean University. In addition, we have 50 higher vocational schools in this ecosystem, as I call it. In this way, we have twice as many higher education programmes as they have in other countries. We are talking about 891 higher education programmes, where there are about 200 programmes per million people. We have over 400 of them, then we have one large university where you yourself have found that this university is departing from that European average, or the other two public universities do not leave to that extent. Here I have statistics; in Estonia, for example, there are an average of about 7,000 students, in Finland about 8 thousand students, in the Netherlands about 11,000 students per university. What I want to tell you is that fragmentation is not necessarily positive, and last but not least, the University of Ljubljana is the only one in Slovenia, which is on the Shanghai scale of 500 top universities. The university is not only a financial resource, but it is also a question of human resources, but of course the techniques of research potential and all that you really need from the university. But I wanted to mention another thing that, I think, has now passed this spring, which is also the concentration of all these financial, human, technical and so on resources. This means that we are at QS, i.e. Quality Survey, in the quality review of the world among the 150 best at the University of Ljubljana in accounting and finance, and among the 200 best in philosophy, political science, international relations, communication and media studies. I'm just saying this for the sake of illustration, because I just want to tell you that at least for me, as I said at the beginning, the only imperative quality is quality. I think it must be that guide for all of us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u267	Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u268	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. You're interested in quality, you said. Of course, I fully agree with you, but also the area of higher education is somehow facing two major problems, this is funding and abuse. That's why I want to know: Have you given any thought to the introduction of the so-called voucher system? This is said to be possible for everyone to have access to education, but at the same time with greater individual responsibility, because we know that the current funding of universities or higher education institutions based on enrollment does not really help to increase quality in higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u270	Thank you very much. As you probably know, funding for higher education is one of the main issues that we want to solve in the novel of the Higher Education Act. You know that for two years now we have a decision by the Constitutional Court ordering us to stop funding higher education under the regulation. You're partly right when you talk about the so-called chieftain, so how many students are enrolled and then the money is distributed. This is partly because, not only since the beginning of this mandate, but in general, we are withdrawing from this principle and moving toward other principles. This is the principal, so the registered number of students, will not, and in my opinion, must not be the criteria for funding universities. As far as money for higher education is concerned in general, all research shows that higher education is systematically funded. If it's worth trying for the future, it's right here, and that's that part of the story that we're going to, hopefully, be able to arrange in the Higher Education Act. As far as abuse is concerned, I think we're on the same side. Although we are not thinking about the sheep, we have built-in other restrictions that will allow – and I wish that this would not only be in higher education, but also in secondary and higher education – to prevent these abuses in this entire ecosystem; and I am very much in agreement with you. I think taxpayers' money is too valuable to be abused in such a cheaply measured work as it is in higher education. I think that this is not the way and everything we are doing and what we will bring before this Parliament as a proposal will go in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Jakob President to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is excused to be absent today, and by Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague! So I expect a written answer from the Minister of Finance in one part, and I have the following question for Minister Gregor Virant. The rationalisation of the functioning of the administration and the public sector as a whole is clearly necessary and welcome. I'm sure we all agree on that. However, this should be carried out only on the basis of a thorough analysis of the situation and the realistic impact of both the financial and the consequences for citizens and citizens or business operators for which the public authorities provide services. This means that the services will continue to be accessible in the form and extent they are most used or as they come to us all, citizens and citizens. Despite some positive effects of the rationalisation of the operation of the state administration, such as the merger of ministries and the like, the consequences of such a reorganisation are largely negative or do not bring any significant financial savings and further distance the country from the people. I have in mind in particular the abolition of police administrations in Krko, Slovenj Gradec, Postojna in 2011 and the latest case in 41. – according to my information – tax exposures on 1 July of this year. In addition, some kind of design of administrative sites is forecast to be more substantial than the 58 administrative units so far, which would subsequently become the exposition of those administrative districts. In my opinion, this reorganisation is about a desire for centralisation and an even greater shift in the functioning of state authorities from citizens and citizens. That's why I'm asking you: What are the planned savings in the reorganisation of the state administration in the field of tax and administrative installations? Are you assessing that this reorganisation will have positive effects both for citizens and citizens and for business operators? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u274	Thank you. Since Minister Chufar's colleague is not here, I will only concentrate on the answers to that part of the question concerning the reorganisation of administrative units. A similar question, almost identical to what I got from my colleague Visiak today, was quite a conversation we had. I'll do it again. I think it is also right that this is heard as often as possible in this House, so that there will be no misinformation and reporting on the ground. It is true that at the Ministry we are preparing a reorganisation of administrative units. The system of administrative units works relatively well today. I would say very well: they provide good services to citizens and businesses, there is no delay, there is no backlog, people are satisfied with their services. Administrative units have also been very rationalised, the number of employees has been severely reduced by about 18% since 2005. In short, I could say that if the whole state administration worked the way administrative units worked, then it would be good. And I agree with you when you are engaged in a reorganisation, especially the reorganisation of such a system that works well, be very careful. Since this is an area that I know very well, I will also be very careful and we will only go in the direction that will bring improvements, further improvements, for a quality service for citizens and for rationalisation, or for administrative units to do their work with even lower costs. Of course, I cannot accurately predict how much the restructuring of administrative units is going to save, but I can say that this reorganisation will make it even easier than it has done so far to gradually reduce the number of employees; not by forgiving, because I am not forgiving, I have proved to be a good way to reduce the number of employees that have so far. This will continue, with reorganized administrative units even easier. This reorganisation will mean, simplified, that all services, all factory services remain where, on the ground, in today's administrative units: ID cards, passports, building permits, residence permits for foreigners and all other matters remain where they are today. So, people will have the service at hand. But what we would draw to the level of administrative thefts is directing, logistics, so to speak, human resources functions, financial, accounting and everything else, which is really not necessary for each administrative unit to have separately. Not every administrative unit needs its IT, or its own human resources service, or its own accounting. And here much can be saved and rationalized. In addition, if a number of administrative units are pulled together, it can be much easier to arrange things, work, files, and even people if necessary. If bottlenecks occur in one administrative unit, the neighbor will be able to jump to help because the administrative district, chief of the administrative district, will temporarily assign some people from one administrative unit to another administrative unit. Today, this is extremely difficult, extremely difficult. So I guarantee that this reorganisation will not be a revolution, it is a small movement, painless one that will add another stone to the mosaic of rationalisation of administrative units. At the same time, they will enable us to also carry out horizontal integration of the state administration. You today have a bunch of regional units, outposts, administrative units, a variety of organizational forms of government in the same territory, which are unrelated, each acting on its own. Each has its own cars, its own employees, its own money, its own financial plan If we combined it and at the level of administrative districts and at the level of administrative units, we could make substantial use of resources and employees and cars, money and material equipment and everything that belongs to it. [[...]] As I told my colleague Visiak earlier, we will discuss the number, areas and seats in the National Assembly, because you need to know that this reorganisation is a legal matter, although we could theoretically implement it even through a government regulation, I want this to be done transparently and that you also tell your Members and that we will eventually resolve it through amendments to the Law on Public Administration. It is my word, however, that we will not distance our services from our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. President, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u276	Thank you for your answers so far. Given that you are in charge both of the state and of the local communities, let me point out just a few examples, because I came here in conversations with people in specific areas, in particular in Koroška, in our region and elsewhere, to some of the knowledge and there was a lot of information that, according to my opinion, does not even provide a rational organisation, let alone good arrangements for citizens and citizens or that people get service to those who also deserve it – in a particular area. You have already talked about regionalisation, about the assembly of municipalities, and I am particularly pleased with the part where you said that individual tasks should be combined in the municipalities, not to bring together the municipalities as a matter of priority. But just like that, by the way. See, in other areas, a centralisation is envisaged for social work centres. I estimate that accessibility to services will be significantly reduced in this area, not only in some of the leading jobs, but also in purely professional jobs. For Durs, I have already mentioned, the Geodetic Administration I have a case where leaving one of the Gursa employees could not be replaced, but an additional job was carried out at the Gursa headquarters in Ljubljana, because of the fact that one job was released within Gurs. Difficulties are in the Institute of Forests – an attempt to remove regional units in the most forested areas of Slovenia and so on. There's a lot of work to be done for you and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u278	Thank you. All possible attempts at such reorganisation will be monitored. As I said before, we will not let the service move away from the citizens. It makes sense, for example, to abolish some exhibitions or some local offices where they appear throughout the week three parties – I cariculate. We're not in a situation where we can afford some sort of superstandard in government. These times have passed irrevocably, and we must pay attention to these things. Territorial arrangements should be made for the administration of state according to the needs of the population. So if people have a need for a service, if this need is sufficient to ensure that public servants are fully employed, then it makes sense to keep things up, otherwise it does. We are monitoring the reorganisation of the tax administration, following closely. We have assurances from the management of the tax administration that by removing the exposures and maintaining the tax offices they provide all those direct contacts with the citizens, the parties that are urgently needed. I must say that we do not have any complaints from the parties, i.e. citizens or businesses, so far. I am and there's some mayor complaining because maybe it's getting a little less important because some exposition was canceled there. But in order for people to turn around and say, now I can't get this service or anyone else, and I can't. However, I am very careful about this, and if it turns out that the quality of services is declining, it is said that the administration is moving away from some places where it should be present because people want because they need these services, then I will react immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u279	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question raised by Mrs Romana Tomc to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting, both of you ministers! Dr. Virant, I have some very exact questions for you regarding the promotion of strengthening the so-called e-government. In a bid to remove bureaucratic barriers, the Government has also undertaken reforms of information systems related to the implementation of the eGovernment project. We welcome all the positive effects arising from this project, but on the other hand, there are also significant financial implications for both the state budget and perhaps other cash registers. I therefore ask you very specifically: What is the current knowledge of so-called hardware or hardware for individual direct and indirect budget users? What's the plan for the next two years? How much is the value of software for the same users this year? What's the plan for the next two years? In addition, maintenance costs also arise, not only by buying this equipment, so I ask you: What are the maintenance costs? Because we know that maintenance costs are sometimes very high. Two more questions: In the last three years, which five providers in the field of information technology have obtained the most jobs or the most transactions in terms of the value of contracts concluded with budgetary users? How much were these amounts, or what was the value of these contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u282	Thank you for the questions. You've opened up very specific questions, a local issue. First, I must say that I agree with you that Slovenian e-government and Slovenian state IT is on a rather high level, that it is of quality. You remember that in 2007 we were, after Capgemini's measurements, not commissioned by the European Commission, even the second best country in the European Union when it comes to accessible services for citizens, so that is when our e-government was at the very top of Europe. Now we've slipped a little bit, we're still above average, but we're not bad. The Im Project was awarded the United Nations Prize, the eSocial Project was awarded the United Nations Prize, so we really have something to boast about here. We also have a well-functioning infrastructure system, both data infrastructures and communication infrastructures. The questions raised by you, however, relate to the price, costs and efficiency of state information technology. I must say that my opinion – and you are probably asking these questions because you share this opinion – is that Slovenian state information technology is too expensive and not very effective. In recent years, funds have been declining. If in 2010 only 86 million were earmarked for information technology, 2011-99, in 2012 only 86 million more, it is very clear that the amount of money allocated to IT is falling significantly, with investments in particular being reduced, in terms of the purchase of hardware and software equipment, while maintenance funds remain at about the same level, somewhere between eight and nine million. Money would be enough if you were well-arranged. The data I gave you is a rough estimate we got from the Ministry of Finance. In such a short time, some very specific data could not be obtained. I also received information about the five largest suppliers, access – even on the Supervisor. These are IBM Slovenia, TriGem, Aster, SRC and SMT Slovenia. I have no accurate information on how many of these businesses have concluded and because I would not like to be talked into saying that if you want this information, then you can get a written reply below. Of course, it's not some kind of blacklist. These are companies that have entered into business and also provide for the country with this service or supply equipment and services. I must also say that only about 20% of the money earmarked for information technology centralised within the Ministry of the Interior, sometimes by the Ministry of Public Administration, although this ministry provides a large part of the central infrastructure, horizontal infrastructure, service infrastructure, communication infrastructure, as well as a number of software solutions, such as for the eGovernment portal, document or office operations and an electronic deposit system, electronic service; in short, all those systems that all authorities need. There are a lot of problems in this state information technology, and right now we are preparing possible solutions for these problems and for money to be spent more rationally on information technology. In my firm belief, it will be necessary to centralise resources, i.e. centralise resources and supplies, both human resources and financial resources, in order not to allow individual ministries to build their own kindergartens and their own silos, and to ensure that the government of the same things will not acquire the same solutions more than once, but that things, the solutions needed by all the resources, will be obtained and maintained in one place. This is one of the measures we have in mind. Then there are uniform technology standards here. Then there are, as it is said, single acquisitions, so that the information systems that are procured are compatible with each other, that there is interoperability between them so that they can talk to each other and other things that I will probably be able to talk about in response to your additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Do you have a wish to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I would not have it if the Minister had answered more precisely the exact questions; however, perhaps we would have some further details, but now only a comment, Minister. You yourself have made a wonderful point also in the context of the preparation of our budget, which we are dealing with these days. You yourself have said that the field of information technology in the state administration is very irrational and that there are still great opportunities for rationalisation and thus also for what savings. If I understood you correctly, so quickly, when you mentioned these numbers, about 100 million, or a little less than 100 million at the annual level, goes only from the state budget, and then you will explain whether I understood or not, for information support or for information technology. This is said to be €500 million in five years. These are really huge funds, and I believe there are still possibilities for rationalisation within this. I wouldn't have hoped to assume how many additional funds there are then that you say you don't have an overview of how much individual users use money to do that. But I would conclude by reminding you that all things are not so well arranged. You mentioned the first place of the eSocial project at a competition, but recently the Minister of Labour explained to us that although [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the past since the entry into force of the law still stands at the Ministry with 11,000 complaints to be resolved. [[...]] In short, there is still a lot of room for improvement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u286	I agree with that. There are still many possibilities for improvement, but eSocial is a typical example of how the country can clean up some system, some area. You will remember how bad we had in Slovenia because, for social assistance, people who were formally receiving very low or no benefits were owned by Mercedes, real estate and so on. The EESC also allows the centre for social work on a tray from different databases to obtain information on whether the applicant owns real estate, cars, or whether his family members, such as the applicant's income, his family members and so on and so on, the situation in the accounts, is all in one place. Of course, it's not 100%, but there's been a lot of cleansing. I tried to give you as much exact information as possible, and I'll say it again. In 2010, some over 100 million, in 2011 – 99, in 2012 – 86 million, in 2012, I said 86 million, and for 2014 there are 86 million and only 77 million in the 2015 budget. Money is enough for state information, but it will really have to be used more rationally. It will be necessary to open up competition with open standards so that we will not always be bound to one and the same suppliers, which are purely quality and good companies, but we know if you are dependent on one supplier, if you do not open up competition, then it sets conditions for you and you cannot put them on it. We will also work on more modern business models. Large business systems, large companies today serve the system to not buy hardware and software equipment, but to buy services from service and data clouds. This is the solution or direction in which state computer science will also go if I receive adequate support from the Government. The big problem is so-called kindergartens. In individual ministries of the same solutions that have already been developed, I have already seen countless of these cases and we are trying to take action, they are buying again. For example, the e-learning system; one ministry developed it, the other, the third, and the fourth ministry then publishes some calls for the same matter. Or: a system for cohesion and structural resources is being built, but we would also connect electronic signing services and I don't know what else, although we have already developed an electronic signing system within the eGovernment portal. In short, this is a pile of irrationalities that need to be cleared up and [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Would you like a procedural proposal, Mrs. Tomc? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u288	If you'll excuse me, it's not exactly a procedural proposal, but the Minister has previously offered to submit this information to my questions in writing. Instead of discussing you in the National Assembly, I would like to ask for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Now the next question will be asked by the mag. Mr Ivan Vogrin, Minister for Economic Development and Technology Stan Stepichnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! Typically, politicians, ministers, state officials are full of mouths about the de-liberation of Slovenia and about working a friendly business environment for businesses, craftsmen and so on. The matter that I have asked you about is one of those things; so we have prescribed that the Ministry of Labour, or the Ministry of Labour, should pursue all craftsmen, entrepreneurs, operators working at a height of more than two metres. In practice this is so that in the morning an electrician must send an application to the Inspectorate before he goes to one house to install electrical installations; and if he goes to another place every day again. With all the big words of how we work or even have the right business environment to operate businesses, the question is whether such a way of regulating things is appropriate or whether this leads us to a circle of successful European countries. Indeed, it is already being noted by all analysts who are involved in this that craftsmen, entrepreneurs and businesses spend a lot of time writing reports, reporting such nonsense as this. Above all, they spend a lot of time on what does not create added value – which you often say is to support industries with greater added value, but the country must also do something to ensure that this greater added value can be created. If we worry too much that people will not fall two feet off the ladder, and we think that the country is the one who has to warn people that if they go up to a height greater than two meters to take care of their safety or safety, then we are probably on a dead end. I personally believe that this should be resolved, but I also ask for your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u292	Thank you very much for your words, thank you very much, Mr Vogrin, for the initiative more than the question. I agree with what you said. True, safety and health at work are defined both in the Law on Safety and Health at Work and in the Regulation on Safety and Health at Work in Temporary and Moving Constructions. Each employer must have a laboratory, and the safety assessment declaration must specify the means and measures to ensure safety and health at work. It is probably pointless to introduce additional measures, especially when it comes to high fines, I think they are disproportionate and it would be sufficient if the employer sent to the inspector by phone, SMS or electronic beginning parts at a height of more than 2 metres or vice versa, that the Inspectorate himself obtains information in some form of a company that has a plan for that day or one week ahead, if they carry out some work that is more than two metres high and then has the opportunity to look at it. I therefore fully agree with you that this is an additional bureaucratic obstacle and the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology will act in this direction to try to achieve lower fines and remove this bureaucratic obstacle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Next up is Dragutin Mate. He has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Mr Omerzel's premises. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! A few days ago, both in the media and in the European Union communications and press conferences held by the competent Commissioners, we were able to read that the Commission had prepared a report and confirmed 250 key infrastructure facilities at EU level for the period 2014-2020 worth EUR 5.85 billion. Among them are projects in Slovenia and I think they are all very important. I am interested in a very specific question about this. In fact, Commissioner Potočnik used a very specific terminology to present these projects. He said that "Slovenia and Italy have reached an agreement on a gas terminal in the northern Adriatic, allowing the Commission to list this project". This is a quote from his speech published by the European Commission's Representation in Slovenia. Since I am a member of quite a few working bodies in the National Assembly and I am not aware that any such agreement would be published, concluded, agreed, not even with the draft of these arrangements, with nothing, of course, the Minister asks you: What is the content of this Agreement? I hope that I will not only get the answer, as it is stated, that this agreement will be adopted unanimously, and that we can also see in our media, Slovenia and Italy, because it does not say anything. I'm interested in a shortcut: When will the Members of the National Assembly see this agreement — either in the form of a treaty or that it is a record of an agreement? When will the Slovenian public, including the one concerned by the gas terminal in the northern Adriatic, be able to see what this agreement is like and what guarantees it gives to our country to protect the interests of Slovenia? I'm also interested in: Did the Italian side present the location in any form of Slovenian settlement or suggest to it where the location in the northern Adriatic could be – given that the northern Adriatic is a very large concept and does not only include the Adriatic Sea, which is shared by Slovenia and Italy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u296	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr Mate, thank you for asking the question! The very history of the gas terminal the specific location of Zavlje began long before my time, but it experienced all the intensity of the talks right at the time of my term of office. What was somewhat disappointing to me at first was the unresponsiveness of the Italian side, the unwillingness to talk. A number of interventions were to meet with the Italian minister at a working bilateral meeting, and we are trying to find a solution together. I personally requested assistance from the informal meeting of the Ministers of the European Commissioner for Energy, and yet this meeting did not take place. The Prime Minister of Italy also intervened with the Italian Prime Minister, and after all these pressures on Italy, of course, this media-high-response event took place earlier, where Slovenia voted against the so-called PCI list, where it had its seven good projects and the disputed project Zavlje, where Italy somehow relied on our naivety and somehow tried to bring the so-called gas terminals to this list of priority projects in Žavlja. After all these events after the vote of Slovenia against it, you probably also remember what serious pressures there have been as regards this negative voice of Slovenia in Europe. And only after all the pressure has the Italian colleague, the Minister of Energy, agreed to the meeting. I met him in Rome, where we had very rough, intense negotiations, discussions on this location, where Italy was also clear that we would not give up in this case. What is important to clarify in detail is how the matter progressed. We have reached agreement with the Italians that the location of Zavlje, the gas terminal in Žavaje, is not what has been defined in advance. What is important is that we have agreed that a gas terminal in the northern Adriatic is going to the PCI project list itself, which is not. When this project is included, i.e. the gas terminal in the North Adriatic, the priority list is clearly inscribed on the delegated act, that they will be written as regards the location or specificly as follows: "Italia will determine the location and Slovenia must give its consent to this location." Thus, in other words, the Italians cannot in any way determine the location without having the consent of the Slovenian parties to this location. I consider this to be a great success for Slovenia, and I am also convinced that an additional aspect is an important, very correct and a start to a positive relationship between the two neighbourhoods. I believe that good neighbourly relations with Italians, between Italy and Slovenia, can only be positive and that this cooperation is important. I think that we have also taken a big step forward and I am sure that in the future, when Italy determines the location, of course, it will not force this location to put priority without the consent of the Slovenian side. As far as the decision on the new location is concerned, in fact, we have not yet received any information from the Italian side so that the new location is already known, and certainly at the time when the Italians propose this location, Slovenia will clearly determine whether it is acceptable to Slovenia or not and will respond accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Mate, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course I'd like a refill. In fact, I got part of the answer, I know and from my own experience, and of course I appreciate the Minister's words when he described that these talks were extremely difficult and tiring, and I know how it looks when he negotiates with other countries or at EU level on such projects and the possibility of blocking such a major project as the Commission has presented, but I have not received an answer to one of the two questions. I did not get an answer when Members of Parliament will be sitting in closed session, open meeting, at any meeting of the Committee or for infrastructure and space or external matters, where such arrangements would be subject to, get the text of the text agreed upon or the minutes of this agreement. When are we gonna get this? You didn't tell me this, I can trust you with what it says, but I think as a Member I have the right to see this physically, if it is also necessary to be confidential and so that the meeting is closed to the public. There's no problem here. But the problem is, is what I asked you: the notion of the North Adriatic. North Adriatic shares more countries than just two. The geographical concept of the North Adriatic is not the Gulf of Markets, because otherwise it would be the Gulf of Markets and the problems we have in connection with the terminal. We were talking about Zavaja and I think that there was a tactical error here when we talked only about Zavaja, both žavalje and so-called "off-shore" terminal at sea using the same technology; they use technology to leak gas with the help of sea water heat. This causes the same problems, and these problems will be major and will have a strong impact on the environment. That's why I'm once again interested in: Why is the term North Adriatic used? Why, if it is the northern Adriatic, has not yet been included in this agreement another country which has to give its consent and has been a member of the EU since this summer? I want to know: When are you going to give us this agreement, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. As far as the first part of the answer is concerned, where is this agreement between Slovenia and Italy written down — what is crucial. In the case of the delegated act itself, which lists all projects including these 7 good Slovenian projects, the project itself is the gas terminals in the northern Adriatic. Therefore, the delegated act of the European Commission contains an agreement that Italy must agree on this location at the time of the proposal for a location. So, once again, on a delegated act. But speaking of the location itself, of course I agree that the Northern Adriatic is a broad concept, but one thing is important here – for Slovenia, of course. By choosing the right to give Italian consent to the location itself, of course, it is clearly defined that without Slovenia, nothing can happen in the northern Adriatic. What is even more important; Slovenia will, of course, assess the influential area – you have already considered this once in the National Assembly and also confirmed what is the influential territory of Slovenia – and if it is outside the influential territory of Slovenia, then it is a location that must certainly not be disputed for Slovenia. When you mention Croatia, another aspect is important here at the gas terminals themselves, and the energy aspect is also important. From this point of view, however, diversification of resources and thus, of course, the focus on the final consumer and on cheaper energy in Slovenia is very important. We know that Croatia works very intensively not by placing gas terminals on Krk, the specific location of Omisalj, where they currently have oil terminals, and this is a location that is completely outside the influential area of Slovenia and which we support as energy on the other hand – Croatia has become part of the European Union – and thus, as an additional source of cheaper gas for Slovenia, is absolutely positive and acceptable. It's also with this terminal that the Italians are going to set up. If it is not environmentally controversial, so if the latest technology is used, of course there is also talk of "on-shore" terminals, so we are talking about terminals on the coast, not those "off-shore" on the sea itself. From this point of view, this is also absolutely positive for Slovenia as a diversification of resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u302	Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, I would like us to talk about this subject more broadly. Given that we did not have the opportunity to be familiar with these arrangements before they were so relatively loosely recorded in the Commissioner's or European Commission's document, I would like to discuss this at the meeting if the Minister did not express any willingness in his reply to deliver the minutes of these talks to the National Assembly, if he already thinks that the Slovenian public does not deserve to know exactly what was going on and what was going on there and exactly what was going on. And I quote again, Mr Potočnik said precisely: "At the same time, I would also like to welcome the agreement reached between Slovenia and Italy on the gas terminal in the northern Adriatic, which allowed the Commission to list this project." I want to know: What kind of deal is this? I would like to have a debate on this, I would like to see a record of these discussions because I have the right to do so. I have the right to do so as a Member, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, because I have the right to do so as a citizen of Slovenia. The minister simply did not promise or offer us this, if you can come and take a look, we will put it in a closed session — that is not the case. The fact that it is written only in a European Commission document that this will be done in agreement with Slovenia certainly opens up some open areas. I want to know: What is the meaning of the word "agreement" explicitly used by the Commissioner? I don't interpret it, that's what it says. This has been made public by the European Commission. That is what the Commissioner, who also advocates the interests of Slovenia in Brussels, said himself. Of course, I think that even the state-of-the-art technology, including off-shore terminals, as it is now going to be, is using technology where marine water heat is used to gas liquid gas. It is said that huge amounts of seawater will go through devices, through technology to help fuel the gas, or to help it escape. This will have a terrible impact on the environment. I'm also interested in discussing: What is this northern Adriatic? Is that possible in front of the Venice? Is it possible he'll be in front of Rimini? This is also the northern Adriatic. Or at Ancona, which is also the geographical northern Adriatic, but there the Italians already have their pipeline, they have it up to Venice, they also have it up against Vidum. And it's very hard for them to drag him to Trieste. There are other stories in the back, some other interests of individual lobbying. Really, I'd like to know: What the Ministry has done to fully protect Slovenian interests [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u303	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. The following will be again answered by Minister Samo Omerzel, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially the ministers! We also keep touching on certain development opportunities in this House, either on individual committees or when we discuss budgets. There is always a focus on the placement of individual projects, objects in space. We touch on the way in, we talk about delays in the adoption of various spatial plans. That is why I am asking the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, given that we often hear criticism at the expense of the slow placement of the facilities into the space and, on the other hand, we are seeing on the Ministry's websites that many state spatial plans are also adopted but are not in implementation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for an accurate time analysis: On which state spatial plans have construction work not yet started, and at what stage is there an individual procedure? I think that this answer is important, including from the point of view of the adoption of the budget, which will shortly be at the seats of Members, and also from the point of view of the fact that we know some citizens to respond to the stage at which the individual projects that we so like to mention in the debates are at which stage, from different development axes to other tracks, are at which stage. However, everything is linked to the stage or to the state spatial plan adopted. So I'd like to ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Krivec. Here you go, Minister, Mr. Just Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u306	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Krivec, thank you very much for the question. As far as the VAT is concerned, I have the next proposal. Indeed, we have a full list of all VATes per individual status, i.e. what has been done, which are at this stage, that the investor is still obtaining documentation or the procedure for obtaining a building permit. In response, I can hand over the entire list because it is really huge or we can send it to you in digital form, as you prefer. But I'm just going to give you a few examples from different areas. For example, in particular in the field of railway infrastructure, Prague-Hodoš was confirmed in the DDP in 2009. This project is in the process of implementation, and I am also talking about the part of the investment, which is partly drawn or invested from European funds, a very successful story, we are talking about €360 million of European funds for the investment of Prague-Hodoš, so this project is going on. Then, say, in the field of energy, we have a positive story on the Beričeva– Trbovlje remote network where we have twice 110 kilovolts of built project. A similar story is two hundred kilovolts at the Bericovo–Krška section, and the project is also completed. However, we do have a whole bunch of projects where the VAT is completed, but the investor is still preparing the investor's documentation. These projects are practically from infrastructure for railways to road infrastructure, to electricity infrastructure. This is the case with the DNA itself, for example, for the Railways, where activities are practically based on the environmental consensus of IKOin so on. This list and the status of individual projects will be submitted to you in response, but of course we can send them to you in this form and digitally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u308	Thank you, Minister for your answer. I also have to say that I expected it to be in the same direction, but I am glad that this list is ready and I agree with the Minister's proposal to provide this in electronic form for further use. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u309	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potrat, or to the absent Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mag. Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u310	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Let me begin by saying that, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I expect an oral reply from the Minister at the next meeting. My question, which I have also written to the Minister, is: Why does Slovenia, in its rules on the collection of specimens of species of brown bear and wolf of nature, which are the basis for the expert opinions of the Institute for Forests and the Institute for the Protection of Nature, deviate from the Habitat Directive, which states that the State may derogate from the strict protection system only when three conditions are met? I have raised this issue even when the Committee on Agriculture did not present a mandate on the legal protection of wolves in Slovenia, but I have followed a number of public responses to the encounters of people with bears and wolves, and more as the time of the expiry of the rules on the collection of specimens of species of brown bear and wolf, this is said to be on 30 September this year, various messages have been hosting, including damage caused by the nature of the great beast. Interestingly, the regulation or regulation does not mention rice and jackals, although we know that after the threat of rice it is even more endangered and that jackals do not actually mention it, even though hunters perceive it in the environment. Where do I see the problem? The problem I see is that after a review of all these literature available, more needed to be done for the acceptability of interacting with the great beasts in our country. If we were to manage this, if we were to engage more than once in the conversation, the different stakeholders involved in meeting large beasts would probably be more tolerant of interacting with large beasts. But let me draw attention to just one fact, even though they say that by adopting a decree on the taking of large beasts, even by increasing the acceptability of the lives of great beasts with us, there is no evidence of the harm caused by the great beasts. Since there are more shootings, there is not so much reduction in the damage caused by the great beasts. Given that this is only the first part of the question, I will continue the next time the Minister responds to [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u311	Thank you very much. You have made a procedural proposal and will receive the Minister's oral reply at the next meeting. As a last question, Marka Pavlisic will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Stepan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u312	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! About six months ago, Members of the National Assembly were amending the law which allowed Cimos to be assisted in the form of a state guarantee of €35 million. According to the State Secretary of Gaspar Gašpar Mišić, this particular company had an outstanding national and local significance and potential for successful development. This position was also defended by you. As far as I am aware, the European Commission has provisionally approved the aid by 21 November of this year. I want to know: How much of the total €35 million has Cimos already pumped, and how much more is planned? In an interview with Primorska novice on Thursday, 17 October 2013, the new president of the administration of Koper Cimos highlighted the fact that Cimos would need more money for further development. What is your position on this statement in the light of the fact that the country is becoming the majority owner of a corruption company? What is the Government's scenario if the European Commission does not adopt the Cimos Business Restructuring Programme on 21 November and terminates the state aid programme? And most importantly: What are the consequences of granting a guarantee to Cimos in practice? Is the restructuring going according to plan? Is the company fully resolved by means of a guarantee; are business results better or are jobs secure? Or have we just bought some time and social peace for €35 million and allowed former Secretary of State Gaspar Gaspard Mišić to pave the way for the administration of Luka Koper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. Cimos is one typical company in Slovenia, which belongs to 30% of manufacturing companies where liquidity needs to be resolved in the first part and capital adequacy in the second part. Cimos, as you know, with 35 million – this is an approved state aid, which has already been exhausted and the restructuring programme must then be adopted by the European Commission by November – somehow he spent these liquidity assets on his crediting of turnover and in part for development. And the second part at Cimos wasn't made. This is an arrangement of capital adequacy. As you know, Cimos has about 80, 90 million equity there. He owes over 350 million dollars. This relationship is extremely unpleasant. Therefore, it was also envisaged to obtain a strategic partner or to convert banks into equity loans in order to improve this capital adequacy of Cimos and not have so much pressure on liquidity. If you have very little equity, a lot of credit, interest is very high, usually short-term loans, then the company goes from month to month into a larger liquidity trap or hole. The assessment was when we assess companies under the restructuring and aid law that if Cimos disinvested, if Cimos made a good restructuring programme, the development, business, financial, and disinvestment energy part – as we know, Litostroj Power – and the agricultural part, then retain this healthy core, especially the automotive part, and it can become a very profitable and good business because these programmes at Cimos represent a significant global share in the automotive industry when it comes to pedal assemblies or turbocompressors. These are the two programmes that can enable Cimos to develop further. Well, it's also about Cimos having an extremely large number of employees, and if Cimos went bankrupt, it would be a threat to as many regions as possible, especially the problem is that there are several groups of socially disadvantaged, from women over 50 years of age and so on. This aspect has also somehow been seen, as the country has to make sure that as many jobs as possible are maintained. This restructuring of capital adequacy is yet to be done in Cimos. I think Cimos has a chance to get out of these problems, but it all depends on how quickly he implements the restructuring programme. I think the European Commission will grant him a restructuring programme and then it is a matter of realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-21-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Minister. But we have also exhausted all the questions, all the answers. I interrupt this item on the agenda, and we continue with it on Thursday, 24 October, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the vote. For today, I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we continue tomorrow at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you so much and good night.
