ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended: Mr Branko Smodiš, Mr Jožef Kavticnik and Mr Peter Wilphan. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 2 July 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We are moving on to a decision, and before that, please continue to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 16th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 33 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government to the opposition and to the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. And as always in the regular session, I ask you to pay attention. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister-General or the Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding today's agenda item, questions from Members and Members of Parliament were addressed by Dr. Uroš Chufer, Minister of Finance, mag. Stanko Stepišnik, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister for Health, and Mr Roman Jakič, whom I think I have just seen in the Chamber. But since 5:00, he'll be excused. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. At this point, we are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Mr Jakob Presečnik, Slovenian People's Party, will ask the President the first question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the National Assembly, as well as the general public, are given a number of new measures a day at the table, many of which are of great concern to families. Remember, raise VAT, property tax, reduce maternity benefits. Recently, however, we have also received a proposal for a new law on family policy in public debate, which also contains a number of new measures. Dear Madame President of the Government! The family, we certainly agree, is one of the greatest values and the fundamental cell of our society. We are all aware of how important it is for the continuation of our country's existence to increase the reputation and importance of a marriage that is the foundation of the family, to maintain, unless we already increase the number of weddings and retain the number of births at least at the current level. And now I'd like to hear from you: What steps do you intend to take in your government to promote these goals and to protect your two-parent family as much as possible? I want to know: How in the light of these, I believe, can you explain our common objectives to the Slovenian public or at least explain the latest announced measures in the field of family policy and other measures that have particularly affected young families among them? If we take a closer look at the proposed law on parental protection and family benefits, this provides new guidance on parental rights, which clearly leads to reducing the rights of mothers and, most of all, to promoting single - parent families. It is no wonder that this proposal of yours, or the proposal of the Slovenian Ministry in Slovenia, has sparked many controversy and excitement. Discussions and guesses are in order to guide parents, especially young people. Will this make it even less difficult for them to make decisions about marriage, to live apart, or even to divorce because of this new marriage? And last but not least, because of the financial benefits of a higher child supplement, children will be speculatively without formal fathers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you, too. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for this matter. I believe that you will recall how we changed family policy through the Public Finance Balance Act by about half past year, but in very little part you took into account our comments and managed to guarantee or preserve some rights with the amendments. No public debate, no middle of the night, no arguments. We have put the laws, as you said, into public debate, and we think it is. What you mentioned as the right of the mother or the right of the father would remind you that this is primarily the right of the child to be a mother or a father with him. However, I can tell you that absolute family policy in the Republic of Slovenia must be based on the inclusion of the entire population or on the orientation towards all families. More things this government does, more things this government will do. I can say that the preparation of the strategy is also our priority. So, in this mandate, we want to design family policy in a more modern way. For example, I will point out the Republic of Germany, which, among all European countries, is committed to the most money for family policy, and also in this country, unfortunately, is steadily falling. As has already been said, even there, says Germany, is confirmed by the fact that experts point out that the traditional view of the family in these times no longer endures. Politicians who want to stimulate a father to earn money and a mother to stay at home and care for the household and children are not successful in connection with the family’s purposes. The proposal for a new law on parental protection and family benefits is a proposal that would be the first step towards establishing a modern family policy. Otherwise, in my or our mandate, we have set ourselves a task, once again, I refer to the establishment of a starting point for a new family policy strategy. So far, no government has done this, not one that is declared a supporter of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The request to complete the answer is made by Jakob Presecnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your answer so far. Indeed, in these declaratory moves, I have already pointed out, we are thinking the same way. I, too, have agreed all these years, and I always try to stress this, with some positive discrimination, such as single parents' families, with an emphasis on real single parent families. I am always taking and taking part in the parliamentary group to stimulate classical family life, which certainly has a positive impact on fertility. But we know what demographic indicators we have in Slovenia for a long time, not only during this period, we certainly agree here. I would also like to point out that, even in your coalition agreement, as you called this agreement, you wrote about the family, I think two indents, one of which is "we will endeavour to achieve the broadest possible agreement on the necessary changes in family policy." And above all, here I ask myself: Will you stick to this agreement and take this public opinion into account, given that, for example, the Family Initiative has already pointed out the reduction of rights in the drafting of the law, which is directly contrary to the European Union Directive? I'm asking you to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you. In order to complete my response, I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u8	The public debate is the part where everyone can, it is said, not just one family initiative, comment. We will certainly study everything with the Ministry of Labour, and as I have said, this strategy will, I believe, be prepared in the broadest possible agreement of our society. In the end, let me just stress that I am aware that families and children do not have their political party, but they have my commitment and our commitment to be, not just me, but our government as a whole, their advocates.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr President has a request to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly at its next meeting hold a discussion on the answer to my question. I agree with that last thesis you gave me, for sure. I've pointed that out before. However, I would also like to stress this and why it seems important to discuss these matters. Perhaps even at this stage, when the law is put into public debate that, in the face of all the problems that we have in our financial society, we need to think carefully about all the measures that we put out, the government must, too, and I expect that we will also think thoroughly about this and will certainly open new fronts in the field of maternity care, in the area of parental protection, and so on, probably will not achieve the goal that you have set for it, and that we will cause a wave of problems with this new law, including the end of the day with employers, in planning the absence of employees and so on. I certainly believe that in these times of crisis, I am certainly stressing once again, there is no need to raise the dust at the expense of family matters and to unnecessarily excite citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by the Prime Minister, Mrs Ludmila Nova, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u12	Dear Madam President of the Government, distinguished President, colleague and colleague! Indeed, the issue of family policy is very topical, so we have signed up today to ask you this subject, asking the question. I will continue somewhere where my fellow Member has already begun. According to some statistics, Slovenia is the seventh oldest population, the country with the seven oldest population in the world. Of course, that's worrying. We are all aware that we have demographic problems, so this family policy is extremely sensitive. Before we were in the government, I was fighting for my family and for the best possible situation in the area of maternity, parental leave, and I am also struggling now. In particular, I would like to point out the provision which provides that fathers should also benefit from 30 days of paternity leave and then receive additional days. Of course, I am committed to strengthening my father's role in the family, which is very good, smart, but it seems to me that we need to be more liberal or modern here than you said, and it is right for parents to agree on for themselves how much time my father will use, how much Mother. But I certainly don't think it's good for mom to take that month off on account of her father having to use that vacation. Thus, some employers have expressed this fear that someone will be absent for 30 days and that it is difficult to replace. On the other hand, we also encourage breast-feeding, and some mothers have been breast-feeding for a very long time and why they should not maintain this option. In Novi Slovenija we advocate voluntary choice, for an agreement between mother and father. I will complete this question, which Member Presecnik has already pawned: In your opinion, will the planned measures in the area of family and social policy contribute to improving the demographic picture? Last but not least, it's very important. If we do not have children, if we do not have young workers, we will not be able to contribute to pensions as well as a number of other important issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm actually just going to add a little bit more to what I've already said. But I am glad that family policy is already being shown today, we are interested in everything, and it will not change, as it changed in the middle of the night last year. I agree, you've stood up, we've changed things together, but the trends at the beginning were different. And it's the right thing to talk about. Once again, the law has been put into public debate, things are still going to happen, we will certainly study all the comments thoroughly, and finally again, I hope, we will find the widest possible consensus to adopt this law and also to draw up a strategy that I mentioned earlier. As for maternity leave, once again, I stress that this is not a mother's right, not a father's right, but a child's right. And that's how I think it's supposed to be looked at. I also agree that the role of the father in raising the child is important, and this is also the envisaged change that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you. Mrs Ludmila Novak has a request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u16	Otherwise, we could also ask the Minister of Labour and Family, but I decided to ask you, because I don't know if her ideas are just from this red heart, as we have heard at the last end of the week, or whether you support it. In fact, mothers who had or have parents who have four children and more could now stay up to the tenth year of their youngest child at home, and so one of the parents got paid contributions, which I think is extremely good for raising children, because home-based parental protection seems most appropriate, and I think that is what research also shows. Now you're reducing this age to seven years. Even though we have good institutional protection, I think we must preserve this right for our parents. On the other hand, we are also reducing that allowance for non-participation in kindergarten. All praises to Slovenian kindergartens are usually very well equipped, good, education excellent, even municipalities have built many new kindergartens, but some parents decide to have their own children at home or in some other kind of protection and therefore I think it is right to get that supplement, because if a child is involved in kindergarten, the country actually has more costs with it than if it is not included. That's why it doesn't feel right to be reducing this, but we should let our parents have a free choice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? I give my word to the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you. Dear Member, I agree, every intervention in justice is painful. But if I recall the very debate on the fiscal rule, it was your party that insisted that 2015 was a crucial year when public finances needed to be consolidated. And this can be done in three ways: reducing rights, raising taxes or combining everything. And once again, the law is in public debate, we will look at it, but for the last time, I think I have said on the last question of the House that I will be very pleased with the concrete proposals where you are against raising taxes, where you are against interference with rights, and I will indeed be pleased with concrete proposals where and how we will then together for the better tomorrow, for the next generation to put our public finances in order. As for this law, which we are currently discussing, and the strategies, once again, my wish is absolutely that this law is adopted with the broadest possible support and equal strategy. I believe that together we are all able to find a solution that will be good and with which we will all be more or less satisfied.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. Ms Ludmila Novak has a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u20	I, too, demand a debate, and I think that this debate can even be shared. You said to save, of course we're for saving where it's reasonable and necessary. However, as I said before, we will not save anything with this measure. If there is a woman, a mother, or a father, if they have been at home for a long time, it is said that a job can be available to someone else and that can make one less unemployed. And if the child receives an allowance because he is not involved in kindergarten, it means that such child protection is cheaper than if this child is included in kindergarten because three quarters of this payment for kindergarten must be performed by the congregation. It's just another taxpayer's pocket. You're saying we're going to save it. I can't agree with that. This family policy is extremely important, and we will not be saving here, and in particular, given the demographic picture, there is a need for a debate on this subject, so I would like to ask that we hold a debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July, as part of the vote. Thirdly, the question will be raised by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! For 100 days, the government of Alenka Bratušek is certainly an opportunity to look at the work done in these hundreds of days and, last but not least, at the lines outlined, which the government has taken in particular in the light of the signed agreement on the participation of four coalition parties. It is also up to this direction to act and take action in the future. The key problem of this country is certainly the financial and economic crisis, and I will focus in particular on the priorities that you have set out in this agreement in this area. Let's take a look at it one at a time. First of all, you wrote that you will strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment of the economy. Raise taxes, value added tax, property tax forecast, raise cadastral income, prevent further tax evasion from legal persons' incomes, increase the tax margin. You yourself have estimated that this is not encouraging for economic activity to hinder economic activity. This is about measures that are against your efforts. At the same time, you are reducing the volume of investments, including the use of European funds, which is once again a step in the opposite direction. We are not only convinced about this in the opposition, but this opinion is shared by the economic profession. Let's look at the second target. You have written down that you will reduce the budget deficit with an emphasis on rationalising public spending, in particular lowering wages. If we look at the State budget's balance sheet, you are increasing the deficit by half a billion euros, and at the same time you are maintaining or even raising current expenditure and also current transfers where the wage item is concerned. It is noted in the data of the Statistical Office that the arrival of your government has led to an increase in the number of public officials and that there are no further declines in employment in the public sector. Not only in the opposition's view that this is diametrically contrary to your priority, we were negatively surprised that yesterday it was also placed on the agenda of the European institutions or the European Commission's issue of Slovenia, in particular the management of expenditure and thus the stabilisation of public finances. If we add a commitment to depoliticizing the workforce, I ask you: Has the depoliticization of staffing changed the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, where you removed recognized international experts and put in the relative ignorance of professors? Dear President: Why don't you make your own arrangements? Why do you not take measures leading to the four coalition parties' cooperation arrangements?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Vizjak, and I am pleased that we will be able to talk today or to answer substantive questions and again my attitude towards plagiarism is not a topic. Depoliticization of personnel. In fact, if we looked at it, Alenka Bratusek and the government had nothing to do with this frame-up. Government like government. If we had looked at the CVs of these gentlemen and ladies, we would have found that two of them have been working abroad for a long time, and I think we simply refer to them as experts from abroad. That's the first thing. Second thing. Measures to be taken. I'm the first to say that unfortunately we had to choose between the worst possible options. And according to our assessment, the one we've chosen is the least bad. Even for the economy. And a few things, if you look at the budget balance, you find it is also designed to promote the economy. Less direct, grants and more incentives to be returned but more favourable than they are on the market. I think about €700 of such new schemes will be implemented through the Slovenian exporting company or the bank. Now it's about public finances. You know very well because you know so much that the budget we received as a budget was completely, completely unrealistic. But we can do it in a row. $400 million and a few million were missing on income, $122 million was missing on expenditure for interest and $140 million for pension money. Despite the fact that you and the pensioners agreed that this year it was minimal, but even the valorisation took place, there was a shortage of 140 million at the ZPIZ. You mentioned the salaries, Mr Vizjak, well remember the constitutional decision, where unfortunately, due to your handball moves, we had to return the regress for last year. That's why, and that's why, the funds on the payroll are increasing. That's the only reason. And if planning were at least realistic on the expenditure side, if not already on the revenue side, the budget deficit in this year could be significantly lower. And one more thing. If you did not hold on so tightly and firmly to the authorities even when you saw that your government was already falling apart, there was virtually nothing done in this year. If what we agreed on on the salaries were not only valid from June 1st, but throughout the year, we would have had more savings of 60 million. If we do not have to return the regression that we had to, because if the court, even constitutionally, imposes something, I think it is right to do so, 50 million Euros should be reduced. If an increase in VAT, as you would have done in line with the law you have passed, were introduced a little later, we would have done it a little earlier, this would have been 150 million euros already this year. And all of this means 260 million or 0.74% of GDP, which means that the budget deficit would not be 4.4, but 3.6. However, if the revenue side were to be planned or realised as planned, the budget deficit could fall below 3% of GDP this year. But unfortunately all these assumptions that I have just said are not true.Ppa not because of Alenka Bratušek or my government, but because it was unrealistic planning, in the smaller part this bad planning is also due to worse economic activities and forecasts, but you will well remember that when you were sitting here as minister, we warned you that what you are planning for the ZPIZ is wrong and that the pension allowance of this savings will not bring you back. And you claimed and insisted that it was. Unfortunately, the number, the number of pensioners, pensions, the necessary payments show otherwise. And I believe that we all know together that this is something to be paid for.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u26	Dear Prime Minister of the Government. We are in the middle of the year, the budget is the goal and measures must be taken to achieve this objective. You've given up on the target and now you're talking in the middle of the year that it's unrealisticly planned. Make it real, but you've given up on these measures. On the contrary, you are hiring new and new people in the public sector and are moving away from this goal of consolidating public finances, and you are very comfortable in blaming the previous government, half of which is also in your government, and here you are looking for an excuse to deviate from your own commitment and the agreement of your coalition parties. Let's move on. What else have you committed to this cooperation agreement? I'm going to say some very tangible things. You have indicated that within three months of the show, this is already over, you will accept system adjustments to reduce electricity prices for industry by 10%. Dearly beloved, the price of electricity for industry has increased due to VAT hikes but has not decreased by 10%. The deadline's over. Why didn't you do it? You wrote that within four months of the performance, you will sign a concession agreement for Central Sava. He's been practically here for four months, not a ghost hearing about any deal for Central Savo. These are very specific, the only concrete commitments made in your agreement. And keep looking. You've committed yourself to speeding up infrastructure projects. We are witnessing the withdrawal of the State Spatial Plan for the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant only because the ministries are not acting in a coordinated manner, despite the clear measures taken by the previous government that this should be adopted in June, as this VAT has not happened and will not be for long. So, Prime Minister, you haven't answered my question before why you don't carry out your own commitments under the agreement on the participation of four political parties. Please, it is your responsibility to lead this country and not all the causes of its own failures and its own disrespect for these commitments to throw up on the previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u28	Yes, the honourable Member, what was given in six months, we have done. And no one said that the balance that's ahead of you is unrealistic. The budget adopted was unrealistic, it was my words. And once again, if these measures were to apply all year long, unfortunately no, the effect would be significantly higher and the deficit would be significantly lower. It's my only message. However, as regards the fulfilment of the commitments we have signed, I think that this is a matter for the parties involved. But I can tell you that we are still working on lowering electricity prices. It's really three months, but even if there's a month's delay, we'll be happy to make it happen. As far as the concession contract is concerned, you obviously have better connections in energy than I do, because I'm told that it's being prepared and should be ready soon. Four months, and it's not over. If he's been preparing for five years, a respected former minister, you might as well have signed it in your term of office. So it's done. We are absolutely aware of what we have written in this agreement. If there's a month's delay, I believe that coalition partners will survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. The request for a debate shall be made by a mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u30	Dear President, honourable President of Parliament, of course we have followed with great interest the signed agreement on the participation of the four political parties, because in fact the previous government has been demolished with an ambition to create something more effective, better. But here I have, I have listed six cases today, and I could probably count them even more, but six of them that can already be caught, which makes it very clear that this agreement is not being implemented. On the contrary. Some of the measures lead in a different direction. The fact is that raising taxes, reducing investment is a negative trend for the economy. This is said to further stifle the economy, which will result in less tax collection, resulting in fewer jobs and deepening the recession in that country. This will, of course, contribute to additional problems in the revenue of the budget and the consolidation of public finances. These are the directions that are alarming. On the other hand, we have serious, most serious warnings from Brussels that we do not manage excessive deficits in this country. What happened yesterday is a signal that is respected by the President, and it is clear that this signal means that the European institutions are not satisfied with this budget balance and that a new budget balance will be needed where you need to, you don't want to, also cut into current expenditure, take unpopular measures and in some way put or at least put public finances in some direction of further consolidation. When we are also talking about very concrete commitments, all the inefficiency of coordination between different sectors is shown, so I also mentioned some very banal and plastic ones, such as the promise of a 10% reduction in electricity prices for industry. For example, you said you'd do it at the expense of a contribution to renewable resources. Renewable resources in industry represent only 9%. I don't know if you're going to burden the entire industry with these contributions. It's also a bunch of unrealistic promises you made at your performance, and it's only right for the opposition to warn you of that. The debate on the response of the President of the Government, which I propose in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will also aim at speeding up some of the things that are important to this country. In addition to all of this, it is also important for this country to launch infrastructure projects for which, in fact, they do not have a financial resource in the budget, they are financed by the economy, such as the construction of power plants on the lower Sava, as well as by the medium Savi. Dear President of the Government, I believe that it is also in your interest to discuss your answer in this House, because this discussion can contribute to greater efficiency rather than further negligence in the implementation of this agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. The fourth question will be raised by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Positive Slovenia, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u32	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, president. After your meeting with representatives of youth and student organisations, you have announced that young people are the priority of this government, because these are the solutions of our society. Your efforts to increase the involvement of young people in the preparation and adoption of strategic documents are undoubtedly more proof that the Government has taken youth issues seriously in several areas. Regardless of the slightly lower unemployment rate shown last month, it is undeniable that in Slovenia the rate of unemployment among young people has grown the fastest in Europe. There are currently 23% of registered unemployed among young people in Slovenia, which means 27 000 628 people. One major problem is those between the ages of 25 and 29, which is why, of course, they fail to obtain jobs and, as appropriate, according to some data, the number of unemployed surveyed increases markedly. This is an even higher level of registered unemployment among university-graduated women, and is expected to increase to 300% in recent years. It is therefore so much more commendable that the Government has already introduced a law on labour market intervention and parental protection in accordance with your predictions in the parliamentary procedure, which proposes temporary incentives for the employment of young people unemployed by the age of 30. I ask you, Madam President: What are the expected effects of the proposed measure? How many young people are supposed to be able to get a job? I ask in particular those who are supposed to work indefinitely, because in Slovenia there is a dual system in the labour market that practically prevents young people from working. Slovenia is also at the summit of the European Union, where the focus was on measures to promote economic growth and reduce youth unemployment, and has managed to obtain €9 million from the European Fund for Eastern Slovenia, which was not eligible after the initial proposal for funding. Member States will thus speed up the preparation of Youth Guarantee schemes. But I'm asking you: What will be the next steps in this area? What decline in the unemployment trend do you expect in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Once again, young people are certainly our priority. And what I've said many times, no problem at all, but a larger solution and our future. As you have already mentioned, the law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection also includes a measure to encourage youth employment. I hope that in this National Assembly, despite the great controversy on the Committee and in some way the opposition will receive support and we will be able to implement this measure. It is expected to be implemented from 1 November to the end of 2014. We estimate that an additional 5,000 young people would be employed at the expense of this measure. Together, this would mean the employment of 25,000 young people in this period; last year, the employment of the young was 20,000, which is an additional 5,000, and out of these 25,000 were supposed to be 7,000 employees for an indefinite period of time. The fact is that it is new jobs, which does not mean that the budget is being burdened, but by paying the income and social security contributions paid in that second part, it would be more public income because, once again, it is new jobs. However, some of the payments from the budget are expected to be reduced, this is a cash refund for young unemployed people, there is supposed to be a savings of around €3 million, and a reduction in the payment of monetary social assistance. There is also supposed to be a little less than a million euros saved here. In view of the situation described, this law provides for a temporary incentive for the employment of young unemployed persons in order to contribute to their achievement as quickly as possible and as stable as possible. I am pleased that you mentioned that we have managed to negotiate on the European Council and to choose an exception only for Slovenia. Although I would be more pleased if this exception were not necessary and we would not have problems in our country with the employment of young people, but we have managed to overcome it and get some €9 to 10 million on this account. Of course, all the details and the very carefully worked-out scheme must be prepared, even at European level, all the details are not yet known. We're aware that there's not much time, so we started action immediately, if that's what I can call it. However, in preparing and implementing this scheme, which is called the Youth Guarantee, it is extremely important to integrate labour, economic and educational resources due to the specific characteristics of young people. In particular, I would like to point out that in the proposal for a multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which will be the basis for European funding, the focus on achieving the objective of reducing the unemployment rate of young people is substantively focused. And this once again shows that young people are true and will remain the priorities of our government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. We have thus concluded with the questions raised by the President of the Government and thank her for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 15th meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, will answer three questions. First, she will answer Janez Ribič's question regarding the arrangements for the long-term care of the elderly in Slovenia. Here you go. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u36	Your Honor! Mr Member, thank you for asking. I'm sorry I wasn't here before. I was abroad. I agree with you that the Long-Terms Act is necessary. There are several reasons for the adoption of the law, especially the ageing of the population and the growing need for it. It is needed because we need to improve the social security of those who need the help of another person. In today's system too, the differences between rights and access to supply are too great. The reason for this is also the lack of consistency between the rules and areas dealing with long-term care and the improved availability of long-term care to all beneficiaries and, last but not least, the rationalisation of the costs that arise today. Unfortunately, the reason that the law has not been adopted by several different governments is the same, these are in particular financial reasons. We estimate that some 50 million euros would be needed to implement the law. We will seek a solution in the direction of an appropriate health insurance scheme, which would also regulate long-term care insurance as regulated in many other European countries. We have already had an interview with the Minister of Health on this subject, and our ministry will be preparing by the end of the year a bill to be discussed in the government this year. In the context of the 2013 National Reform Programme, the European Commission has also made one of the recommendations regarding the realisation of long-term care, which makes it necessary for Slovenia to introduce a system that will ensure long-term financial stability in this area. Also in the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme adopted by Parliament this April, a number of words and, in particular, objectives related to long-term care are addressed. These are all the facts that point us out that we must prepare this law, and I also want your support. You will be accepting the law in the National Assembly, because it seems to me that we cannot afford it any longer, as it is in the past few mandates, that we do not resolve it because of financial matters. It will have to be realistic, and the goal is to put in place, within the financial capacity we have, a system that will allow a different form of insurance for long-term care and perhaps not immediately, perhaps at a medium time, to provide different supplies, different financial resources and, above all, to allow people to stay at home for longer periods of time and to provide services at home with these resources, with these resources to be provided within this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thanks for the answers. Mr Ribič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers, welcome! I repeat, the elderly are even more vulnerable in the crisis. In doing so, we also face the problem that we do not have systemicly regulated long-term care, as you stated, and that we do not have equal access to such assistance. Home care is too underdeveloped. This should be a priority form of long-term care, since it is the most humane and at the same time cheaper and more efficient than institutional accommodation. At present, long-term care is regulated by a number of rules that are not harmonised between themselves. That's why I'm asking you: How and when will you harmonize the rules for a more efficient implementation of long-term care covering a large area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. The Minister shall have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr Ribič, for the further question. As I said, in particular, it is necessary to ensure that the resources already in the system for long-term care, some of them in the healthcare system, something in the pension system and also in the system where people pay care in nursing homes, are brought together and regulated by law to regulate care and care that will relate to long-term care and care. This year, this is foreseen. The adoption of this law is crucial mainly because of what I have mentioned to encourage home care. We want to expand, as is the case with the national social protection development programme, that there is more in community treatment than in institutional care, which is cheaper for the country. Above all, it is important to offer people where they prefer, i.e. in their home environment, the possibility of living as long as possible and then moving to institutional care the last of the possible solutions, not the first, as is now too often. It is also important to regulate the area of long-term care due to the possibility of new employment. If we look at what is the growing segment of people employed in other European countries, Slovenia has quite a few opportunities to employ people. I would also like to link these two fields with the promotion of social entrepreneurship and thus create new jobs. However, it is essential to adopt a law, where it is also necessary within the Government, particularly among the various departments, to agree in some way, but I say, the commitment is also on the international side, particularly the European Commission and the National Reform Programme, to do so this year and I believe that the Government will consider such a bill this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you. The next question to which Dr. Anja Kopač will answer the dark is the question of Andrej Couch regarding the Youth Guarantee Programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you for asking. Initially, I would just like to explain that there are two separate things in the EU, a guarantee for young people and an initiative for young people. The Youth Guarantee was adopted in the form of a recommendation from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the European Council and to the Committee of the Regions in December 2012. Furthermore, the end of February was confirmed at [[Incomprehensible]] In March 2013, the European Council called on Member States to implement, while at the same time adopting the Youth Guarantee initiative for young people, Use Employment Initiative to ensure that areas of countries with high levels of youth unemployment receive additional funding to implement these Youth Guarantees. In February 2013, a limit was set for these funds, a youth unemployment rate of more than 25%. Regrettably, Slovenia was not justified then and believe that at different levels, we have been working all over different levels in these months, so that we can be very happy today, that we have classified Slovenia as an exception one week ago and Slovenia will also be entitled to funding from the Youth Initiative, which is now €8 billion. We expect about €10 million to be allocated to the eastern region. It is our task, however, to ensure that, within the framework of the Youth Guarantee, Member States must ensure that young unemployed persons are offered employment, education or apprenticeship within four months to implement this commitment from the Youth Guarantees. How are we gonna do that? We need to prepare implementation plans. We are already doing everything in connection with the Employment Office and also with the young people we have invited to participate in order to prepare additional programmes for them, where we will fully regulate the area of youth unemployment. Of course, 10 million is absolutely not enough money for something like this. Also within the active employment policy in the new financial perspective, young people are a priority, and we will also be earmarked for this within the European Social Fund. In short, young people are a priority, as the President has stressed, and it is also important to adopt the legal basis for employers, those who will hire unemployed young people, to be able not to pay the employer's contributions, because this is an essential incentive for the employment of young people. Given that, unfortunately, we were the worst in this area in Slovenia in 2012, so we are a Member State within the European Union, where we reached the highest unemployment figures in 2012, our task in 2013 and 2014 is to change and reverse these trends.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Andrej Chuš has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for your explanation in the introduction. As regards these funds from Brussels, given the availability of €6 billion and the worrying trends in the Republic of Slovenia over the last period, given that youth unemployment has increased most among the European Union members in the last year, who would expect to be able to negotiate a million additional funds. There was also much talk about numbers as to how many jobs would be made possible through this. If I recall correctly, 22 million European funds have been used for the First Challenge project for approximately 3 000 jobs, so that mathematics is not my best shot here. On the other hand, I would very much like to draw attention to other measures that will improve the employment of young people. The fact that we receive subsidies is, of course, a very good thing, but we must be aware that subsidies are limited, they are used quickly, and we miss some measures at systemic level. Every week, the government of Alenka Bratušek brings a new tax, the purchasing power of the population is shrinking, the economy is shrinking, and everyone who works is feeling more burdensome. It is necessary to provide young people with better conditions for entrepreneurship and innovation, and I am therefore interested in: When will measures take place at systemic level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Dr. Anya Digač Dark has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I find it difficult to agree that 10 million is too small to compare that, after the March decisions, when your party's president was still the chairman of Slovenia, Slovenia was not entitled to these funds and now to minimize that we have received 10 million and say that it is too little, Slovenia was certainly justified by the compromise we have proposed, and the fact is that the Spanish regions, the Portuguese regions and regions of some other European countries are even more likely to face the problem of youth unemployment than we are. Their numbers are above 60%, and this is the allocation criterion. I said it was an assessment of how much Slovenia will receive from these funds of eight billion. The final calculations are not yet clear, nor is the division. At this point we are eligible and will be able to benefit from these funds from 1 January. So we might want to stress in matters that are good for young people that it is good for all of us to agree that this is good, not to look for hair where it may not be necessary. As far as active employment policy is concerned, I have also absolutely stressed in the first part of the response that 10 million is not the money that could solve our problem, additional money is spent within the active employment policy around 90 million a year. For example, last year, last year, the lowest drawback under the active employment policy of the ESF, i.e. European funds, is therefore probably 6% more jobs among young people than in the same period last year, when the actual budget was closed and there were also no active employment programmes and measures implemented. That's why the realisation was so low, only 40 million in last year's year. This fact has also given us a recommendation from the European Commission in this area. We are therefore working hard to ensure that the existing active employment policy measures draw as much money as possible and redistribute funds, so we have also redistributed funds for public works, where young people are also entitled to these funds. At the same time, we are funding the project Enterprise in the world of entrepreneurship, the programme Pum and other programmes. In the following year, new programmes will be set up in the new financial perspective, especially in cooperation with young people, where things can run differently. But there are also systemic solutions, the law on scholarships introduces scholarships for deficient professions. However, things are also going on at the systemic level, and we will also need to consider the dual system and prepare certain educational projects. This is an area that must include all the departments or more than just the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you. The next question to which Dr. Anja Kopač Dark will answer is the question of mag. Majde Potrat on the ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Violence and the Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Here you go. You have the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you. Violence against women and domestic violence are unfortunately among the most common violations of human rights today. With regard to the ongoing ratification of the Convention in the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to point out that the ratification process has been coordinated by the former Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for equal opportunities, after transferring the operation of this Office to the Ministry of Labour, and this process is now coordinated by the competent service of the Ministry. As we are aware of the importance of an effective fight against all forms of violence against women and domestic violence, we will do our utmost to bring this Convention into force as soon as possible. There are still some technical problems at this time, and the Ministry of Justice must carry out an additional analysis of the compliance of national legislation with the Convention at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice. Once we have prepared this, it will be seen if it needs any changes to national legislation and if it turns out that these are necessary and that the function of reducing the potential for violence against women and within the family is certainly to approach these changes in national legislation. I believe that it is possible to accept this after one time period in the next half of the year in order to implement these ratification procedures in the second half of this year. The ratification process itself is out of our jurisdiction. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this, but I believe that together, if there are no major differences between national legislation and the Convention, we can do this this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! When I asked this question, of course, I was aware that a number of things were adopted in the legislation of the State of Slovenia, which is part of a very large and long-standing Council of Europe campaign on the prevention of violence. In the first place, violence against women, and then domestic violence. I cannot help but overlook or overlook the fact that some domestic experiences in this regard are quite interesting. When we discussed the prohibition of physical punishment of children or the debate on family law, part of these discussions could be linked to the problems that you have discussed, as indicated in today's two issues where the problem actually lies in Slovenia. Article 3 of the Convention defines the family. The rejected family code, which provided a modern definition of the family, would allow for a direct transfer. Now we have a family with a very traditional definition and the question is what will happen to these things below. I would like to know what opponents or advocates of traditional definition will say when this definition is written in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. I certainly hope that these technical problems will be overcome because the data on how much violence it is, and this violence of the worst kind, which also ends in murder, is a signal that the problem with all seriousness and ratification, which is indeed decided at the end of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, needs to be taken seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you. In times of crisis, however, the problem of violence is even more problematic. I've done quite a few visits to safe houses, and the stories we hear there are actually shocking, if not only what is recorded in the black chronicle. So we certainly need to make it clear by law that it is only violence against women within the family — and violence of any form — that we are talking only at the moment about violence against women and within the family, that it is unacceptable, as a society, that we must show zero tolerance for violence and also the issue of criminal standards in this regard. It does not seem acceptable to me that a woman is always withdrawing from the place where violence takes place, to safe houses, and that those who commit violence are not properly punished. This is certainly an important priority, so, as I said before, we will review coordination and propose amendments to national legislation, if necessary. As far as the definition of a family is concerned, it's a field where there's always some ideological separation that I don't think is necessary. The family is a community of two, where they care for the child, they love each other and how they see each other, and that there must be only a traditional family, if possible for a married couple, I feel that today politics cannot focus on the right to just such a form of family, because then too many other forms of family, if I say so, would be excluded from its field of regulation. And this, of course, is not acceptable to modern politics of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. With this, the minister answered three questions raised at the 15th meeting of the assembly. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. On the other hand, Dejan Židan will answer the following two questions, which were also raised at the 15th meeting of the congregation. First of all, the answer to Mr Zvonk Lah's question regarding cohesion projects will be: Here you go, Mr. Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u54	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Zvonko Lah, who asked you a question, say good-bye! Environmental cohesion is available in the period 2007-2013 for water supply projects, sewage treatment projects, waste management centres EUR 545 million of European money. And when we put in Slovenia's share, it's 640 million euros for urgently needed investments. At the beginning of cohesion, all the money was distributed to most municipalities with decisions of 102 %. Last year, the government found that projects were taking place too slowly, that there was a serious risk that money would not be usefully used, and, I think, in November with an additional right of spending, that is 180 million euros, gave some other municipalities the opportunity to run. But I have to say, the situation has changed significantly this year. Most of the municipalities that have been waiting for projects are very active this year. At the moment, there are so many public calls that we are not even dealing with complaints that have blocked construction in the past years, but we are not even entirely sure whether there will be at least one bidder in individual calls. Up to this point, it has been signed, as regards the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which is the final co-financing phase, from the basic consumption of €310 million of decisions on the allocation of funds or on co-financing, through overcommitment an additional 37 million. However, we expect that in the next two, three months, maybe four other decisions will be signed. So it is already known that when we add up the basic right of consumption and overcommitment, we will have more projects available than will be real money. And then it will probably be projects that will go into the waiting line for the next cohesion. At the same time, I would urge the congregations to work well on these projects, since there will be no new window of opportunity. However, cohesion for the environment is not yet established for the period 2014-2020. It is important to know, however, that cohesion money as a whole is slightly less than in the first period. If it was 4.2 billion at the time, it is now for the entire cohesion of 3.33 or if we look at current prices, if we look at it as normal for 2011 even 2.9. At this point, the municipalities are already announcing a new billion projects needed. And when I say a billion, this billion does not include this 700 and 600 to 700 million euro of emergency investment, which is important that these 62 areas of Slovenia, which are more threatened by the floods, are insured for this amount. Negotiations are now under way or we are continuing negotiations that the previous government has started with the European Investment Bank. We have some experience, too. In the invitation to tender at this time, we find that we have probably come already beyond the capacity of the Slovenian construction operation. You know the assessment that at this point the open tenders are almost half a billion and are simply on individual tenders, not even more Slovenian bidders, but also from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Lah has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I didn't get the desired answer I put in. Because 30. 6. The deadline for these projects to have selected contractors is those basic projects which were, once they have already been approved, and how much money will be left for the backup projects. These reserve projects, as you yourself said, are worth about €180 million. For all these projects, municipalities had to prepare project documentation, obtain a building permit, that is to say pay service, buy land and then pay for all investment documentation, including consultants, to prepare tenders. Contractors who applied for these offers or made offers also had to pay guarantees that were not cheap and will now be able to raise these projects. A few months ago, it was said that these spare projects should have been financed, too, because some of the projects already allocated to them were so "stuck" that they would not be implemented. Now, I do not think that it is fair for these municipalities, which have prepared all the documentation, to have out-of-office tenders, to have received tenders, and finally to think that it is irresponsible of the government or management authorities when they reject these projects and cause great harm to the municipalities. Because all these municipalities had to have guaranteed funds in the budget, budgets adopted for two years, and now we are months in July when these funds will remain at the end of the year because they cannot be spent this year and I think [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. Mr President rightly noted that there is a possibility that all projects, including some in the Ready to Go group from the overcommittee, will not be realized because the municipalities that received the first right of consumption and have issued decisions, what I said, were simply better at leading projects than was expected last year. The Ministry was in charge and we gave up 1. 7. As probably other ministries, we have submitted to the Ministry of Economy, which is the carrier of this cohesion in Slovenia, after all projects that are recipients of the 2006 Decision, 2007, how far away is it, as far as our data are concerned with the situation on individual projects. And if I were to make a quick assessment at this point, based on the data from 1. 7. There is a surplus of €60 million of projects currently being seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Lah has a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u60	I think it is only necessary to decide as soon as possible and to tell which projects. It was expected that prices would be so low as to save around 20% of these funds in the evaluation of project design price projects that they would then be included in the selection of the contractor, so that the reserve projects would not remain unused. 30. 6. – the deadline that has been set – is over and I think that when selected contractors, the value of all these projects is also known, and is deleted and it is seen whether any money is left or not and that there are backup projects in place as soon as possible, those that are ready. Because I'm surprised there's no money left. Normally, if there are no more bidders, prices are also high if there is one bidder, there is also a questionable price, and I think this is what happened that the prices of the tenderers remained higher than they would have if competition were with the operators. I expected that you would just give a list or that municipalities would get an answer as soon as possible, which projects go in, if any projects go in, because the calls are now outside, so that the costs will not continue to increase, because probably many of these projects will not go into effect, although at least 10% of the total costs have already been used for it. This is for project documentation, land purchases and everything. This is not fair, so I would ask you to give this information as soon as possible, and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we also discuss this in Parliament, because it is a substantial resource that can remain so in Europe, and it is a great damage that is being done to those municipalities that are solely due to these calls, because of the promised money that will not now, the projects will continue and the damage will be done to the municipalities. I therefore demand that we vote on the debate being held in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. Next question to be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mags. Dejan Židan is Mr Borut Ambrožić's question regarding the proposed expansion of the list of new species of birds among the protected species. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr President, once again, and also Mr Ambassador Mag. Borut Ambrožič, thank you for asking. Here I would like to say that the Ministry has not even prepared a draft regulation setting out the game and its hunting seasons, but in recent periods, even in recent years, there have been a lot of initiatives to amend and supplement the specific regulation. The Ministry has so far received the following proposals: the Hunting Unions of Slovenia, the Institute for Forests, ERICO Velenje, the Institute for Environmental Research, the Society for the Observation and Study of Birds of Slovenia, the Association for the Conservation of the Natural Heritage of Slovenia, the Fisheries Union of Slovenia, the Slovenian Federation for Sokolarity and the Protection of Birds Eating, the Society for the Protection of Animals of Ljubljana, the Society for the Liberation of Animals and Their Rights, the VVVF Programme, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature and the Vegan Initiative. The Ministry does not even have a draft of any change, but we have undertaken to convene a meeting this month with all those who have proposed or propose an amendment to the regulation. You also ask me about my personal opinion on how to protect animals, birds that are at risk, which are not or disappearing in Slovenia. You know that I am the Minister for the Protection of Natural Resources and I also have such an attitude towards that regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Ambrožič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you also for the correct answer, Mr. Minister. That's what I expected. With this question, I just wanted to point out the importance or some excitement that has been caused by proposals, particularly by the Hunting Union and some related institutions, which somehow advocate the position of hunting tourism at the expense of recorded or identified already endangered, in some cases also critical, species of birds. That is why I am confident that he will prevail over reason and that together we will protect the natural wealth that we have on our soil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add? It was all said. Thank you. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members, the first round of questions at today's 16th session. Mr Zvonko Černač, Slovenian Democratic Party, has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer, who is absent today. You have the floor, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! At the end of June, 26 June, a public debate was concluded on the law governing the property tax following a new regulation. With regard to this law, the Minister of Finance, in one of the public statements, when this law was transmitted to this public hearing, said that the burdens of the new law after combining the three different real estate burdens so far were approximately at the level of existing burdens, which meant approximately EUR 190 million per year, as collected from the NUSZ, the existing real estate taxes and compensations for the use of forest roads. The law in public debate has shown that these burdens will be significantly higher, almost three times the current burden. And the first calculations show that the burden on the real estate tax would reach almost EUR 500 million per year if it were adopted in such a form as was presented to the public debate. What does this mean for individual users? A four-member family that has so far paid €79 for the use of building land annually should pay €260. One farm that has paid €320 so far should pay €2 000 or nearly eight times as much as the new one. The primary school in a medium-sized place, which has not paid any compensation so far, would pay EUR 14 000 of this real estate tax for a new one. Who would pay less? However, those who generate some extraordinary profits and income would pay less. For example, instead of the current 150,000 euros per year, a larger shopping centre would pay only 50,000 euros or three times less. A smaller shopping centre would pay instead of EUR 25 000 after the new EUR 7 000. This tax is inappropriate for further consideration. The law, as established, is also inappropriate for further consideration. In 2010, the law was already submitted for consideration, where the basic burdens were five times lower than in this bill, not 0.15, but 0.03 was the basic burden. And just as the present law is conceived, it can be fixed. In addition, this law is not harmonised within the government. On the one hand, Minister Stepišnik supports the law, Minister Židan does not support it and says he is inadequate. I think that such important things should be discussed first in the government line before the public is irritated by this. For this reason, I propose that the Minister withdraw this law and write a new law. I also ask him: Why did the public cheat on this real estate tax months ago when he said that the burdens under the new law would remain at the current level, and now we see that this burden is almost three times higher? I suggest that the Minister responds orally to my next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Janez Ribič, Slovenian People's Party, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary of Agriculture, Minister, Ministers! In recent times, there has been an increasing awareness of the consumption of locally grown food, especially fruit and vegetables. I'm glad you've been defending this all along, Mr. Secretary. Slovenian consumers are also increasingly aware of the importance of healthy, organically grown vegetables, which are being sold mostly by defenders in Slovenian markets. Consumers are willing to pay more for this because marketers market it as organic fruit and vegetables of local origin, which is also healthier for the consumer. Therefore, Friday's contribution, prepared by national broadcasters and seen in the evening's Turnout, which clearly shows the frauds of some fruit and vegetables sellers in Slovenian markets buying their crops at trade fairs in Trieste or in other countries, most in the countries of the formerly common country, Macedonia, Bosnia and so forth, is shocking. I am sure that a number of consumers have lost their words when looking at the unconvincing answers of some vendors who came to the market fair at four in the morning to look at or buy vegetables for a home party. The problem is very serious, since the act is not only a matter of fraud and fraud, the main issue is the safety of the Slovenian consumer, the consumer who trusts the seller to sell him organically produced fruit or vegetables from the surrounding fields or orchards. In addition, such behaviour also does a great deal of damage to all fair farmers or producers of fruit and vegetables, as well as to all others who actually sell Slovenian fruit and vegetables in local markets. Dear Minister, in your first response, you have strongly condemned the scoundrels who are unfairly deceiving consumers. Nevertheless, this disclosure raises a number of questions that require quick and clear answers and, of course, decisive action. That's why I'm asking you: How do safe food inspectors control the sale of crops in Slovenian markets? What specific solutions are provided for in the draft Agriculture Law to prevent fraud in relation to the sale of crops in markets? How can you ensure better traceability over crops or strengthen control over their origin? What do you advise Slovenian consumers who want to buy fruit and vegetables in markets in Slovenia, which are undoubtedly authentic Slovenian? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr Member, for the very current question. I'd like to say here in the beginning that surveillance is ongoing. Just for example, in 2012, when the competent inspection carried out one hundred and twenty-six inspections on markets, on the sale of fruit and vegetables, and that's when we started to notice that the number of violations is increasing. This has also started to be observed this year, let's say only in the month of June it was at regular work, this is the work that takes place during the week, then it was even tighter control, this is what takes place during the holidays, weekends, when only in June we had tighter control of eight markets and we found quite a mistake in stating origin. This was also one of the reasons why we are amending the Agriculture Act, which we are also amending because of the simplification of agricultural policy and some other important things for Slovenian farmers and farmers. In the present draft law, we intended to do two things, things that were asked of us by the inspectors, who are overseeing that they will be able to exercise control more easily and more effectively. Firstly, we have been warned that penalties are too low and do not have dissuasive functions and they have proposed that we double the penalties and introduce a new register of food business operators, which means in practice to allow such a way to sell a farmer without registration without difficulty at home, since the consumer comes and is convinced that he is from his farm as soon as he appears on the market, and must be registered in a special register, allowing control of the step back to his home. After this open affair, which has done the Slovenian food space as a whole a great deal of damage, we want to get the culprits and we want to punish them by Friday, as promised to give the draft law to the public debate on agriculture, then we will be able to supplement the law further, and we will check some options. At this point, it is very important to discuss whether the time has come for us to ban double activity on the farm. And that's exactly the kind of activity that these rascals use the most. It is that a farmer is a farmer, but when he shows up on the market, some locusts — and here the biggest infringement is detected — are simultaneously registered as independent entrepreneurs. This allows them to sell something else in essence, in addition to selling that they can sell from farms. And here the greatest irregularities have been identified. It is not wrong if someone is just a drug dealer, it is wrong if he does not say it and if the right thing does not mark it, so that we have a choice for the consumer. Let me also tell you why it is so important that we really deal with this area well. In Slovenia, we bring in one billion 850 million foreign food and foreign raw materials for food at an unnecessary annual level from abroad. No need. At least half of this could be produced in Slovenia, with no need for 5% of the Slovenian gross domestic product to be granted to foreigners. That is why we started an awareness-raising campaign a week ago to inform consumers in Slovenia that it is in their interest to intervene in Slovenia, i.e. on their own food, because they help themselves in particular. That's why this affair that has now arisen must be an affair where a breakthrough occurs. We must make the law so that control will be further effective and here you, honourable Members and Members, please also for support. In fact, more effective control means higher penalties and greater traceability also means a little more administration. And whenever we weigh how life can be easier, we always try to move away from punishment, we try to move away from administration, but please allow us to drive a better traceability on this particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Ribič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. I believe that things will be cleared up and that there will be real measures that will at least partially appease Slovenian consumers. People are seriously concerned about the work of inspection bodies, instead of the obvious work done by journalists. I agree with you that legislation needs to be refreshed, as it is virtually impossible to prove fraud in stating the origin of agricultural crops in the current regulation. I am afraid that the amendment of the agricultural law will probably not be enough and another provision will probably have to be amended. As a rule, vegetables and fruit go to market and consumers without entering registered establishments, such as food of food origin, and consequently control is worse. I believe that control would be truly effective only by establishing a register or cadastral culture that the farmer actually cultivates. This would make it easier for the inspector to notice the derogations and to take action. The innocent are also not organisers of market sales, as they benefit economically from this, so they should be obliged to bear their own share of the responsibility for the quality of sales in their sales premises. That's why I want to know: Will you also include in the proposed legislative changes the creation of a register of cultures that would allow easier and faster control over the sale of crops on the markets, and will you exacerbate penalties for offenders? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u73	Would you like to complete your answer, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thanks for the extra question. Exactly, Member, that is exactly what we are thinking about bringing in a register and also raising penalties. Together, we will agree on where that limit is, that the punishment is already dissuasive, while still proportionate, that there will be no obvious attempt to do harm. There's something else I'd like to say, if you'll excuse me. In the last three days, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, we get what we as a country, that is, what our official authorities needed, we get a lot of applications – this time a report, a name, and where an offence is happening. If our inspectors get applications like this, not just rumors that the system isn't working, then they can really work effectively. And I believe that here, too, the thing will prove to have an effect. I'd like to say this. We will strengthen control, we will strengthen traceability. Surveillance is also taking place now, including the rules as to how it should be labelled, already in force. And even when we're strengthened, we'll still be hunting for violations through inspection. This is a fight where we must not surrender, but it is a struggle that will be permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you, too. Mr Ribič has a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u76	Yeah, there's a lot to do in this area. A lot of food has come home, and more could have been done if business and then sales were more transparent to pay off farmers. There's a lot of shit going on, because that's not worth it, that's where it's cheaper. But if we have domestic food in front of us, if we have domestic producers in front of us, then we should in some way stimulate and support it. The topic is very topical, so it would be good to discuss this issue here in the National Assembly of Opposition and Coalition Members. I do not see any differences in this area, so I propose a debate in the National Assembly following the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or an appropriate article allowing us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Dragutin Mate will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. In recent days, at the edge of the public debate, we can hear very different statements and, above all, different calculations as to what the introduction of new taxes will mean for citizens of Slovenia. We are witnessing public presentations on television and also in written media, how drastic the introduction of new, higher taxes would be for the Slovenian countryside and especially for people who are living exclusively with farm work and food production. In our previous answer or question, we were able to hear concern for Slovenian food producers and how self-sustainment or care should be increased so that we can fully carry out self-sustainment, especially for agricultural products, and that food should be safer for us. You were able to hear in this response that we were at some turning point. Yes, indeed, we are at a turning point, a turning point in terms of tax decisions, taxes that will burden our countryside. In this regard, I am interested in: Did you, as Minister, have detailed analyses of the impact of the increase in taxes on agricultural land, forests, agricultural facilities on the basis of which you agreed to such a proposal? If that's what you had in mind, I'd like to know: Will you publish it publicly? If you didn't have it, I'd like to know: On what grounds did you agree that such a proposal went to a public debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u80	The honourable Member, although normally I do not answer with shame, would expect you, as former Minister, to know how the government works. Let me explain. The law we're talking about is not the law and it's not the draft government. We are talking about the draft of one of the Slovenian ministries, and this is not the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, but another ministry. It is true that that ministry, which is not possible and is not for the first time in this country, has given its view in all governments of how to regulate something at the same time in public treatment and in inter-departmental treatment. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment also gave its opinion at the time of the interdepartmental hearing on the draft law, which is not a draft government law, this is not a government draft. And let me also read our opinion to you, even though I have told it publicly many times. The proposal for the Real Estate Tax Act was prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which has also prepared an assessment of the income from real estate taxes in relation to each type of property. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, like all other ministries, received comments from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment in the framework of the interdepartmental debate, on the 26th of last month. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment disagrees with the imposition of the property tax applicable in agriculture and forestry. The Ministry also considers that the proposed tax rates for agricultural and forestry land and buildings for agricultural use are unnecessary or extremely high, given the potential intensity of the use of these properties in agriculture and forestry compared to other activities. Agriculture and forestry need real estate to manage its activities, such as land and buildings to a very large extent, as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has also supported by the calculation of the tax burden on individual employees in agriculture and forestry compared to the burden on employees in Slovenia. Taxation of protected forests is a particular problem. There is no possibility of cutting down forest reserves, forests with special purpose without action, closed forests, such as inaccessible forests, agricultural buildings in the register of cultural heritage, and property for agriculture and forestry within national, regional and landscape parks, a special protection regime and restrictions on the use and use of land. Such properties, agricultural and forest land have limited use, so they cannot be equated with other properties because their function is in the wider public interest: environmental protection, conservation of natural and cultural heritage. In addition, forest land is not only used by owners but also provides a general public benefit in the form of free passage across forest land, beekeeping, harvesting, recreation and so on. And the Ministry made these comments at the time it was intended to do so. I personally expect that also because your predecessors in this National Assembly have adopted a unanimous resolution. Let's get food for tomorrow. There are also operational programmes currently under way, a public debate aimed at producing more food in this country in 2020 than we now have at our disposal to take our proposals into account We also cited the Luxembourg case. In Luxembourg, the conclusion of agricultural negotiations two weeks ago, which is a very tax-regulated country, can burden property, can burden property, and Luxembourg has also realised that the taxation of agricultural areas in use, forest areas in use, buildings in use for food production is completely unnecessary and has not done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you, too. Mr Mate has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A very nice pianist performance, as you have had quite a few events in the last week after Slovenia. It's all the other people's fault. And you're right, it's not appropriate to teach people how something works, because we know exactly how the government works and how ministries work, so I'm going to allow myself a slightly rougher answer or an additional question, because you've used this tool, too, otherwise I wouldn't. First of all, you read us a very nice text that your pioneer service sent out to the public. You haven't answered anything. You didn't say what you disagree with, you didn't answer your suggestions. Finally, you were talking about Luxembourg, where there's no tax on it. I want to know: Does the Ministry hold that no tax will be imposed, no tax on additional agricultural land, forests and agricultural facilities intended for the production of food or the exploitation of forest? Tell me exactly what you're for. Don't hide. Don't hide because you're doing this. You tell us very well, but you don't tell us anything, not to us and not to the citizens. We don't know what you're gonna do. You say you disagreed. What did you disagree with? Exactly. Have you demanded a lower tax than is envisaged or proposed, or are you against any tax being imposed? The government and the ministries don't work in such a way that no one knows what else is doing. You're a minister in this government, you've sworn an oath in this national council, and you're personally responsible for it. That it will not then be as usual when we listen to different meetings or this morning on one committee, 'it is not right that our proposals are not taken into account, but because [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] different things, we have found out and we will agree with this." That's the policy you're running. And I'm specifically interested in: What do you disagree with? Are you opposed to any tax being imposed?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u84	Although we all use the Styrian word, obviously we don't understand each other. I do not know how to say more clearly that the Ministry has said that it does not agree with the tax on agricultural land in use, on the forest in use, on buildings in use for agricultural or food production. What is more, honourable Member, I cannot say more clearly. I can try to draw, I can try to write, but this is the position I read. And interestingly, this is not the position of the pear job. You know that the positions of ministers are not written by pear jobs, but there are directorates, there are professional services within ministries, and they write down the positions that we provide in inter-departmental coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Mr Mate has a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u86	Mr President, I would like to propose, in accordance with Article 246, that the National Assembly hold a broad debate on this. And of course why? I thought the Ministry's policy was run by a minister, not a directorate. It is the Minister who must provide guidance in such important decisions, not directorate. And I was talking earlier about reading a pierre file that was sent to the public. I am pleased, of course, that it has been said that there will be no tax. I hope that it is not necessary to draw, and that citizens will understand that you personally and the Ministry stand in the position that there will be no tax on the agricultural land being used, on the forests being exploited, and on the facilities used by farmers for this purpose. This kind of calms me down, but I still think it would be good to discuss this really very thoroughly, that after, let's say, this tax is going to be adopted, maybe on a smaller scale, you'll just say, "Yes, the government has decided so." Then you will have a personal decision if you do not agree to take personal action. I think that this debate will be of great benefit to us, and I hope that, after we have this tax or this tax law in Parliament, there will be no hiding places about what someone has said and that it strongly opposes, at least so I have understood you, and I hope that the Slovenian public, too, will strongly oppose you personally as a minister and as a ministry of taxes on the agricultural land used, on the forests exploited and, of course, on the agricultural facilities used by farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you, too. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July in the framework of the vote. Mag. Matthew Tonin, Nova Slovenija, will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you. Dear Minister, in these days several bitter mayors have turned to the New Slovenia Group of Members, who have informed us that after the end of this study year, which ended in June, the principals visited them and informed them of the following. The country has told us that we will no longer have 200 000 euros in the next school year. I'm talking about a high school. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Has this reduction been determined selectively or generally after high school? Has there been a reduction in these funds in all schools or just in some? If it comes to all the high schools, please, Your Honor Minister, if you can get us to know the legal basis on which you performed this reduction. However, if there has been a selective reduction in funding for individual high schools, I am interested in: What were the criteria for taking these funds away from some of your high schools and leaving them to others? I was very curious about this information. Why? Because a month ago, the minister also paid a generous visit to our parliamentary group, where we discussed the Ministry's plans for this and the following year, and then he made it clear clearly and clearly that he does not intend to change the standards and norms in this year, that is, in 2013. If these changes to standards and standards have not occurred, then I find it difficult to see the reasons why some schools would take away 200 000 euros. It's an enormous resource for high school. We are not talking about two, three thousand euros, but about 200,000 euros. Minister, I would like to ask you to explain, because it was obviously also explained by the Ministry, because if it were accurate and extensive, then the principal could also explain to the mayor why it happened, and the mayors would at least know the reasons why it happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. Unfortunately, the honourable Member, none of this is so tendentious that we should talk about a reduction or something like that. And he also holds everything I have told you in the Group of Members. No, we haven't changed norms and standards and we won't change them this year. But there was a change of methodology under the previous team. This methodology was adopted on 28 December of the previous year and entered into force on 1 January 2013. So deep down for the time of your government. That's what I'm talking about. If we are talking about one high school or all high schools or all schools, all secondary schools are subject to a new methodology. And, as it is said, it has not entered into force today, but has been in force since 1 January. It is true, however, that from 1 January to 1 September we had a so-called transitional period where we are, and we are still doing so, to all schools which, due to this transitional period in difficulty, have funded the matter, tried to resolve the issue where things are resolved that. It would not be right for funding conditions to change during the year. What the previous government did. So we try from case to case to case to case. It's not just high school in this particular package. At least some of the student homes have a bigger problem. We're talking about those high schools and student homes that have little or that I won't say too few students. That's the problem. Otherwise, the new methodology was published in the Official Journal, No. 107/2012 of 28. 12. 2012, it is based on – because it applies to secondary schools, but programs in secondary schools are different – at the price of each educational programme individually, but then within this, the price changes or the price is calculated on the student. So if we say over the finger, after all we're doing now, we can see that the biggest problems are in schools where they have fewer than 250 or 300 students. Those upper secondary schools that have fewer than this number are in trouble, as it were said, due to the changed methodology. Normatives and standards have changed in any way. Far from that, we are trying to solve what has not been solved before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u92	Minister, I thank you for your explanation. Now things will definitely be clearer. And I want to know one more thing: Is it true that the Ministry has instructed the directors to request the missing funds from the municipalities and does this seem normal to you, given that municipal budgets are adopted at the beginning of the year and that it is difficult to provide these additional funds for the operation and functioning of schools in mid-year? Why do I ask you that? Because you said yourself that you were solving things and trying to mitigate them from the beginning of the year until the beginning of September. Would it not be appropriate to consider gradually reducing these funds and to prepare schools in some way in such a way as to reduce funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer, Minister? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you very much for this addition. We are aware and, as we say, we are solving this matter one by one. As far as I understood the previous team that prepared this matter, this was the interim period, the adjustment period just from 1. 1. 2013 to 1. 9. 2013 Now from here on out, if money is not enough and schools have few students, then the question of rationalising the high school network is further. The founder is clearly the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia have, in addition to the institutional obligations, its founder duties. And we will respond appropriately wherever the local community agrees on one side and on the other side of the school. If the next step is needed, this is a question of the school network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you. The next question will be posed by the Magus. Majda Potrat, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in particular Dr. Jernej Pikalo, whom I am addressing with such a question. What is the position of the Ministry to reorganise the network of public secondary schools within the mandate of the previous Ministry of Education? How will the Ministry take action in those cases where the inclusion was not based on professional origins and was adopted despite the explicit opposition of all relevant stakeholders? Mr Minister, I note that my question touches to a certain extent on the issue of colleague Tonin. But I've been working on a network of high schools for quite some time. In the last year, in 2012, I asked myself or my colleagues three questions, the first question was raised in June 2012 and I asked questions about the criteria under which the proposed reorganisation of the network of schools where there was a pooling, disaggregation, addition, sometimes with the agreement of the stakeholders, was repeated without this agreement. I then raised the following question on 3 October, because on 2 August 2012 the Government adopted a decision to implement the reorganisation, an interesting date, this is August 2nd, already during the holidays, and a different network of schools is expected to operate on 1 January 2013. It was then that only Bevk, Janko Weber and I addressed the Ministry's initiative to wait for the reorganisation, to consider, to reach an agreement, and to see where it was worth it, to say so, and where not. Mr Minister, I am aware that, in the case of a reduced population of secondary school students, it is likely that there are many ways to rationalise work. However, if there are no valid reasons for this, if there is neither analysis nor consensus, it seems justified to ask you such a question, but what the current ministry will do, especially if we see that the financial consequences were unpredictable, even though they were foreseen, but they were not detected early enough. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u97	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this matter. Indeed, it overlaps partly with what colleague Tonin said, but I will take this opportunity to explain perhaps a little more broadly the Ministry's position on this issue. The fundamental task we have as a ministry is to maintain a stable and, of course, a sustainable network of secondary schools. And our idea is from the very beginning, you'll remember at the hearing before the parental committee, that we don't interfere, and we don't interfere with the school network by hand, and that it's a key idea to ensure a quality education process. This is also how we conduct this process, because, as you yourself have found and as I explained earlier to my well-respected colleague Tonin, the methodology for calculating prices for secondary schools has only entered into force with 1. 1. and, of course, this has certain consequences for the school network. But my position hasn't changed since the beginning. We insist that where there has been a combination of forces where there has been no serious analysis and no serious agreement on where there has been a strong opposition, we will try to correct these errors and, I can say, we are already correcting them. Where all relevant stakeholders, as you have expressed themselves, agree that this network of schools is being rationalised and, of course, we can continue with this process. At the same time, I also make it clear to every principal with whom I speak to each school director that they have a certain part of the responsibility. And I also ask each of you whether, given the demographic trends or the trends of the enrollment they have with their school, we can expect this school to be sustainable so that it can be maintained. I have to say, after a few discussions with the principals and the other stakeholders, there is this situation, and there is no one else. So we are very sensitive to this issue, but we are aware, as it is said, that on the one hand we have restrictions on funding and on the other hand the wishes of students, employment opportunities, employment trends and so on. This is a complex issue that we cannot and do not want to reduce simply to the issue of funding, because we have seen that this does not lead to the right results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for this part of the answer and I really see some changes. I also see that the questions that we have been asking have been duly raised and also proves a number of things that are now happening, that it is exactly where it wants to maintain a school with some reputation, with an appropriate entry, even a number of reasons, among which there is no last-minute support, such as the Styria Chamber of Commerce or Podravja. Of course, I am talking about the Maribor High School of Electro-computers and I am using this opportunity to point out once again that there are two students, students of this school, and their mentor have won the first place in the world robotics competition. It's a school like this to drown in a center where it's combined with a machine and then with a hairdresser, it's a sin to say so. Especially if there's so much emotional capital attached to it, a sense of commitment. And this school doesn't have a record problem. At the same time, we write in our documents how we will raise the timber industry, how we must encourage forestry, and we will join the forestry school in electronics and IT. These things need to be done with a feeling. And there's probably another school, because things change in education. With reference to how we said a few years ago that professions should be deregulation, I am hearing today that some professions need to be re-regulated. And we will encourage interest in vocational schools precisely if we support good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Dr. Pikalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much. It is true, and you are right, we will indeed arouse interest if we have a suitable network on one side, and on the other hand, if all our actions are thought through and coordinated with stakeholders. I can say what I have already said in one of the previous questions sent that this year the entry points to an increased enrolment in vocational schools, which is good, because I think we have less in this area. As for this particular school, you probably know that on the last government visit to Maribor, I went to this school, and I continued to talk with teachers, that is, with the teaching choir of this high school, and then with the other principals and the director of the centre, who was united in my opinion in an inappropriate way. During this discussion, we had a very clear exchange of views, and I think that I was also very well able to draw up an opinion on this merger, and today I know even more than I knew before only from the papers, that it was not made elegantly and was not carried out as it should be. We are working on these matters today so that we are heading in a different direction. But it is not only that, it is probably another secondary school in the Republic of Slovenia that will need our attention. As far as these two world champions are concerned, I can inform this assembly that we have made a very special reception for them today. It's really fascinating, if you ever have time, take it and go look at what our students can do and how useful this thing can actually be when you have this robot 20 times 20 centimeters, who is qualified to look for survivors in earthquakes and can move on all sides, with an extraordinary "know how" and I must also say at this point an extraordinary research potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Romana Tomc to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Yes, the Minister is absent today, as are many other ministers as well as all members of Positive Slovenia. Obviously we are really wasting our time here and asking something that Slovenia wants to get answers to, but this government has clearly concluded that this is irrelevant and does not participate. I welcome the last minister to leave us. Government benches are completely empty, but still. In addition to the adoption of pension legislation and labour law, both reforms, the Slovenian State Holding Act, the law allowing banks to be rehabilitated, were the notorious ZUJF one of those measures of the Janša government that marked last year. But its adoption was the reason why, after a few years, it could even begin to talk about reducing the budget deficit and that we could adopt the budget. We didn't take him with enthusiasm, that's for sure. It was very difficult because we were aware that this law would have negative consequences for people. That is why we have tried to implement these measures selectively, to reduce the burden on those who are the weakest and to find reserves where there is still some room for manoeuvre. And the ZUJF was giving results, and it's giving more this year. But remember, dear fellows and colleagues, and if the Minister were here, of course that would ask him, with what words and indignation the acceptance of the ZUJF was accompanied. We have heard that we are destroying the social state, that we will cause irreparable damage, that we will destroy the school, that science will be no more. See what our colleagues said: "The numbers in the super law, the ZUJF, in this year's balance sheet and in the new budget for 2012 and 2013 clearly show that this government thinks systematically to destroy intelligence." The second MP said, "We have reached the bottom of this law." And so on. In short, today, respected colleagues and colleagues who are not here, and a respected minister who is not here, you are in a position to correct all these injustices that you have spoken so loudly about. The charges on your part were clear and very clear. Where are you today to change this marriage to correct all injustices? That's why my question was to the Minister – when are you going to propose changes to the law and why aren't you going to propose them? - a sublime question. Didn't you say something and do something else?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Would you like a written answer or an oral reply, madame Tomcheva? [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. According to your question you will receive a written answer within 30 days. However, let me inform you that we have received a notice to the National Assembly, on 5 July, from the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Tanja Sharabon, that there will be questions of Members and Members, mag. Mr Stanko Stepišnik, Minister for Development and Technology Economists, absent due to the business trip in Brussels on 9 July 2013. So today. I apologize for telling you about Stepišnik, I would like to tell you about Dr Uroš Cufer, Minister of Finance, who is absent from his participation in the Council of the European Union for Economic and Financial Affairs on 9 July 2013 in Brussels. That's why Dr. Uroš Cuffer, who you're asking him today, is absent. Among the Members of Positive Slovenia today, I am present in the Chamber, and the others are not just absent, but are in coordination. We move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u106	In order not to make it sound, I, my esteemed colleague Vice-President, still object to the fact that the Minister is absent, I know he is absent, and I take that into account, but I have asked him a question. But let me still find out that it's the only thing that ministers are obviously coming now, because they still feel that it would be right to show that respect in this national council, that at least someone is sitting here. Of course you are from Positive Slovenia, this moment you are holding a meeting, but look at these benches. These benches are completely empty. Apparently, no one who was full of words about the hungry children sitting in our school benches, the heart of those words. What about today? Who else would be interested in that? Not at all. And I don't think that's right, and I object to you teaching me this way, and I know what it means if the minister apologizes. And I respect that if the Minister of Finance couldn't be with us today, maybe we could be someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam colleague, Vice-President Romana Tomc, but I think I have told you in reply that colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia are in coordination and I am sure that you do not mind them, although you have made this public. During the previous term of office, the previous governments have often sat down only one of the ministers, the ones who have been asked the question and we have not objected to it, and I would not like you to resent it, even though you have made a somewhat more controversial appearance. We are moving on to the next question. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask a question from the ministers, the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Stan Stepichnik. As I read earlier, both apologized for the absence and the business trip to Brussels. So please also, if you express how you want the answer. Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u108	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The apology for the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Development and Technology is likely justified. The relationship between the coalition and the current situation in Slovenia also appears now with an empty hall. There are no coalition MPs. However, it is probably important questions from ministers. Above all, it is also worrying those ministers who have a legitimate way abroad, but I assume that most ministers are here, but they are not in the National Assembly. Yesterday, Ollie Rehn said, "The Slovenians are running out of time." In view of the situation in the hall, however, I would say that the time may be running out for the government of Alenka Bratušek. The question, which is related to the project and the contract signed by Slovenia at the end of 2012, with the European Investment Bank of EUR 500 million. It should be noted that this is a very favourable loan which Slovenia can draw for 25 years, with a seven-year moratorium and a very low interest rate. This credit is cheaper than if Slovenia owed around €260 million to the market. The question I am now asking the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Economy is, above all, in this respect, that it has been more than six months since the signing of this Treaty. I want to know: How far is it by drawing on these funds, which are very beneficial for Slovenia for structural funds projects, regional development projects and infrastructure? I have a feeling that this loan has been slightly forgotten or that this government is unable to prepare projects so that this dedicated loan can be drawn up. Above all, it is also worrying that all these investments are being reduced in the balance sheet of the budget to be addressed tomorrow. There is a decline in European funds, and at the table we have a contract of EUR 500 million at a very favourable price, and undoubtedly also the words of the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, Mr Toneto Ropa, are being followed in an interview, and this government is unable to prepare projects that are not prepared to draw on these funds and thus, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the economy and mainly the burden of taxpayers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. You wish to receive your next oral or written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u110	Given the parliamentary holidays and the seriousness of this project and the drawing up of these European funds, I expect a written reply from both ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much, mag. Marco Pogačnik. You'll get a written answer. I see that there are now 6 of the 26 Members from your parliamentary group. So much for your previous statement. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will ask the Minister of Economic Development and Technology a question. Stan Stepišnik, who is absent due to his business trip to Brussels. Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u112	Dear Chairman! I propose that you respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you do your work in particular, this means holding a meeting, not commenting on other matters, because I do not think that this is the responsibility of the President or the President-in-Office of the State. However, when you are in your seats, you will probably be able to have your own debate. That's why I suggest you focus on the work, the management of this session, not every five minutes, you comment on each of our matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much, mag. It's a cakemaker. I will take your proposal into account, but I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have the power to assess whether any of the Members or Members is offensive to other Members and Members, I have the opportunity to say the same. So don't be angry, please. Can I help you, Mrs. Tomc? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u114	Yes, I'm sorry, Madam Vice President, but I would like to know, because you responded, you said you could respond if any of the Members or Members were offensive. And you responded. Since I've been discussing it, please explain whether I was insulting or my colleague mag. Marco Pogačnik. What did you respond to? What insult?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u115	You will read the magnetogram of the session and you will know very well how you were and how colleague Pogačnik discussed it. We're moving on. Here you go, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, I welcome all those present. In the last period, I have observed three reports from the various supervisory authorities which have identified the same infringements, namely, infringements of legislation in relation to the two status and personally related legal persons, which are the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and the International Institute for Consumer Research. All three reports revealed a violation of legislation relating to the European Consumer Centre, the Consumer VIP Journal and the Register of Consumer Organisations. I am talking about the internal audit of the Ministry of Economic Development, I am talking about the Anti-Corruption Commission, both of which were issued in February this year and in June or last month, the Office of Budgetary Control issued an inspection notice. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister, given that more than four months have passed since the first two reports: What have you done about it, or what management or correctional measures, is your ministry or you yourself carried out? Since the Commission is even talking about eliminating systemic corruption risks, I am therefore interested in: Do the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and the International Institute of Consumer Research still have the status of a consumer organisation? Is it possible that the Ministry has launched a property claim concerning the VIP magazine and the co-financing of the European Consumer Centre against these two institutions in the light of the findings I have previously stated? Has the Minister initiated disciplinary or criminal proceedings against those responsible in these two organisations? Last thing I want to know is: Does the Minister feel that these two organisations can still be recipients of public funds in view of the violations identified in the future? I propose or ask if the Minister will answer me orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Stanko Stepišnik will give you an oral answer to your request at the next meeting. We are coming to the next question. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Secretary! You've explained some of this to your fellow Member before, but the answer I'm expecting is not given, and I hope you will now. This is mainly a systemic solution to the problem of our elderly, those who already reach and exceed the age of 80 and should be provided in a systematic way for this category of people, which is also growing in Slovenia from year to year. I am convinced that the only way to make this a system-wide arrangement is to adopt appropriate legislation, and this would be a law on long-term care. As I am aware, the previous government, which you then inherited, had in mind an attempt to prepare and regulate this law within a period of one early term. Now that you've inherited this area, I'm curious: How do you feel about this question? Do you continue or want to maintain this concept to the same extent, or will you change it? The finding that you have already stated to my predecessor that the lack of funds is one of the main reasons why this law should not be adopted, I do not think it should be crucial. Finally, it is true that such a law or the implementation of this law may require additional resources, but you yourself have found that the proper organisation of the care of our elderly could give rise to opportunities for a number of new jobs that could have even more positive effects, not just costs. So I would ask you, if you could not only me, but this is the interest of many of our elderly people, not least the pensioners who asked me to ask you this question, please answer: What is the destiny and future of those who will need such care? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Just as I had answered earlier, I would like to point out at the outset that my predecessor Visjak actually intended to arrange this, just as the Pahor government had intended. As I said before, the marriage has had a beard for a very long time, and I really wish we could now prepare the law in a way that will be financially sustainable, because the reason that it is not possible to provide additional financial resources cannot be the reason that we no longer prepare the law. Perhaps the law will be a little less generous with rights, but I would still like to make a law as a competent minister for this area, which will lay some groundwork so that it may be better in the future that no successor or successor of mine will be able to deal with the same issue. It seems to me that a law on long-term care and care or long-term care and care needs to be adopted in our country in order to establish an insurance principle which, at some intergenerational solidarity, will provide the possibility of a much more stable system and also from this exercise of age rights. We know that Slovenia, with the ageing population, as has already been said today, is an ageing society that will have a high proportion of the elderly, not only those over 65 years old, those over 80 years old, and it is necessary to respond in a timely manner to the changed needs, because this will have a significant impact on the social protection system, the health system, the pension system and, of course, the need for long-term care insurance. That's what we're talking about with the Minister of Health. We have a law prepared, there are several different options. We must decide on what will be most rational at a given time, because unfortunately we are in such an economic and financial situation as we are. I'm sure everyone in this temple knows what this situation is. When we discuss the rebalancing, it is said that we have too little access to budget expenditure and that we will need to be rational here and make a system that will be financially sustainable. However, I agree that it is urgently needed and that by the end of this year it is also in the government's plan to be addressed by the Government by the end of the year. My plan is to make the proposal by the end of the year, and I think that in the following year we will also be in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Finance, or the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, who is absent today, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary, who is absent today! It is generally known that we have had problems in the pension fund for a long time with the provision of sufficient funds for the regular monthly payment of pensions to our pensioners and pensioners. Thus, part of the missing surplus cash must be provided by the State from the budget. As a result, we regularly listen to how good the Government is, as it provides the necessary missing money in the budget, otherwise it would not be possible to pay the pension in full. Is the government really that good, or is "suck" actually somewhere else? Yes! Indeed, the real problem is somewhere else all the time since independence. At the time the money was sufficient; what enough, even the amount of money remained after the regular monthly payment of pensions! If the country had been a good host, this amount of money would have been done wisely and nobled by it, but today we would not have had these problems, despite the known fact that today there are only 1.4 employees working for one pensioner, and immediately after independence there were four workers working for one pensioner. Since this was not a noble thing in the past, it was even taken from the pension register, me and the entire Slovenian public, and in particular Slovenian pensioners and pensioners are specifically interested in the following. I ask for data or analysis for each individual Slovenian government, stating its prime minister from its independence on: How much money did the government take from the pension fund in a given mandate? I also ask for an accurate and clear statement: For what purpose did the project spend it? I believe that the Slovenian public deserves to finally know how bad it was at the time of the independent Slovenia with the money from the pension register, which was intended for the sole purpose and only for the payment of pensions and for no other purpose. Everything else that was going on with these money was, to put it mildly, unacceptable. Of course, I thank you both very much in advance for the concrete answer. But I would like for Minister Cuffer to answer me in the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you for asking. This question concerns the issue of the exhaustion of the pension allowance and I would like to explain in the introduction that our system is essentially a "pay as you go" system, or based on intergenerational solidarity, so that payments are immediately spent on payments. According to the official data of the Slovenian Pension and Disability Insurance Institute from 1990 onwards, it can be concluded that the collection of contributions for pension and disability insurance for most of that period was not sufficient to pay all the rights under this insurance. In 1990, the PIZ Community, i.e. the Community of Pensions and Disability Insurance, ended its business year with a deficit of 442.7 million dinars. Since only 5.3 million dinars were available in the reserve fund, the deficit was transferred to 1991. In 1991, the PIZ Community closed its business year with an surplus of 6 000 391 million Slovenian tolars. This surplus was partly used to finance investments in the company’s computer equipment and, in the main part, the surplus was allocated to the liquidity reserve fund and to cover current losses – 6,243 million Slovenian tolars were transferred. In 1992, the Institute completed its business year with a loss of 3 000 157 million Slovenian tolars. This was legally covered by the mandatory reserve reserve of the reserve fund. In 1993, the Institute completed its business year with an surplus of SIT 5 000 379 million, which was transferred to the 1994 revenue, as a deficit was again foreseen for the last year. In 1994, the Institute showed a deficit of one thousand and 155 million tolars, which it had covered from the transferred assets of the previous business year. In 1994, the funds of the reserve fund amounted to 10 000 247 million, which were charged to the debtors of the Ministry of Finance and Liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia. In 1995, the Institute re-examined a deficit of SIT 12 000 358 million, which was covered by the full resources of the mandatory reserve fund, still showing a SIT of SIT 1 623 million unfunded deficit which it transferred in 1996. Since 1996, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 1996 has in fact stated that the State has been paying the equivalent deficit from the State budget, which has also been legalized by the ZPIZ-1 and also the ZPIZ-2. We also have tables such as since 1996 the co-financing shares have been cashed into the cashier's PPIZ. For example, if we look at 1996 it was 254.5 million dollars in millions, then it was 443 million in 2001, for example, it was growing all the time, except for 2007 and 2008, for example, it was a little bit smaller, and we're talking about the amount of 644.6 million, 666.2 million, and 2011 it's over a billion. At the same time, since 1999 the capital company has also provided in the pension cashier’s regular inflows. I have this information here, too. Approximately in recent years: in 2010 there were 100,000 euros, last year there were 50,000 euros. From the above, it can be concluded that pension funds were used exclusively for the payment of pension and disability benefits during that period from 1990 until now and have been used strictly in this respect. I am also happy to send these numbers to you because the answer needs to be comprehensive, with lots of numbers, so I am happy to send these numbers to you by e-mail.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Minister for Answers. I would like to have this information sent to me in writing so that we can study them in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Hršak, I would like to inform you that there are 42 seconds left for the reply of Minister Chufer, if you would like to be answered orally at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. This is what I wanted in the beginning to have Mr. Minister Cufer answer me orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u129	In accordance with the rest of his time, he will answer you. We are moving on to the next question put by Mrs Alenka Jeraj to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We were able to read in the media that the Ministry of Health has granted a concession to treat patients with autism. In February this year, the doctor sent a public letter to her parents, informing them of her decision to leave the Paediatric Clinic Ljubljana and that she would continue her activities within the framework of the Institute for Autism at a new location in Mozir. As reasons for leaving, she cited inadequate spatial conditions for work and lack of support for the management of the University Clinical Centre. The letter was sent to parents by children of autistics, and parents also initiated procedures before an information officer. Today, we read in the newspaper that Mrs. Information Commissioner imposed on Mrs Lukšič a fine of 830 euros and a reminder because she misused data from UKC Ljubljana and the e-mail addresses of her parents should not be used. The Ministry first rejected the application or the concession was not granted. Later, Vesna Melanšek of the Šempeter Society's Center for Autoism also responded to Macedoni Lukšič's writing, expressing the fear that money for autism will again go into the hands of someone who does not work for autism but works for it. Ms Macedoni Lukšič's Ministry of Health then asked for a concession for an autism programme, both for children and adults, in June 2012. In the SDS Group, we ask ourselves how this application for concession was then top priority at the Ministry of Health. We have also read from the media that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has given a negative opinion on the granting of the said concession, because in his opinion this concession is not necessary because there are no waiting periods in this area. The Director of the Institute also pointed out that it was not the first time that the Ministry of Health had awarded concessions contrary to their opinion. In addition, he explained that the fragmentation of such programmes entails additional risks, since although the programme remains at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana to an unaltered extent, some patients will be followed by a doctor. Macedoni Lukšič obtained a concession for 0.6 medical teams, which will cost taxpayers about €36,000 in 2013. Yesterday, we were also able to listen to the contribution that Mr Luksic or the Ministry of Social Affairs, at the initiative of Mr Luksic, caused pressure on Yuri Malešević, the investor of this building in Mozir. In view of this, I ask the Minister: How could he grant that concession, given that he also has a negative opinion from the Health Insurance Office?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister will answer you at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u132	Given that the next meeting will be held at the end of September, I will ask the Minister in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, Mr. Secretary will answer you in writing. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will put the question to the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u134	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns two main ministries, both the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology and the Ministry of the Interior. I know that the Ministry of the Economy is the primary ministry covering investment projects, that is to say drawing on European funds. Above all, this is where investments based on environmental cohesion policy led by municipalities are the largest. The current government reference, however, includes municipalities or local self-government under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior and the mayors first turn to their district minister, that is to say you. In this regard, I would like to hear your opinion: What is your opinion on the proposed reduction of investment funds for municipalities in the 2013 budget rebalancing proposal, amounting to a good 70 million? Now it's redistributing 3 million back to this item. How will this reduction affect the already signed conclusions of the congregations? If the information is that we also get this information: What does this mean for the already signed conclusions? Will the municipalities be able to implement the already signed conclusions or will there actually be an amendment to the already signed investment position agreements in these European cohesion projects?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Žnidar! I would probably get more precise answers to this question if the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, who is not here today, were to answer this question, so that I could not answer you today. It is also true that mayors often refer to us as a ministry responsible for local self-government, even when it comes to some problems belonging to another department. That's how I've done my research, obtained data, and I can try to answer you. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, it is argued that this year's rebalancing is without prejudice to funds intended to co-finance investments in local public infrastructure under Articles 21 and 23 of the Community Financing Act. It is true that the Ministry of Economy is being completely reduced by the budget, I think for a little more than 60 million, but it is co-financing other projects, not investment at the level of municipalities. Not municipal investment. Therefore, at the Ministry, they ensure that all investment projects co-financed by MGRT will also be implemented without change and that the balance will not be affected. They also point out that most of these funds are intended to co-finance as Slovenia's own participation in projects co-financed by the EU and this is an additional reason why these funds are not being reduced in the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. So you will receive an additional written reply, Mrs Žnidar, as Mr Minister has said. Do you want a refill? Probably not. We turn to the next question raised by Mr Andrej Čuš to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting, especially to the Minister. This time, I would like to focus mainly on the implementation of the Act on Scholarshiping and in particular on violations of the Act. Otherwise, students' representatives, both the Students' Organisation of Slovenia and in particular the Association of Student Clubs of Slovenia, began to draw attention to the violation of the scholarship law with the first decisions issued to grant Zois' scholarship. Failure to comply with legal deadlines is most evident when responding to complaints, as the waiting period for a response to a complaint in some students has already reached a period of nine months. The Public Fund for the Development of Personnel and Grants also grossly violates legislation by delaying the granting of decisions on the award of Zois's scholarship. The legal deadline is clearly set, namely 2 months from the fullness of the application. In this case, infringements of the grantor go to the extent that they are not only late to issue the award decisions, but, as previously said, also complaints or deadlines for the complaint exceed 8 months. We know what the social situation is between students and since many people do not spend many months, when, if at all, they receive a scholarship, then they do not get answers to a complaint If few bills – 8 months is already the end of the academic year, but a complaint about receiving Zois’s scholarship is not resolved. [[...]] That's why I want to know: What will the ministry do in the future to shorten these waiting periods because they are truly lifeless and make it difficult to plan a future for a young individual? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you for asking. I agree that delays occurring both in the Fund and in the Ministry of Complaints can in some way be understood from the point of view of the Ministry's and the Fund's available human resources capabilities, but for those who are entitled or awaiting justice, of course, are not justified. That is why, with the participation of all other departments, for which I thank them, we have succeeded in having the Government consider a solution proposal this week to ensure that a certain number of employees are transferred from other departments to our departments, so that we can do what has happened to us also with social legislation and also with the increased number of applications we have for the Zois Scholarship, for other forms of rights that the Ministry, as a secondary body, can service, so as to ensure to people or citizens and citizens that we also respond to them in accordance with this deadline. However, it should also be pointed out here that, unfortunately, many roles are also incomplete, that the Fund cannot then decide on the incomplete roles and that if the Fund has to ask individuals more than once to complete this role, of course there are also certain delays. So there are several levels here, and there is also a question of how the data required are. So, too, we will do everything we can to help citizens and citizens to fully fulfil the role of being as few of these obstacles as possible. We'll certainly do everything we can to keep these backlogs as small as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u141	Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u142	Some changes have recently been made in the area of the application of temporary residence. Perhaps you are planning some changes in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u144	The law on residence registration is not within the competence of the Ministry of Labour. The law there says how to apply for temporary residence. For these changes, the Minister who previously responded should be asked. The current version says that this should be reported within three days of the accommodation. In this regard, you've asked me about the scholarship allowance before. Last year there was a lot of dissatisfaction among students, because these instructions were not clear enough early enough for the addition to stay to arrange this accommodation, temporary stay, before only filing an application, so the students were very unhappy that they thought this had changed at the last moment, although of course it was not true; legislation had been in force for a long time and it was very clear. We've done it in a timely way this year. In our application for Zois' scholarships, we also gave clear instructions to students and students how. In the past year, however, the matter under our Minister was carried out as it was, and the fact is that it has to be made clear that the Ministry is then in December, as soon as the change initiatives have come, that the uncertainties have also given an explanation and that the forests are not desirable in the communications between those who report and those who then decide on these rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister of Defence Mr. Roman Jakič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Maybe some general facts first. Firefighting organisations, either voluntary or professional, shall carry out fire-fighting and rescue tasks, other, in particular preventive fire-protection tasks, certain human protection and rescue tasks and assets in the event of natural and other disasters, as well as certain other services. Thirteen professional fire brigades and twenty-one volunteer, so-called fire brigades of wider importance, carry out the task of intervention in the event of road accidents and accidents where dangerous substances occur. In Slovenia we have professional firefighting units, voluntary firefighters units in firefighting companies and fire brigades in companies, institutions and other organisations that perform professional or voluntary tasks. Slovenian firefighting has a long tradition and in the world our firefighting is highly appreciated. Mr Minister, in early 2008, as an internal organisational unit of the Education Centre for Protection and Rescue, a fire school has been established, which has been successfully operating for several years. As early as 2005, we wrote in Article 31 of the Firearms Act that a higher fire school would also be established. At its January 2010 meeting, the Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational and Professional Education adopted a decision on the Higher Education Programme for Firefighting. The Minister of State then adopted the decision and since then activities have been under way to effectively establish a higher school for firefighters. It is the title of the professional education of a firefighter and it is primarily a commanding staff. The objectives of the study programme are to educate engineers with broad and professional, technical and practical expertise in the field of firefighting and to develop confidence and determination for the right decisions in the resolution of the professional problem. In view of the situation in the field of protection and rescue, this is the most important part of the leadership of interventions. Any further delay could have negative consequences for the entire protection and rescue system. Last but not least, the very complexity of the force field to regulate education in this way. The lack of a second level of personnel, i.e. commanders, is already critical at this moment, so I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What will be your next steps with regard to the establishment of a higher fire school and when can firefighters expect or expect the start of such an education? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u147	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Horvath, thank you very much for the question and also the praises you have given to our firefighters. True, a higher education study of the firefighting programme is a publicly valid two-year study programme containing one hundred and twenty loans. The programme also makes it possible to obtain the sixth level of education and is intended to further train firefighters, since between the conditions to be met by the applicant, in addition to the general or professional graduation, there is also a school for firefighters. Higher education in the firefighting programme is based on two laws or the Firefighting Act and the Higher Education Act. The programme is based on the methodology for the preparation of higher education curricula, with the Ministry working with the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education and the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Higher Education Sector. As you yourself said, the higher education programme was signed by the then Minister of Defence at the beginning of 2010 and on this basis a number of activities were carried out in 2010 and 2011 to start the operation of this higher fire school. It is said that a study programme has been adopted, a decision has been taken to set up a school within the Education Centre for Protection and Rescue, and all preparations have been made to do so. However, the fact is that in 2012, when matters need to be clarified and schooled in practice is actually established, certain congestions have arisen mainly due to human resources completion, financial and spatial conditions, although certain procedures have been carried out to ensure human resources completion and to regulate spatial conditions. I estimate that these activities can be carried out in a way that will enable the school to start operating in 2014; of course, if there is sufficient interest among the professional firefighters themselves, which we intend to re-check before doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Croat, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Minister, for the correct answer. It encouraged me to put this issue first of all in the budget balance, where you wrote that due to the failure to complete the structured jobs of the Higher Fire School and the reduction of the funding for the adaptation of the facilities, there will be no conditions for the establishment of the Higher Fire School and, consequently, a questionable entry in the 2013/2014 academic year. This was actually the reason that I asked you because I asked these questions every time to the Minister of Defence or to the Minister of Defence, because I think there is a lack of a commanding staff in Slovenian firefighting. For eight years there have been no education in this area, and we all know that this is an extremely sensitive and professional area to be managed. I have understood the reasons you have listed, and I understand them now, as I have understood all the reasons that have been in line since 2005 from every minister, but I appeal to you as much as you can to ensure this second level of command as soon as possible, because this staff is in fact critically lacking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u151	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u152	My friend Croat, it's true, you're right. The rebalancing concerns this year, but I said that 2014 would expect this to happen because, in fact, the actual start of this school needs to be ensured, as I said, by human resources and financial conditions. The estimated costs of this first-year programme, of course without the provision of the premises themselves, are around €18 000 at the price of the Education Centre for Protection and Rescue. Small money, but there are also some open questions. I can only make them concrete enough for you to get to know them. Firstly, the premises intended for the operation of the Higher Fire School are currently being used by the ITF, a facility for strengthening human security, for which, in cooperation with a colleague of Erjavcs from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, alternative premises are sought. It is also necessary to adapt the higher education firefighting programme to carry out an extraordinary study. As you know, most of these people are employed and could only be enrolled in this study as part of a study at work. It is necessary to prepare an act establishing the school and to mediate to the Government, to carry out the selection of lecturers and to refer it to the appointment of a commission to appoint lecturers from higher schools, to prepare an invitation to enroll in the study year when all these conditions are met, to arrange for the premises of the Higher Fire School, to obtain a positive opinion on the appropriateness of this facility, to arrange documentation, to organise a study of the first year, to carry out the enrollment of students and to appoint administrators. I suppose that if there were no further complications, we could do so and in the study year 2014-2015 we would do so. Once again, it will be necessary to check first whether it is a matter of interest and, if it is - here I agree that it is also necessary to take care of this dominant part of the fire and educate it - we will definitely do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The next question put by Mr Tomaž Lisec to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Honourable Minister and other Ministerial Colleagues! Minister, I am asking you the same question as at the June session, this is a question of energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities. I told you that at the time, because the only concrete answer to many of the questions was that 220 applications came to the second call. Therefore, Minister, I hope you will be more concrete and substantive today. Maybe for an illustration. In September 2012, former Minister Černač published a public invitation to tender — a great deal of interest, reported nearly 200 projects in 125 municipalities, total value over 100 million, then 100 projects were approved, and then Minister Černač decided to publish the so-called second call at the beginning of March this year because almost 6 million euros were available and it was then envisaged that between 130 and 150 projects would be approved. Then there was an exchange of government, and after the first May holidays, the deadlines of this second public tender expired, but until today, there is nothing new on your ministry's website or in the review of media publications. Why am I talking about this issue and it seems very important to me? Because it was at the time of the opposition that this government majority was talking about how to increase investment in infrastructure, how to help construction, how to draw on European funds. But now that you have a chance to do something, you do nothing in this area, but according to the paradigm of this government: actions are diametrically contrary to words or in this area of action in the last three months. Therefore, Minister, allow me to ask you again a few questions and, as I have already said, I hope that you will be more concrete and substantive today. What is the new situation in this area? How many decisions have been made or signed in this second invitation to tender? If the contracts are still not signed: When can congregations expect to be able to sign a contract? Once again, I want to know: What is the financial aspect of the tender, i.e. the total value of the applications received and the value of the projects selected? Is there any other invitation to tender? The interest of the congregations is enormous to even speed up matters in this area, not as some feel they are hiding them, and as I said, you have been mucking things since March. Many mayors have also turned to me personally. They have some suspicion that another story is going on in the back or that it is going to some paradigm of this government that is sharply cutting in the countryside. They even say that it is likely that many projects will be rejected, leaving some money that some think will go to the rehabilitation or rescue of larger buildings or projects mainly in Ljubljana – I can mention the case of Stožice – or in other major cities that are favored by the government. Since I'm running out of time, I'm curious about some answers at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u156	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members, a nice greeting, honourable Mr Lisec, thank you for asking the same question as before. I think I have tried to illustrate to you the importance of the topic before, how much emphasis we are giving it, and I will also repeat the numbers I mentioned earlier, which were very exact. This time I'm going to go into more details and really translate this table for you, we can also send you this table, so you'll have written material so you won't tell me that you don't get exact data. But I'm going to go back a little bit to the concept of energy efficiency and rehabilitation of buildings. Last time in my reply, I made it clear that this is a segment, which, as a minister – and as our ministry – I am extremely supportive; not only because I personally believe this story, but also because, in fact, the whole of Europe is particularly focused on this area, there is an enormous amount of funding for this area and I personally believe that this future is both in Europe and in Slovenia. I also made it clear that I am an outstanding supporter not only of passive energy efficiency but also of active ones, in which I see an extraordinary opportunity for Slovenian companies as well. This can achieve a great deal in foreign markets, not only in the domestic market, with its technologies, but also in foreign markets in this area. These hints of yours to take some stories back to the back seem totally incorrect and really unrealistic without any basis. Even hinting in the direction of who is responsible and who is going to prescribe what medals for these invitations, I find unrealistic and unrealistic, incorrect if you want. What is a fact is that the call for energy recovery took place during our term of office. What is the fact that the invitation to tender has been issued before, but quite a few calls we have had previously published, which have not experienced epilogues. So, what is crucial: the call to end, to sign contracts and works to surrender and then also to draw on funds, particularly in the field of European funds. Here I hope to say that we are extremely successful and that these pumps are going very well for us. In particular, I will read you the exact number for specific calls. We had two calls. The call for co-financing of energy recovery operations, first, was worth 50 million 565 thousand 215, which is where we received or signed 108 contracts, and at this point we have EUR 753 thousand 657 thousand to be paid. At the second invitation we had the first and second opening; at the first opening we received 165 applications, at the second opening of 46 applications, i.e. a total of 221 applications, of which 10 applications were withdrawn. For the first opening we have €8.4 million planned in 2013, €18.2 million in 2014 and €5.5 million in 2015, a total of €32.5 million. At the second opening, where 46 applications arrived, we have €2 million planned for 2013, €7.7 million for 2014 and €1.3 million for 2015. So, as far as all the calls are concerned, I must point out that we have given this particular attention. We believe that energy recovery is of paramount importance, especially because we are talking about primary schools and kindergartens, and in the ministry, as well as the whole team involved, we have given this particular emphasis and we are trying to make the funds at the maximum level exhausted and that this energy recovery succeeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Here's a supplement to your answer, Mr. Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you for a little more substantive answer than last time. I support your support, but you always know the words are one thing and the actions are the other. I find it difficult to agree that you were also the bearer of the former Minister of Montenegro's activities, because the first call was in September 2012 and, according to my conduct, you were not anywhere near the Minister's city at the time. The invitation, including the second one, was prepared by Minister Cernač in March, so in fact you just continue his work, unfortunately slowly. I said earlier that after the first May holidays, the deadlines for the second public tender had expired and the contracts had not yet been signed. I'm interested in contracts: When can the congregation expect contracts? That, I think, is also a very specific question. Look, Minister, you're always talking about investments in this government, about construction, about European funds Here's the simple task, you could probably meet with a third call in September. [[...]] You change the data a little bit, maybe we could put in this call an energy recovery of firehouses, sports or cultural facilities, but how will we do something else in September if we probably don't finish this second call that should be completed after May 1st, and the municipalities should already have contracts. It is likely that a smaller congregation will meet with a smaller project this year during vacation time to be able to rehabilitate or renovate a school or a kindergarten. I'm saying, I think the local communities, as well as construction, could be very grateful if we could hurry a little bit, but hurry up with the actions, not with the quivering of the feathers of another. So I ask you again: When can the congregations expect to sign contracts by the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u159	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thanks for the extra questions, the challenges, if you want. Mr. Fox, I'm really asking you to listen carefully when I answer. I said 108 contracts, so I'm talking about 108 signed contracts, and you're reading that contracts aren't signed. Once again, 108 signed contracts. When you talk about the calls made by Mr Cernač – great, I strongly support this and I agree that he has prepared these calls. But what I have pointed out in the last three years, as I have seen, has been a number of calls at the Ministry that have not been made by epilogues who have not been brought to the stage to sign contracts, to realize and to draw on these funds. That's what I was talking about, not who was making the calls. As far as the future is concerned, certainly with the new financial perspective in this area, we hope that we will be able to obtain a lot of resources and that in this area we will devote a lot of attention and activities to energy recovery, so that we can make further progress in the coming years from European funds, from buildings and from active energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u161	Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u162	Because apparently the minister and I didn't understand each other or maybe someone doesn't want to understand. You were talking about 108 projects – yes, but it was the first call, Minister, and I asked you what was with this second call that was published in March. It was expected that after May 1st things would go into effect. The municipalities – I think you said about the 202 congregations that signed up for this invitation – are asking or waiting for who will be chosen, how will they be chosen, how much will they get, and when will they be able to work, they are interested. And those who have been selected in the first invitation to tender, with which the contracts are signed on your part, have this concern, but I am interested in the second invitation to tender. I therefore propose that a debate be held at the next meeting. I have already promised you that if I do not get some concrete commitments, when this will happen, because I was very exact last time and today: if the contracts are not yet signed, when can we expect the municipalities to have the opportunity — the ones chosen — to sign the contracts. Since I have not received this reply, Madam Vice-President, I propose that the next meeting be held to discuss the Minister's response. Then perhaps the question of what someone in your ministry is doing is also raised. Minister, I believe you're not personally responsible for everything, you're just the summit that should coordinate your services to work. And, Madam Minister, I hope that representatives of your ministry will not be on vacation for two months, but you will also give them enough work during the summer time to meet us in September and perhaps at the September session we will have a quality debate on the issue of many Slovene municipalities. I hope that, at this time, this government will not come to the conclusion that it will want this congregation, which we wanted to help them in the previous term, even to end. Madam Vice-President, I propose a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministers, nice greeting! There is no Minister today, but I think the question is so urgent that it is right to put it orally. The problems in our health care are not from today, not from yesterday. For more than 10 years, we have known that we are facing serious systemic problems in this area, and since Dr. Keber, as the Minister of State, has done a comprehensive analysis of our health system — you will not believe — it has been more than 10 years. Since then, there has been virtually no health minister who would not have tried with so-called changes to the system laws, but nothing has happened until today. The situation we are in today is also worse given the perceived systemic deficits due to the economic crisis. The fact is, the number of unemployed has already increased to 120 000 and, of course, the unemployed do not pay into the health treasury. Thus, the scissors are more open every day between the needs and the resources we have at our disposal. Mr Minister himself has repeatedly pointed out that, due to the health situation, it is imperative that measures be taken to clear the current financial hole that we have actually fallen into, and that this should be the first measure to address health problems, which should be followed by changes to the system's laws. Mr Minister himself has drafted the so-called intervention law, which, of course, means that we would intervene with it decisively and influence the event in the Slovenian healthcare area. This intervention law referred to the extension on the one hand of the contribution bases for the payment of health contributions in principle each income is considered and, on the other hand, contributions from different categories of insurers should also be offset. The differences in insurance contributions are known to be huge, 1:10. If we pay about EUR 2 000 400 per year, those we call the other categories, including family members, are only 240. That is why, of course, it is essential that we make all these changes, but we have not met them. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking: Where is the intervention law or law on amendments and additions to the Health and Insurance Act? Do you and when do you intend to make a marriage, since we will no longer have a session until autumn? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. So you would like an oral answer at the next meeting, Mrs. Andreja Črnak Meglič. So Mr Gantar will respond to the next oral meeting. We are moving on to the next question. Mrs Sonja Ramšak will ask the Minister of Defence Mr Roman Jakič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In early July, we were informed by the representative Union of the Army, Defence and Protection that strange things were happening in the Slovenian Army, namely that professional members of the Slovenian Army, including mothers with young children and pregnant women, were being dismissed. That forgiveness is to be carried out despite your assurance and the assurance of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces that these pardons will not occur. In the Slovenian Army, there is supposed to be forgiveness in a way that involves covert forgiveness, which we both know very well, which means that there is no extension of the employment contract with professional members and members. The union, as well as the Chief of General Staff, also makes clear that on the other hand you do not carry out the pardons of officers, officers and military personnel, but that the target is only professional soldiers and soldiers. Some soldiers are even expected to perform after 100 hours and more of the workload, and the union therefore considers that there is indeed a shortage of professional soldiers and soldiers and that, of course, there is a lack of respect for labour legislation, as hours are not paid in accordance with the relevant legislation. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Have you and the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army already provided a written answer to the questions raised by the Military, Defence and Protection Union? At least: How many members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have been fired or have they been terminated or cancelled employment contracts in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, of course, indicating the reason for the termination of the employment contract? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u167	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u168	Vice-President, distinguished colleague Ramshakov, thank you very much for the question. I'm also from the Military Union, defense and protection 1. 7. As with the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the Defence Committee of the National Assembly and the Ombudsman, he received a protest and a request for clarification regarding the alleged dismissal of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. It was possible to conclude from the letter that this was a discriminatory human resources policy. The letter also lists three specific cases of members to whom a notice of termination of contracts has been sent. But first let me express my respect and admiration for all members of the Slovenian Army, soldiers, officers and officers who carry out their work in the Slovenian Army with great dedication and responsibility not only at home, but also in missions abroad. I believe that there are no reasons for the personnel policy in the Slovenian Army to be carried out in a discriminatory manner, which is why I have, and this is part of the answer, ordered the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces to prepare more detailed explanations on the cases cited by the union itself or you mentioned them in your question. As you know, the Slovenian Armed Forces Staff Plan sets out the basic starting points for human resources policy and principles for the enforcement of a competent model in the field of employment, scholarship, distribution, promotion and promotion, foreign service, military education and training, recognition, extension of contracts and departures from the Slovenian Army. Through transparent human resources processes and procedures and staff management tasks, the human resources policy must ensure its development of the organisation and career paths of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, improve the human resources structure, of course also ensure adequate excellence, in particular the vital capacity of the military. This year's Slovenian Armed Forces Human Resources Policy is focused on the process of transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We have informed you about this on the competent parent body and in this transformation also about the implementation of their new structure. Among others, the Slovenian Armed Forces Staff Plan also sets out a contract extension policy for 2013. This policy stipulates that, in addition to meeting the conditions laid down in the rules, the employment contracts are extended taking into account the needs of the service and the criteria of the service assessment — these are two conditions — and the extension of contracts takes into account the average of the service ratings of the last three years, with members who have an average service rating of the last three years — saying that this average is "satisfying" — having an average estimate of the last three years of the driving capacity test "satisfactory" — both are not renewed. If you'll let me answer your question, if I don't finish now, I'll be in round two. From 1. 1. 2013 to 30. 6. In 2013, the employment contract was extended to 254 members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and from 1. 1. 2013 to 5. Seven. 2013 41 members and members have not been extended employment contracts. Of these, there were 9 members and 32 members of the Slovenian Army. The main reasons for non-resistance were: safety reservations, official evaluations according to the 2013 criteria of the Staff Plan, medical reasons, real limitations, own desire, failure to meet the conditions of the athlete – you know that we have 70 athletes and athletes – and a soldier after 45 years, which we must do according to the law [[...]] With regard to the data on which you ask, the following are: one is the termination of the employer's employment contract, which was 8 members in 2010 to 2013. in 2010, one member, the reason was the failure to meet the conditions, the real security reservation; 2011 two members, one disciplinary measure, one unjustified absence from work; 2012 four members, one negative service assessment in the last two years, two unscheduled basic military training and one unjustified absence from work; and 2013 one member, unjustified absence [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] If you want, I'll continue in round two. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u169	Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for that first part of your answer. So I would say that it is obvious, given that we have been dealing with several letters of unions, such and other, about the problems in the Slovenian Army, which are certainly affected by this transformation or reorganisation, as you said, by the Slovenian Armed Forces, I would add that I have already repeatedly warned that each year or every other year there is a reorganisation within the Ministry of Defence, which certainly also has a negative impact on the organisational and especially humane climate in the Ministry of Defence. And let the Minister, what I received earlier on my e-mail, take a look at the words of someone from the Slovenian Army. I know it's a person who knows the situation well, so let me just read: "With people transforming their work like pumpkins, they first completed 132nd Mountain Company with people from Styria and Koroška, which was settled in Celje by tomorrow, and now someone has invented and moved this company to Ljubljana tomorrow. Then they trumpet that in the spirit of rationalisation they are moving people closer to home, and now they will drive from Koroška and from Maribor to Ljubljana." And all this, Mr Minister, of course, is not what the Slovenian Army is supposed to take on, which is primarily for the human being and his concern for the individual or the member. Of course, I expect you to give another answer in this direction as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u171	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u172	Mrs Ramshakova, you know for yourself that – and I have said this repeatedly – in the reorganisation and last transformation of the Slovenian Army I did not intervene professionally, I came to the Ministry on 22 March this year when this transformation was in its final stage. However, I said that after the construction of the Slovenian Army on 15 May, when this transformation was formally completed, we will now look very carefully at whether there were any deviations or problems in this transformation. Of course, what you are alerting us to will be taken into account very much. Such letters as you receive, I also receive as Minister, and every time I warn the Chiefs of Staff and the General Staff themselves to see whether or not the evidence from these letters is held. In view of the fact that you have asked questions about forgiveness, I would nevertheless add to the statistics that say that it was not extended this year to 12 members – or from 2010 to 2013 – 12 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces; that is, because of the failure of military professional training, because of health restrictions, service assessments, six times of health restrictions and three times of service in 2013. Finally, I must say that you yourself know that the Staff Plan predicted a reduction in the number of Slovenian Armed Forces and Slovenian Armed Forces members from 7 thousand 400, as we now have, to 7 thousand 109, and that the budget balance was still my starting point, as you said at the end – man. That is why we have only reduced by 1% and in fact retained a larger number of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, despite the fact that, according to the personnel plan, we should reduce by almost 300, which of course does not mean that this will not be questioned next year, but nevertheless is an agreement that we had, including an agreement made by Minister Virant with the social partners, that there will be no forgiveness for business reasons. We have also taken this into account in the Slovenian Army, but once again I stress that regardless of the above, we will not extend the employment contracts to all those members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who will not meet the criteria of the law and the acts of command, command in the military, and these are the criteria that I mentioned earlier why 9 members were cancelled, 8 members from 2010 to 2013, the contract of employment cancelled by the employer. But they're not just members like I said, they're also members. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Nine girls and 42 boys. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramshak, you may have a request, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u174	Yes, the Prime Minister and the Minister. I think that things are actually happening in the Slovenian Army that require a broader debate, and I am not only thinking about human resources matters, but also about what you mentioned – budgetary resources. We know that you have reduced the budget in the Ministry by €22 million. Unfortunately, last time you weren't at the board meeting, you couldn't hear our discussions as well. I will also take this opportunity to somehow give the initiative to bring together all representative unions, the Ministry's leadership and the Defence Committee, and to also have a broader debate on the issue in the Ministry and the Slovenian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u175	Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 11 July 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Jožef Horvat to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary-General of the Government! Honourable Vice-President of the Slovenian Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec! On 3 July this year, the Committee on Foreign Policy agreed to place particular emphasis on the importance of the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union in the new declaration of Slovenian foreign policy. The draft document states, inter alia: "Strengthening our activities in the European Union and building strategic partnerships with integration countries suggest that we become a recognizable Member State, which through its activities creates an atmosphere of active development of common European policies within the EU institutions, contributes to the substantive design of the common European foreign and security policy, strengthens the positive attitude towards EU enlargement with new members, has an active attitude towards the integration of Slovenian citizens into the employment policy of the EU institutions, strictly ensures that Slovenian experts are employed in the most responsible places in the European Union. In the debate on the future institutional organisation of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia will actively participate under the slogan More European Union, more Slovenia, as Slovenia's interest is such an institutional organisation of the EU, which will preserve our sovereignty and guarantee to the European Union such economic development as will restore economic and monetary stability to integration and thereby to Slovenia." That text, Mr Minister, I sincerely welcome, but it must be implemented and applied as soon as possible and consistently as possible. Especially at a time when the European Union has problems and is increasingly in Slovenia, unfortunately even among the current coalition policies, there are statements about stepmother's Europe Crepa and the function of bringing malicious confusion between citizens, who will certainly never be an alternative to the European Union, as Yugoslavia is no longer and Yugoslavia will never be. Mr. Minister, given your extremely valued mileage in the world of ministers, I have the hope for you and therefore ask you: What concrete measures do you intend to propose to the Slovenian Government to strengthen European consciousness and the European spirit in Slovenian institutions and among citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you for your first part of the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Minister, Mr. Karl Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, thank you for the question to the Member of Parliament. I must say that I am not concerned about the European Union and Slovenia, because all Eurobarometer surveys also show that Slovenians support the European Union, that we feel European and that we are also very well informed about the most important things that are happening within the European Union. However, I understand this concerns the general situation, which is not the result of membership in the European Union, but is more due to the situation of an individual member. I think that the problems that Slovenia is facing right now, in particular economic, financial problems, also have an impact on the view of the European Union and some other countries, such as Greece, Italy, Spain, where some also have doubts about the European Union, are facing these problems. I am convinced that we have to do our homework, carry out structural reforms, rescue banks, and there will be even more optimism among Slovenians as regards the European Union. I don't see any fear of the former state either. You know that the former republics, which are now independent countries, are also seeking to become full members of the European Union. It has recently become Croatia, Serbia has started or will start negotiations in January 2014, so there is no fear, especially for those who fear that Yugoslavia will return or that some in Slovenia want to import as much Yugoslavia as possible. Yugoslavia is gone, and after that fear, I don't think there's any need. In particular, I would like to point out that the second year will be 10 years of our membership in the European Union. I think that this anniversary should also be used to raise awareness of our citizens and citizens, especially of what the European Union brings to youth. The second year is also the European Parliament's parliamentary elections in May. I think this is also an excellent opportunity for policy to promote the European idea, which is the result of World War II and the ongoing wars on the European continent. I think that after this European integration, which is today called the European Union, has been established, this is the longest period we have ever lived in peace. Exceptions are only events in the 1990s in the Western Balkans and also in our territory. We are also celebrating the European Year of Citizens this year. I must say, there are certain initiatives going on here. We will have 11 round tables this year and next year. For example, in the autumn, we will have a debate on the future of young people in the European Union for the young Blah Strategic Forum, which is dedicated to young people. This will also be a very interesting panel with international participation, because I think it is particularly important for young people to consolidate this awareness of the advantages of the European Union. Also on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we keep the public informed about what is actually going on. Dear Member, I hope you will give me an additional question so that I can complete my thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u180	Of course, I'd love to, Mr. Secretary. Just because I said I have some hope and I believe that you are that minister in the government, even the Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, I may expect more, which encourages the entire government and Slovenian policy to strengthen the European spirit on Slovenian soil. Although you are the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, as such, understand best the mission of the European Union and the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, I am interested, Mr Minister: In terms of more Europe on Slovenian soils and more Slovenia in Europe, what measures will you propose to the Government in relation to the urgent additions – true necessary additions to my belief – to educational programmes in Slovenian primary and secondary schools? I myself understand the institutions of the European Union – I believe you too – as well as well-intentioned; those who want the good of Slovenia. Thus, I do not take so tragically yesterday's statements by Commissioner Rehn that the situation in Slovenia is serious, that the time is running out, that the leader of the Eurogroup Diesselbloem is waiting for the results in October and that Finance Minister Mario Fecter is personally interested in how Slovenia is doing. But these are warnings that are well-intentioned, that in some way they must also encourage us to take decisive measures that will be better for Slovenian citizens. Of course, I was talking about the confusion that some politicians are introducing among Slovenian citizens: both from the National Assembly, when it comes to Europe as a stepmother, when it comes to Angela Merkel, who is squeezing Europe and also Slovenia, and I would not like to be at the expense of Mrs Alenka Bratušek when she talks to Chancellor Angelo Merkel on Friday, and I hope that you will not also talk about singing a famous song in the Stožice. You are a wise man and you were not there, so please do everything in your power for more Europe in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you. If we want more Europe in Slovenia, we will have to do more ourselves. We know what it's like to draw on European funds. I don't think Europe is our stepmother here. The next financial perspective for 2014-2020 provides somehow 4 billion additional resources that we can use in order to have more prosperity. I am convinced, as far as the European Union is concerned, that this is the only perspective for Slovenia as a small country that can be very successful in terms of its resources. Here I am referring to the human potential, to natural resources and also to the geostrategic situation, and I repeatedly repeat that I also get within the European Union many times from fellow ministers the question of how it can be that Slovenia is in such troubles as Slovenia has. You know that in 2008 we successfully carried out the Presidency of the European Council, which was assessed as very successful. I think some of these dark clouds are just gonna have to be overcome. Of course, the European Union is also forcing us to be more orderly, to respect regulations, regulations and if we do so, then I am sure that we are looking forward to better times. As far as education is concerned. Here I must say that they are already taking place in primary schools, including in secondary schools, certain programmes. For example, we also have a special manual for teachers concerning the European Union, so that this education takes place in these schools and we have Europe in schools. Of course, this is all too little, and therefore the policy must also engage in the sense of giving positive messages and also meeting the expectations of other members of the European Union towards Slovenia. Second year, as we say, we have European elections. The first were 2004, second in 2009, but unfortunately we saw that very low electoral participation, which is also a general European trend, is why the debate with foreign ministers on the future of the European Union is parallel. Do we want her to be more connected, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I am sorry, the time is running out, but the Committee on Foreign Policy will be able to discuss these issues in the framework of the starting point for a new Slovenian external strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Branko Kurnjek will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. That's a nice hello to you all. Dear Minister, Dr. Griltz. The fact is that in Slovenia we still do not have a regulated system of film labelling for children in cinematographers, although we are indirectly committed to this by the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse. We are also committed to respect the European Commission Declaration on the Protection of Juveniles. That's why I want to know: Does the Ministry of Culture plan a legal arrangement for the marking of the age of films in cinemas? This would eliminate the unenviable position of Slovenia, which, in relation to the protection and information of children, adolescents and their guardians, is one of the few countries in Europe that have ignored the regulation of publicly displayed audiovisual content from this point of view. I would like to point out that the aim of labelling the appropriateness of publicly displayed films or the wider availability of audiovisual content is not and should not be any form of censorship or an absolute ban on viewing, but rather is to indicate appropriateness in particular with regard to the information of children and adolescents and, of course, the guidance of parents and their guardians. It's basically the right to information. Only on the basis of information can informed parents decide whether or not to recommend a movie to their child. Since this option is not available now, this means that the titles of movies with potential viewers or parents or guardians can also be manipulated or manipulated. Inadequate films can now be broadcast at any time, including afternoons, motherhood, which allows for a self - examination of young people and children. For example, as a solution, it might be wise to consider the labelling system, as already prescribed and applied to broadcast content on television — one option. Labels on the appropriateness of content should be indicated at each occurrence of the title of each film – whether it is adverts, adjectives in cinematographs, adverts in print and electronic media, on audio-visual content carriers, for example. DVDs and stuff. Although I am aware that the purpose of audio-visual content transmission in cinematographers, on television, DVDs and other earners is to do much for children and their proper development. That's why I'm asking you again, Mr. Minister: Can we expect in due course any shift towards protecting the development of those who are the future of this society? Healthy companies without healthy individuals [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Urosh Grillz. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u186	Dear Members! Thank you very much, thank you very much. As Mr Branko Kurnjek rightly points out, the public presentation of audio-visual content in terms of the protection of children and adolescents is adequately addressed in television programmes and other audio-visual media services on request, based on the Audio-visual Media Services Act. In the framework of this Act it is precisely defined which content must not be played and for which content it is necessary to choose the appropriate time to play. The law specifically defines measures to access audio-visual content that could seriously harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and minors, in cases where the distribution of these content is also possible through audio-visual media services on demand. The fact is that these media services are one of the increasingly popular ways of distributing and viewing film or programming content on demand in addition to cinematographic distribution. In this respect, we believe that the Ministry has taken appropriate measures in this part to protect children and minors from publicly broadcast content in television programmes and audio-visual services on a request that is not suitable for a certain age level. This is particularly important because children who are minors are exposed to these contents as soon as they sit in front of a television station or an appropriate electronic device. In the case of cinematographic films, however, this method is different, since it implies buying a ticket, and again, this is the intention of a child accompanied by an older person to watch this or them movie. Children's and youth films in cinematographic distribution are already defined both in content and in genre terms and in better cinemas according to the recommended age level. To a certain extent, potential viewers are already aware of the appropriateness of the film for children and young people, including the announcements and announcements by distributors and broadcasters and media announcements. A very common way of distributing and displaying children's and young people's films is also a structured programme in the way of subscription in cinematographs and special programming sets for children's and young people's films, which is one of the most popular opportunities for viewing such films, as it is often associated with an accompanying teaching programme. Such sets are known by a number of displays, in particular by the Art Cinema Network, which combines 25 cinematographers across the demographicly highly dispersed territory of Slovenia. It is also possible to follow links from the announcements of films in the regular cinema distribution on other websites where the films are marked according to comparability for certain age periods already defined. These announcements present a genre, such as horror movie, action film, drama, production label, for which the age rate of the film is appropriate, a gaming session and so on. To conclude the content and suitability of the film only on the basis of the title is, of course, too little, which applies to all film as well as other works from different fields of art. However, your question is very much in place and the Ministry is aware that due to greater transparency and clarity and to the experience of some other countries, a system of pre-classification of cinematographic works intended exclusively for the protection of children as particularly vulnerable categories should be introduced as a recommendation to parents or older people when choosing films for children and adolescents. At this point, the ministry is carefully examining different labelling systems and it may be good if I briefly touch at least some key ones. One of the interesting things is, of course, the American system, where self-regulation is concerned. There is no law that would determine this, but there is a specific body that assigns labels on the appropriate age level of viewers for a particular film, consisting of industry representatives, viewers, parents, educators and each film are evaluated accordingly. In cinematographers, it is up to them to decide whether or not to show a movie. In short, the United States does not know any law that regulates this area, yet most cinematographers do not take the film into play if it has not been properly rated or marked by a classification scale. At the same time, it is necessary to know that this is an informal system designed to protect children by the age of 15. Some of the European countries have much more regulated systems. One of them, Swedish, is entrusted to a special world. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]] But I'll add something if I get another question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u187	Here you go, Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Thank you for explaining. I'm pleased to hear your recent statements that the Ministry is responding to this issue. You have correctly determined that certain addresses can mislead both parents and children. Otherwise, I would not like to publicize such films or publicly present titles here, but, for example, you may have some horror — not long ago it was spinning in cinemas where there was a completely generic expression and there was no way that we could conclude on the content itself. Or, say, a similar movie with a generic address where the content was talking about violence against children. And if we picture a child in front of us watching a movie like this, we know what this can mean for children to develop. Once again, I do not imagine that there would be any prohibition of sightseeing in the sense of 'you can't', but it is really awareness-raising. Perhaps only labelling with certain signs, of course in all phenomenal forms, i.e., in the media, all the printing, on the announcements, on the newsstands, etc., should be mandatory, but the regulation itself of the visit of cinematographers is likely to be impractical. I really hope that you will present at the Ministry as soon as possible a proposal for a law that will regulate these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much for the added challenge. I would like to give two more examples of how this is regulated in the neighbouring countries, in European countries. In Austria, films are classified by the Commission of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Education, Art and Culture, which makes an age recommendation for each individual film, defining its suitability for less than 6 years, 10, 12, 14 and 16 years. In France, permission to play the film must be given, and this is actually about permission, and in cinematography, the operator must obtain the permission to play the film before the show begins. The licence, issued by the Minister for Culture and Media on the basis of a recommendation from his advisory body. Let me immediately say that in this case, such an arrangement where the Minister would issue permits does not seem appropriate. In particular, as my colleague, Mr Virant, is with me, we know that such a way would also lead to a large-scale official apparatus and thus certain public financial consistencys that we cannot afford. Therefore, the Ministry, together with the Slovenian Film Centre, the public agency, as well as with the distributors, is exploring how to design a system that would be effective to bring transparent and useful solutions, especially for parents. We intend to regulate this subject in the law on the Slovenian Film Centre, which will come in the parliamentary section in the autumn. I very much agree that we are looking for a solution in the direction of the right to information, that we are looking for a way that will be able to apply this right in the direction of promoting quality film production and that will, of course, build towards the development of film culture. This one is very important. Of course, it is also one of those that is very accessible, so this question seems so much more important to us and I thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Secretary-General of the Government of Mrs Tanji Sharabon, and by Dr Gregor Virant, Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary-General, Minister! My question in general should be addressed to Madam President of the Government, because she is the direct leader of the Owl, but I hope that I will get the answers. It is an obvious abuse of the Owl for political purposes and with severe political implications. There was a 1 in the newspaper, Delo. 7. published article Refreshing the Owl from under the peres of journalist Karbe, which is written as a sort of summary of the closed session and a summary of the visits of the Commission for the supervision of the Information and Security Services in Owl. Now I don't remember ever, long ago, being the president of such misused visits that secret meetings would be misused. In these indications, all these indications are contrary to the facts or at least strongly modified. It is therefore clear that this planned information from intelligence services with a view to political intrigue and discredit is a political option. Of course it's political abuse. The article reports on the supervision of Dr. Andre Kurnik by the former director, which is also a lie. Those of course who were members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in the 2000-2004 mandate know that this matter has long-standing beardedness and that there are completely different facts regarding hearings. That's why I'm asking: Whether the government has been trying to spread information through the Owl, which is quite the opposite of the truth, and has been trying to corrupt and defame part of the uprising movement led by Mr Kurnik, against the current opposition or perhaps even wider [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] with a so-called uprising? [[...]] I want to know: Who authorized the insinuation of a certain journalist? Does the government support such misuse of intelligence services or the use of Udba methods in the work of the Soviet Union? And then I'm gonna ask you some more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. The Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant, will answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. When we talk about the intelligence and security agency, I kind of come from the principle, it's less. I do not think it is good to talk about these matters in public, but it is better to discuss these matters at meetings of the Commission for the Control of the Intelligence and Security Services, which are closed to the public and so on. As Minister of the Interior, I can only say that I support the legitimate functioning of the Owl, i.e. acting within the framework of the law governing its operation, and that I do not comment in principle on the newspaper articles, because I do not think that this is part of the political mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u196	Yeah. Firstly, I protest because the President of the Government is the Prime Minister of the Owl, and in this case Mrs Secretary-General should answer. I wanted to ask you, Mr. Minister, because these special methods are also used in the criminal service with orders: Was there also an instruction or something similar to abuse of these services for political purposes? I've had a lot of experience controlling intelligence, I've been a member many times, and something like this hasn't happened. This affair that has been revealed here in the newspaper — not to tell us that we are trying and asking. These matters, such abuses and such affairs need to be cleaned up in a public place. For this matter, which the services have used to spread these misinformations, untruths for political purposes, also tells many things about the genetics of the Rode affair. I would also like to know, Madam Secretary-General: What does the government support such refreshments in Owl? The article discusses the refreshments in Owl with the aim of using the methods of audiences and such transformations of the Owl. I also want to know: In accordance with Article 24, paragraph 5, has Sova informed the person mentioned in the article about the modified material?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u198	Since this second part of the question referred to potential abuse of the police for political purposes, then I can ensure with full responsibility that it is not and will not, but that the police have a very clear orientation to operate in all segments, in particular or criminal, exclusively professional and completely political; or, in other words, that there are no sacred cows and that no police action should be in favour or biased in favour of or in the detriment of any political option, but must be strictly professional and neutral. That's what the police do. As far as the Owl is concerned, you have correctly determined that she is its chairman, so the chairman of the Owl is, of course, the director. The Director is directly responsible to the President of the Government, and I also doubt that the Secretary-General of the Government can answer any questions about the Owl. If there were any suspicion about the media records, any signs that would justify the suspicion of criminal service, the police would react on their own. There's no need to give her any kind of instruction for this, so I can give her any kind of instruction. The police monitor these things and react when necessary. Once again, I think that commenting on newspaper articles is not a political task. I sometimes find it hard to believe that a medium can write something like that down. Even when I'm alone, let's say I'm affected by some kind of record, but look, this is our job, we have to take it out and let the media do their job, and we do our job. I will say again, however, if I show in any media record any sign that a crime has been committed, such as by leaking classified information and so on, the police will, of course, react.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you. Here you are, Mr Jerovšek, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u200	So far, I've been convinced that we have a Secretary General of the Government who can do his job. I specifically asked for answers twice. I didn't get that. And, of course, deterring the core of an affair is if the competent are not prepared to respond. I, too, Mr Minister, agree with you that it is very sad that such an article with completely distorted facts, with lies, with a view to political discrediting certain persons is a political option. It is my view that the uprising movement should be directed against the current opposition, because the said gentleman is the leader of these protest movements for a long time, and it is therefore totally unacceptable to put our heads in the sand. What has happened is also an attempt to discredit the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. I have been the chairman of this commission for four years – there was no breaking news from Members! I am also sure of this, because if it had been, it would have been the truth that was spoken of on the committee and on the Owl. But here are completely distorted facts, framed by the Commission in some way. However, I know so much about matters and activities that this has come from intelligence services, the political responsibility is, of course, in the Government, and we must also clear this serious affair in Parliament. We can avoid all names, we can close the session, I will request the adjournment of the meeting if necessary, but of course we must deal with this in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure and clear up, because this is too much of what happened. How evil information is placed in the public domain is important for the country, which I think should also remain closed to the public, but has consciously made itself a construct with clear political implications and purposes. So, we need to discuss this, if necessary, we will also discuss it in a closed session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the context of the next session. Now we continue with the questions. Mag. Stefan Tessel will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u202	Good bye to all of you! Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Ministers, Secretary-General, Members and Members of Parliament! About 30 smaller quarryes in Slovenia are threatened with closure by the end of 2013. A law or amendment to the Mining Act was introduced and was rejected at the previous meeting in June and the procedure was halted because in 2010, a law was passed which imposed on smaller quarryers or all quarryers some new duties or re-enactment of a concession for further operation and a specific date, July 2012, when they would be closed down by quarryes who would not have new or new conditions. Last year, following an urgent procedure, a law or amendment of the Mining Act, which extended that date until the end of 2013, and, of course, we are again close to this, because the law, as I mentioned, which somehow envisaged this amendment, was rejected. This is the case for about thirty quarryes, which are in different environments in Slovenia and which are highly dependent on their use, including craftsmen, construction workers and all; otherwise, the matter will become irritable, and the closure of two smaller quarryes and the role of monopoly in this area are also threatening. That is why, Minister Samo Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, I ask you: When do you plan to amend the Mining Act, which also depends on the continued operation of many smaller quarryes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u204	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, Mr Tessel, thank you for the question. Indeed, the existing law has a number of shortcomings, and at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space we are preparing a bill that will address key shortcomings, particularly in this segment, so that quarryes can operate smoothly. It is planned that the government will arrive in September with the proposed hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u205	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his constructive response. I hope that this law will be adopted by the end of the year, because we would expect this extension to happen again, because we know that it is a number of segments, both for the spatial plans of the municipalities, some are already at the place and others are only at the start and can take years to adopt these municipal spatial plans and detailed spatial plans, which is a condition for obtaining the concession again. In 2009, the government also adopted a state mineral management programme, which provided that a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials could be issued only if at least 30,000 cubic metres per year and at least 15 years of raw materials could be issued. At the same time, it is also a rehabilitation of old quarryes, which would have stayed somewhere in the middle of the rehabilitation if this transitional period had not been extended. Thanks again for the answer. I expect that if there is no law in due course, that is to say, by the end of 2013, it will be accepted to at least bridge this content again for the next few years so that these quarryes can obtain the right conditions for concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Tessel. Don't you want to, Minister, supplement? All right, then I'll just keep going. Mr Borut Ambrožič is next to raise a question, namely, to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, everyone! Madam Minister, let me first point out some eloquent information relating to the issue, which relates to the issue itself. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of unemployed persons is highest in 2013 after 1993. In the first quarter of this year it was 111 thousand and in May it was 118,576 registered unemployed. Unfortunately, the highest unemployment rate was among young people or between the ages of fifteen and twenty-four and was 23.3% in the first quarter of 2013. Acid comfort, in a cynical sense, is also, of course, the fact that the unemployment rate in the European Union or the euro states is the highest so far, and in these countries there are already 19.38 million unemployed people without work. My question therefore relates to the employer's obligation to inform the other unelected candidates that they have not been selected after the 8-day operation law after the signature of the contract with the selected candidate. Let us leave aside that the candidate who has submitted his offer of cooperation to the potential employer and is not invited to an interview within one month may conclude that there will be no bread from this meal, since it is a more absorbing fact of despair and a sense of inferiority for each individual who is experiencing this waiting for the employer to respond, whether it is positive or negative. The law itself provides that the parties to the employment contract are both workers on the one hand and employers on the other. However, we must ask ourselves whether employers are aware of their stronger roles with workers. The experience in the field, as well as the data of employees in employment institutions facing such desperate workers or search engines, is indicative of an alarming situation. Slovenia is already considered a country with a high degree of depression, suicide and the like. Is it not now in the country to take care of the trauma and mental problems faced by many searching works and to find answers to their roles? One solution is also offered by the ZDR, which does not even mention the method of notification of indiscriminateness, which means that the waiting person could also receive an answer via e-mail. That's why I'm asking the Minister: But the ministry is considering a strategy? Does it have a strategy in place regarding infringements by employers who do not notify unelected candidates of indiscriminateness for a particular job? Is he considering solving this social or work - related problem? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. Even to all the others present a nice greeting from me! It is stressful for young people or anyone applying for a job to not get an answer. The previous Labour Relations Act may have been somewhat vague – i.e. it stipulated that within 8 days of the completion of the selection procedure, the employer was obliged to notify the unelected candidate in writing that he had not been selected. However, it was later raised in particular whether this should be interpreted as having been taken into account after the conclusion of the working relationship with the chosen one, or after the completion of the procedure. Those were the dilemmas. We have now written this more clearly with the new Labour Relations Act, but we also wanted to listen to employers, of course, if they have 500, 000 or even more roles, which unfortunately is happening today too often, to give them the opportunity to implement this obligation through information technology. Therefore, it is now envisaged that within 8 days they should be informed, i.e. by electronic means, to the address previously agreed between the jobseekers and potential employers. If the employer does not inform the unelected candidate within 8 days of the completion of the selection procedure that he has not been selected, he shall be responsible for the offence for which the work inspector fines under Article 219 of the Labour Relations Act. The employer shall be fined between EUR 750 and EUR 2 000, a smaller employer with a fine of EUR 200 to thousands, an individual with a fine of EUR 100 to 800 and a responsible employer, a legal person and a responsible person in a public authority or a separate local community with a fine of EUR 100 to 800. I believe that criminal standards are clear, but at the same time this smaller bureaucratic obstacle, that in a modern society in the 21st century, this can also be done via an electronic address to allow employers to respect this and thus to receive an unchosen response, although unwelcome, in response to their role.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u212	Just thanking the secretary for the expected response. In fact, this institution is also intended to raise additional awareness of the public and, above all, it could be said to the public that this discriminatory situation, which, unfortunately, is still owed to a number of people in these days, will no longer arise. Now they know, or even in the future, if they turn to us so that they can turn or take advantage of this right that they are given by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the first round of questions sent. We continue or move on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. We will begin with the question of Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! In Slovenia we have clear legislation on the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement. Both the age condition and the working age condition are clearly defined. With some legal changes last year, we have introduced legal provisions in some areas where the mandatory retirement of those public servants who meet cumulatively both conditions is the age and number of years of work. I want to know: In what way do the competent services review and recognise working hours for persons who have worked in other republics of that country or in the federal authorities of that country during the previous period? In this regard, I am particularly interested in: Is your ministry, or has your competent services given any answer or received any question by the PIZ, the competent service is said to be able to account for this working period in relation to the letters sent by the PIZ to different ministries? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you for asking. Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. If you are asking me in particular about the recognition of the working age of those who have worked in the past in other republics of the Joint Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it should be pointed out here that Slovenia has concluded social insurance agreements with these, now with almost all the republics. Thus, the agreement with Croatia was concluded in 1997, with Macedonia in 2000, with Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2008, with Serbia in 2010 and Montenegro in 2010. The agreements we have concluded follow the general and in Europe the established rules for the coordination of social security systems, including, inter alia, the addition of insurance periods in different countries, taking into account when determining whether the conditions for obtaining rights are met. On the basis of these periods of insurance, each State shall then measure the proportionate part of the period completed under its rules and shall also pay a proportionate part of the pension for that part of the period. In practice, this means that among the competent insurers, for example, we have the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, that special forms are made to communicate to each other the complementary periods of insurance or integration into the national system. On the basis of the data obtained, each insurance institution shall calculate the proportional part of the pension paid directly to the beneficiary. The right to a pension shall be obtained when the conditions are met in each individual country, in accordance with its national rules. It should also be noted that the amount of the pension depends on the rules in force in the country which pays the pension in full or in proportion. However, as regards the pensions of former federal officials, it should be clarified that their pensions are paid in accordance with the agreement concluded with that State of the former SFRJ Republic in which the individual was employed. In doing so, it should also be noted that former federal staff are subject to the same treatment as all other insured persons. With regard to your second question, I can explain that the representatives of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office also participated in the negotiations for the conclusion of the Social Insurance Agreement and in the drafting of content in addition to the Ministry's professional services. Specifically, any instructions should be special or anything, at least I don't have that information, just what they gave me, and I believe that these procedures are going as they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Mate, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much again. I would like to ask a further question, of course I have a very specific case in mind. I am very pleased that you have listed all the agreements that have been adopted to describe how this is happening with the authorities operating at the federal level during the former country period, and of course I am pleased that you are advocating the principle of equal treatment – you have used these words. I am particularly happy about this because, by means of the constitutional law, we have assumed these obligations and have given all these people equal rights and responsibilities. The problem arises when we have employees in the Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia, there are 10 of them, one of them is 72 years old and is 46 years old and the ZPIZ has recently sent a letter a bad month ago informing the Ministry that the person is at least 31 years old. This year's 12th does not meet the conditions for retirement. At the same time, of course, some other employees are subject to some other rules. The question I raised last month to the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it very clear that ten such persons were employed by the Ministry. They are all in the highest ranking, their gross salaries are between €50 and €60,000 per year, which is about €600,000 per year. This is in the amount of wages that the foreign ministry has, and we could hear it at the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the rebalancing – in the amount of wages that the foreign ministry has at the annual level slightly over 15 million, that is 4% of the wages. For ten people who should be retired and for whom the country would have a significantly lower cost. What are you gonna do? In what way will you react and check how PIZ actually accounts and informs the competent institutions of the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you. Of course, I do not want and cannot comment on specific cases because I need to take a look at them first. There is a problem with some of the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that, in fact, those years that were recognised in Serbia or in that country that were working at that time not to apply for recognition of this age. In fact, it's not the same thing, but it's the non-recognition or recognition of that age. So if these people were working in the federal state at the time, but contributions were paid to the Serbian treasury, here is the difference between whether they were posted and there are some different interpretations of how the state of Slovenia should account for these obligations. Under the agreements concluded, these individuals are treated in the same way as anyone else. They must also play a role in the Serbian institution, as the Serbian institution then sends them a notice of how long they have to take care of it. We will certainly solve this problem. If you're saying there's ten people, there's a lot of money, there's got to be a solution. Perhaps later I can report on how it will be resolved. However, we cannot expect it to actually cover all these PPIZ cashiers. If there are exceptions, resources for these exceptions will have to be provided in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Mate, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u222	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we hold a broad debate on this. Last but not least, the Minister said that these matters must be clarified in order to bring the matter to a close. I strongly agree with that. But you need to know what this is really about. It is a rule-making matter and it is a matter of putting citizens in an unequal position. Some employees who have worked for most of their or all of their time in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Republic of Slovenia meet both conditions and automatically retire, regardless of where they are [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Personally, I have no problem with that. Other employees go to work for coffee and get a high salary just because we're in an official position, and I don't expect ministers to give anything, but everyone knows how many years they've worked there. More! Most of these people are in federal bodies – or all those who went to work for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of that country were posted there by the then Republic of Slovenia. There was no competition for jobs, there was a key, and we know how many years they worked there. It's not a stranger. The problem is big, because it is a large number of people, it is a large resource and it is primarily a principle of inequality before the law, it is a principle of people who are employed in the same body. I didn't mention any names, I just said the case that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs told us at the PSC's budget meeting. I'm not saying that this data is accurate until the month, because we got that information from the Foreign Ministry, and they have problems, and these people don't want to retire. Very simple, why? It is right that people know – simply citizens who retire get 300 or 500 euros in pensions. Because if they retire under these conditions and do not have that much working time in the Republic of Slovenia alone, they would get a little lower pension, I don't know, a hundred euros or 200 euros lower than the thousand 500 they will get. That's why they don't want to do it, and the state doesn't do anything to change that state. This situation hasn't been going on since yesterday, it's been going on for almost a year. I really want to know: What will we do about it? I would therefore like to discuss this in order to find a solution, because if we discuss this, we will find a solution faster. It's very simple! If not, it will be just one more question that will be forgotten, put under the rug and that is why I am dragging it, started at the previous meeting, continued in this one and will continue in the next sessions with questions. Of course, they'll be more and more concrete. I propose that we hold this debate and that we find such solutions that people will not be able to make laws on the side of the ear and thus try to secure higher pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, as part of the vote. The following question will be raised by Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, who is excused for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Minister! My question is for the Minister of Health. On 7 May, the Commission published findings on its online portal on the suspicion of corrupt behaviour of responsible persons of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana in the implementation of the paediatric cardiosurgery programme, which makes them so mag. Darinka Miklavčič as former Director General and thus responsible person UKC Ljubljana and mag. Simon Vrhunetec as Director-General and thus responsible person of UKC Ljubljana in concluding contracts for operations of children on the heart in the Ljubljana Clinical Centre violated the obligation to act in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. In the opinion of KPK, both investigators were to give Israel’s surgeon Mishaly one million 246 thousand 114.44 euros in earnings for 150 operational days or 358 operations during the period from October 2007 to December 2011 with the conclusion of an author’s contract instead of a contract of engagement, acting as if Dr Mishaly’s surgeon was not licensed. The internal audit investigation, which was determined in the UKC at the request of Mr Vrhunc, pointed out that that surgeon must have an appropriate licence, which led to the suspension of operations for a period of three months. During that time, Dr Mishaly obtained an appropriate licence, and negotiations were held on the value of the operational intervention and, according to Mr Vrchunc, a legal contract was concluded which no one could challenge. As was the case with contractual obligations, two domestic surgeons should also be trained to perform demanding operational activities. Unfortunately, one of the trained surgeons has gone abroad and the other has already carried out a large part of the program alone and also according to Dr. Mishaly’s assessment correctly. We are all committed to the legality of the functioning of all institutions and, above all, to transparent spending of taxpayers' money, but when saving human lives, in particular children's lives, the question arises whether human life is, in particular, childish, first or second interests. Dear Minister, I ask you: Does it argue that there is a difference between the price of operational interventions carried out under the paediatric cardiosurgery programme by Mishaly in UKC Ljubljana and between the price or costs of such interventions abroad, a significant difference in favour of the domestic programme? At least: What is the difference in the value or value of these interventions if they are carried out at home or abroad? And also: Has anyone or any responsible person taken advantage of these contracts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much for the question. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you will receive an answer. We continue with Mr Andrej Chuš, who will raise the question of the Member of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space to Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, it is not likely for the first time that we are already discussing this issue of the motorway section Drazenci-Gruškovje. Why did I even decide to ask that question? Actually, I have to say, I was satisfied with your final answers. I get the feeling that you're aware of the problem and that you understand it and you're also supporting the solution in this direction. In fact, you've already presented me with a specific timeline of activity. I got a feeling something was going to happen out of this to keep it going. In the final stage I also got the feeling that you are aware of the conditions of poor infrastructure in the lower Podravje. But I've had some doubts or negative signals from the field in recent days. In fact, the towing horse of the government of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Mišič, announced the acceleration of the construction of the Markovec tunnel and links to Croatia. I have received several initiatives from the field to ask this question: Will the funds for the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section also be used to build the Markovec tunnel and the nearby road links against Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u228	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr. Chus, thank you for asking. I must say, you're very nice to me, taking care of this department, and that's exactly the way it is. It's nice for someone to make sure that our projects are running, and it's monitoring exactly whether they're going the way we promised or not. I must say that we have given particular attention to Slovenian roads in planning the budget's rebalancing. This segment, both in maintenance and in investment, has somehow been assessed as one of the extremely sensitive and therefore we have increased funds, especially in roads – and I speak here mainly in state roads – in some ways. In the specific case of the section Drazenci-Gruškovje we still remain in the position already presented. So the project is by no means compromised and has no connection to the Markovac tunnel. Predor Markovac is in the construction phase and in fact the concessionaire provides for this part of the fund. However, the Drazenci-Gruškovje section itself is concerned with earmarked resources for which there are no changes in the proposed budget balance. Thus, concerns are exaggerated and the priority in this section remains, as has been presented, I think twice or three times in your questions in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to the last question of today, namely, Mr Borut Ambrožič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Dr Anji Kopač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you again for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings again to the minister and to all present! My question is this: Is the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities prepared for the preparation and adoption of the National Strategy for Social Responsibility in Slovenia, as stated by many European documents? In recent years, we can say this in the medium term, more precisely 2005 the Ministry of Resort was designated as the coordinator for the establishment of a working preparatory group, which would attempt to coordinate or implement this important new form of business, if you want, into a social or national reality, because the current consequences of globalisation and everything that is going on in connection with the financial and even economic crisis in the world and, consequently, in Slovenia show that the transformation of Slovenian and also entrepreneurship companies is necessary. Therefore, I will not repeat the question: Are the activities of the Ministry in progress, which somehow fell asleep in 2005, being re-awakened and put to life? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u232	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thank you for the question, this is my tenth today and on this particular issue. [[...]] The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and now equal opportunities have never been entrusted with the preparation of a national strategy, because this is a substantive document that goes beyond the work of all national authorities and interferes with the work of all national authorities and economic operators and thus goes beyond the powers of our ministry. From the point of view of social responsibility as a tool for social dialogue, the Ministry was the one that participated in the working group meetings of the European Commission for Corporate Social Responsibility at the time of its entry into the European Union. It is precisely because of the emphasis on social dialogue that the original organisational nature falls under the Directorate-General for Employment, and for several years you have been working with the Directorate-General for Entrepreneurship for a stronger focus on the entrepreneurial content of organisational duty. Until the previous term of office, at the initiative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, there was also an Interdepartmental Working Group on Corporate Social Responsibility, which, from the beginning of its membership in the OECD and thus the obligation for the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to operate the OECD National Contact Point for the implementation of the Guidelines for International Companies, has been lost in importance and definitively ceased to exist in the course of the review and termination of the various working bodies of the Government in the previous mandate. The so-called national strategy you are referring to has the basis in the Commission report on the renewed EU strategy 2011-2014 for corporate social responsibility adopted in October 2011. The communication is not legally binding and the content also shows that the Commission invites Member States to design or revise plans or national lists of priority activities for the promotion of social responsibility is by no means a matter of national strategies. In addition, this document refers not only to the content of the OECD guidelines for multinational companies but also to the guidelines of the United Nations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this area and includes the field of human rights in the economy in a broader sense, with which the OECD guidelines have recently been upgraded. There is a civil initiative under the auspices of Equilib, which is preparing a draft priority to be implemented by Slovenia in the area of social responsibility. I believe that it is right for the initiative to come from the bottom up, that is to say from the field of the economy what their needs are, what they want from the country, and that, on the basis of this, civil society and, above all, the economies form these initiatives and then define different resources, not just the Ministry of Labour, to these initiatives. However, our ministry, which is leading in the field of social entrepreneurship in the introduction of this form in Slovenia, strongly encourages this social entrepreneurship and, beyond that, in some way, corporate social responsibility. For us, therefore, from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour, it is particularly important at this time to stress the importance of social entrepreneurship, the possibility of innovative practices and, above all, the more responsible behaviour of businesses. I certainly agree that social responsibility on the part of economic operators is more than necessary, welcome, but certainly it is not possible to achieve this through a strategy or any initiative. This is also a matter of some definition of each individual, especially those leading our economy and not least of us, consumers, to sanction where possible the behaviour of different economic operators who do not act in the direction of socially responsible behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. In fact, you have also partly defined the concept of social responsibility, which means the voluntary approach of all stakeholders to the commitment through ethical, environmental and even, if you want, HRM to operate each institution, as a result we can say state and public administrations. I am pleased that all of this is somehow mentioned in the area of follow-up by the Department of State. I agree that this area is certainly part of the Ministry of Economy's work, and we could even extend it to all ministries in the Republic of Slovenia. Nevertheless, I believe that this very element of volunteering, which is non-binding by European documents, which advertise or recommend such a form of operation or business, could be an impulse that the State administration itself can, on the basis of the findings of civil society, as you yourself have said, also formulate in some form a resolution or a national strategy. This would further motivate those who, in such a form of action, including social entrepreneurship, or some formal forms of thinking resulting from such a form of thinking, such as the Green Public Procurement Act and the like, believe that such a form of business and action, which does not believe in the law of the jungle as a neoliberalist approach to capitalism, is better than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u236	Thanks for the extra question. For example, at the Ministry it was developed under the Progress programme years ago a family-friendly company, which was established mainly among economic operators, and we wanted to transfer it to a wider public administration. Our ministry has also obtained a basic certificate at the time of the Pahor government, and in the meantime something was wrong, so that we now meet the commitments we made at the time, because I believe that it is also necessary for the public or state administration to be an example to be able to do better with socially responsible practices, that people are more satisfied, and above all this is possible if nothing costs us. Your initiative, in view of what would be a recommendation for both public administration and the wider private sector, is certainly not irrelevant. It is, however, a fact that today, in particular, it is necessary to consider how, in what ways, we can achieve such behaviour by these entities and, above all, the example of good practices in society should be highlighted. It seems to me that if we adopt a strategy, we will not contribute as much to it as if we are exposing good practices and spreading the fact that it is also possible to drive a successful company in a socially responsible way, that they are, in fact, companies where both workers are satisfied and buyers and they are also making profits. Thus, it is also with socially responsible behaviour that it is possible to create profit, which is a mantra in the neoliberal concept of the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-09-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded today's parliamentary questions. Thank you, Minister, to all those who have answered the questions, I wish all Members and Members a pleasant day to continue. This also interrupts this agenda item and will be continued on Thursday, 11 July, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. Thank you. That interrupts the session.
