ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I just want to inform you that the Committee's report is prepared, but procedures are under way at this point, so that the report will also be duly published. I'll postpone the session to 14.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Polonca Komar, mag. Katarina Hočevar, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Mr Matevž Frangež and Mr Michael Prevc. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 15 July 2013, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision and before that, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Can we vote? We're voting on the agenda. The 62 Members and Members present voted in favour of 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is an exploratory proposal for a recommendation on the issue of investment in Block 6 thermoelectrical equipment and Slovenian energy. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. Before we move on to the introductory presentations and the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation, I would like to point out that they are both the Government and the Mag. Simon Tot provided the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure and Space with material marked with a degree of secrecy of internal or material which, in accordance with the Company Act, constitutes a business secret. If you intend to use the data from these materials in your debate, please inform the President in advance, because in this case part of the meeting will have to be held in accordance with Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly without public presence. Thank you for your attention. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers. Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u3	Mr President, you have now warned us if we use some of the data from the internal material – not all Members have received it. Unfortunately, I don't know what kind of policy it is not for Members to get materials that are very important. It's an inappropriate policy. It's strange that he's hiding government information, but in my opinion, the minister on the committee quoted and read when I listened to him in the office. The Members of Parliament have hidden the material and documentation. I strongly protest against such a way of leading the National Assembly, because this has never happened before. What came from the government and was important for the hearing was usually received by Members. This time, the practice is different and obviously you have a purpose to inform us as little as possible that we will have a worse discussion and that the public will be as misled as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u4	Thank you for your procedural warning, but I must say that I have rightly reminded you of Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure, which in fact speaks of the fact that if anyone wants to use the data from these materials – which has been addressed to the Committee on Finance and the Committee responsible for Transport or Energy, and this material has also been marked and all the members of the Committee who have received this material can be assured of that. I just wanted to draw your attention to this fact, and I ask that you take this fact into account. Procedurally, Mr. Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u5	Mr President, please explain to me how to discuss the subject if there are certain materials that only members of the Finance Committee and members of the Infrastructure Committee have received. Those who are not members of these two working bodies do not have this material. This was not the case in the National Assembly at the age of eighteen. And I really don't understand. It is true that parliamentary holidays have begun, but if someone already has a holiday in his head, then this is not how it works. It's really insane. Even in the morning, I have been asking around materials where, how, and what, of course, there is nothing to know, not to hear or get, except the one after the towers, that not all Members should read it. I demand that the procedural proposal is that we suspend the meeting for as long as all members of the National Assembly have no access to this material.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u6	Thank you. I agree with this procedural proposal. I am adjourning the meeting for 30 minutes, and at this time all Members and Members will receive the relevant material you are requesting, bearing the mark internally. We'll continue the meeting at 2.50 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u7	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The time for distribution is up. However, I warn you, whoever has not yet managed to take over the material has this opportunity in the hall. At the same time, I would like to point out that the distribution of the material itself does not yet mean that you can talk about this information without having previously announced that you want to talk about it and that I can then apply the provision of Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to deal with this information without the public being present. I hope that right now all the conditions are met so that we can continue our work. We stopped calling the mags. Visionary. Mr. Jerovšek, do you want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u8	Mr President, in connection with this material complication addressed to the National Assembly and to Members, all I have to say is that I have begun to think that it has been clearly photographed for all Members because it is wearing yesterday's date or today and that it was ready immediately. However, we were trying to hide something, or some Members or most Members of Parliament. I urge you not to do that anymore. And I'm already making any argument that someone would close the session because of this – I know that this should not be used because Minister Omerzel, I listened to him after the sounding, some of the parts in this directly quoted on the committee. So after an apology or if someone asks for a adjournment, then it's an illegal secret, because the minister quoted the material, and I listened to it, and I see that exactly the same parts are in there as it was quoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u9	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u10	How does Mr Jerovšek know what Mr. Minister was quoting if he did not have the material?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u11	I propose that, nevertheless, we respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the 101st Article on the use of these data. I propose that we give the floor to further explain the proposal to the representative of the proposers, mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium represents one of Slovenia's largest energy investments, the largest single investment, and I think it is right that Parliament was involved in this investment when it issued the State's guarantee to rent a long-term loan of EUR 440 million and under certain conditions that Parliament is also aware of the changes made to this investment. What is the fundamental purpose of the applicants when we have decided to convene this meeting? Actually, there's two of them. The first fundamental purpose is to make it very clear, on the basis of very different information on the value of the investment, that Parliament should give to those who run the investment, that is, the Italian Power Plant Termoelectrica and Holding, that we have made it very clear that we have limited the value of this investment to a billion EUR 302 million and that these were the conditions under which the guarantee was hired and that this value is the highest possible value of this investment, because we have heard that investment is being auctioned for such and other reasons. I think it is right to make a very clear commitment not to agree to further raising the investment value of this project. The second basic purpose of this requirement was to recognise, on behalf of the State, the risks posed by the start of the operation of this project, both the Italian Power Plant and the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and the Government, which is a type of representative of the owner or manager of this property. Indeed, the electricity prices, the market prices forecast for the period when this facility is already in operation are substantially below the prices foreseen in all the investment programmes so far. The own price of this investment, the so-called own price of electricity from this investment, is rising due to an increase in investment, meaning that there is a difference between this price and that all indications are that there will be risks of investment producing a loss and it is right for the Government to assess these risks and, more rightly, to take measures to manage these risks in a timely manner prior to the start of the operation of these investments. These are the fundamental purposes of the proposers to convene this meeting. I would be very pleased, my fellow Members and colleagues, if we also touched on these purposes in the debate, but we can go back to the history of this project, where we will all be happy to discuss it. Unfortunately, I can't help but mention the chronology of the events of this project, because I think it's right without accusing anyone, and it's right to make it public. In 2006, this project was included in the Resolution of National Energy Projects because it was abandoned because it was also recognised as a promising energy project. Why? Because at the time, according to the investor's data, the value of the investment was estimated at around EUR 600 million because the electricity price at the time was around EUR 55 to 60 per megawatt hour, and at that time Slovenia was in significant deficit as regards production. We have spent 20% to 25% more electricity than we have produced in Slovenia, so we have been energy dependent, and it is true that every country is self-sufficient or independent. At that time, there was also a gap in all the countries of the region, since all the countries of the region were at the time of the conjuncture, not only in 2006, but since 2000 or a little back then, electricity in the wider region was too low. Bulgaria entered the European Union at that time, which had to close its nuclear power plant to join the European Union, further reducing production capacity in the wider region or the Balkans. So at the time, predictions were that all countries in Europe will lack electricity in 2020, only France, which has many nuclear power plants, will have enough or more energy produced than it would have consumed. In the wider region, there has been a decline, that is to say, an ever-increasing step between production and consumption, followed by countries being forced to make investments that would give new production resources in a relatively short time. In 2006, the investment was recognised as providing safe, reliable and competitive electricity supply in Slovenia. By 2008, of course, investment programmes had already begun to be prepared in 2007, specifically in September, the so-called NIP 1, the New Investment Programme, which set this investment value above a billion euros. At that time, this new investment project was made on the basis of offers made by equipment suppliers, because before that we had no real prices, as prices could not be obtained before you received the offer of the supplier selling the equipment, and at that time this price was set at a good billion euros. According to electricity prices, at the time about €90 per megawatt hour, nothing indicated that it would ever fall, even in 2008, the recognised project was economically sound, meaningful and supportive. That is why the government, in which I was also the Minister of Economy and Minister of Energy, had a positive attitude towards this investment in this environment that I mentioned. Therefore, I also highlighted the circumstances surrounding the situation at that time. However, when the economic crisis occurred, when the situation changed dramatically overnight, when electricity prices fell by more than half, that is to say about €40 per megawatt hour, and when this investment continued to be insufferable, as the investment had increased by several hundred million already in 2009, of course some of us had already warned the Government, in particular Prime Minister Borut Pahor, that it was worth reconsidering that investment. At the end of 2008 and 2009, it was also crucial for this project, the circumstances changed significantly, and the responsible investor would reconsider this project. This has been done by virtually all companies. All the companies that have designed, planned investments in the years leading up to the crisis, have radically changed these investments or revised them in new business conditions with the advent of the economic crisis. At that time, parliamentary questions were also raised in this Parliament, in particular in April or May 2009, as well as answers to parliamentary questions and public debate on this answer. At that time, we exchanged views on how we view this investment. We wanted to re-audit this investment, and then it was time. Although the contract was signed in 2008, a reserve premium of around EUR 25 million was also paid, and that was all, the consequences of that time could be limited in a variety of ways, if we thought about it or changed our relationship with it in any way. Once again, I underline that in the opposition at the time, we did not demand that this project be stopped or withdrawn from the project, and we only requested a re-examination of this project in changed circumstances. Nothing has changed, the matter has continued, the investment has continued, and then, as it continued, has also been exasperating. In September 2012, the Investment Programme Novelation 5, called the NIP 5, set the investment value of the project to EUR 302 million. A review of this new investment programme, produced by the prestigious KPMG House, was also produced. The price, which was set at EUR 302 million, was not just an invention of an investor, but was also confirmed by those who reviewed this complete investment. And this was also the basis of the previous government that the price, including with Parliament's support, was fixed to one billion 302 million euros and under these conditions a guarantee was also issued. Moreover, the guarantee was also issued on condition that any significant deviation from this value must be notified or presented to the Government without delay by the investors. By April of this year, there was no such communication, even more, this message came after the Slovenian media had already addressed the issue and warned that the project would be further encouraged by €140 million. Today, we have been able to hear from the management of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant and also from the management of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj that all HSE and TES leaders knew about the number 1.4 billion euro from the very beginning, that is, since 2008, 2009. In fact, I do not understand why not a single management of these companies has informed the government, not Parliament, that this investment will cost so much, but they have shown the matter through all the investment programmes on the amounts I have mentioned. In short, there is something very wrong with these statements. How is it that the leadership of TES or HSE, because we know that the current leadership has been a notification to the competent minister immediately or at the time of the signing of the guarantee contract since last year, if it has been known since 2008, only April this year. We are confident and also yesterday's decisions in the Government are aimed at not being able to complete the investment within the deadlines foreseen by the NIP 5, and not in the amounts or prices foreseen by the NIP 5. Yesterday, the government admitted that the investment would be irritable, with no one today knowing how much — whether it was 140 million or 120 or 180 or 250. But everyone knows that she's upset, and everyone knows today that the guarantee contract will not be respected, and that's not good, that's not right. That is why we wanted Members who proposed this call to commit all those responsible to limit the investment to the investment value of the last revised investment programme that was revised. This is said to be a billion 302 million euros and nothing more. This is the first proposal for a decision or proposal for conclusions that we propose. The other thing is even more problematic. It is more than clear that market prices and forecasts of market prices for the next three years – that is, you need to know that electricity is also traded for three years ahead and that electricity prices on the market are about now known. Here we have the Leipzig electricity market, which is the so-called EEX market where electricity is traded and it is known that electricity prices will not change significantly over the next three years according to today's prices, these prices are well below EUR 40 per megahour. However, it is known that the New Investment Programme says that investment will be economically justified if prices are already there in 2015 €63.5 per megahour and €75 per megahour later in 2016. We know that these prices will not be achieved in these years. That's clear today. And it is clear today that market price forecasts in the document to the updated investment programme say they will then continue to grow. It is clear that they will not grow this way, and it is clear that they will divide between the own price of this facility, which will be around €67 per megawatt hour in 2016 – this is what the NIP 5 says – a gap between this market price and that the project will produce a loss. We have heard from the representatives of the holding company that this loss, which is announced by themselves or they are aware that the problem will be covered by at least the first three years from other production sources. It is said that Drava power plants will probably continue to cover the loss in order to provide a lower selling price for this mix from the entire balance sheet. I don't know if that's a good thing. We have also heard from Holding the Slovenian Power Plant that all remaining unstarted investments in new production sources will be frozen. Probably the medium-Sava chain is meant here, probably also the possible hydropower plants on Mura are thought to be, and it is similar that we are not talking about the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which has been waiting for a development decision for some time. Such a scenario can pose a major threat to the business of Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, all Slovenian energy and also the countries of Slovenia, which is established through the guarantee until this investment. We therefore propose that the Government assess these risks, make different scenarios of market prices in the future and take appropriate measures to manage these risks, so that we do not sink everything or that we also start to implement these measures in time so that we do not get ahead of numbers and negative business results. Holding the Slovenian power plant is highly indebted. There is no additional room for borrowing, so I believe that the problem is relatively critical. Respectfully, the aim of the applicants is to make this investment on the basis of the circumstances that are now known, which have changed substantially in 2009, without the worst consequences that could be if we were to push our heads into the sand. However, if we continue to push our heads into the sand, to instill investment and hope that electricity prices will suddenly rise again to a level of €90.100 per megawatt hour, we will share false hopes and likely make it difficult to solve this particular project in the future. There's something else about the expected electricity prices. The expected electricity prices will go down faster than they go up. In recent years, that is to say from 2008 to 2013, electricity prices have increased by 46%, and energy has not increased by nothing, and it has dropped more. Prices increased due to the higher network, which is an integral part of the retail price. Prices increased due to an increased contribution to renewable energy and prices also increased due to higher levies, taxes on energy. So retail prices did not increase due to the rise in the price of energy itself, which is just one of the components on the ticket you get. As I follow the commitments of the current government, pressure on price cuts is expected rather than price increases, which means there will be no room for further increases in energy prices. Which means that those who hope that prices will go up again — that is, of course, more or less unrealistic. Events in other countries, especially Germany, which has invested a lot in renewables and is now developing a price policy of these prices also on the basis of the premiums it gives to these investors in renewable sources, are saying more and more that it is increasingly less important how much the price of energy produced is, and with this subsidy or refund policy, also dictates the price. And it does not appear that this policy would be changed, and it is actually very real that prices will remain more or less at this level. This may mean additional concerns for the economic viability of the Block 6 project. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, we want the National Assembly to define up to the maximum value of this investment, EUR 1.302 million, and we want the Government to prepare, in due time, a risk assessment on the electricity market at the beginning, and also because of this increased investment, and to take appropriate measures to manage these risks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u13	Thank you. The proposal for a recommendation was also addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At its 22nd emergency meeting, on 16 July 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of investment of Block 6 Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj and Slovenian Energy presented to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 9 July 2013. The amendments were not tabled within the time limit and proposals for amendments to the Committee were tabled at the meeting, by the SDS Group of Members to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and also by the coalition groups to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Recommendation. An additional explanation was provided by the mag on behalf of the applicants. Andrej Vizjak. He said that there were two fundamental purposes which led the applicants to a request to address the issue of investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. The first is that this investment must continue to take place as rationally as possible within and under the terms and conditions of the Guarantee Act for this investment. The second objective of the applicants is to prepare all stakeholders for the future, namely, what will happen if the market prices of electricity are different in future than those forecasted or foreseen in the Noveliran Investment Programme – Revision 5, NIP 5. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the proposal was presented by Valentina Marolt. She said that the content of the proposed recommendation should be assessed from the point of view of the constitutional position of the National Assembly as the legislative branch of government, which also has a supervisory and electoral function. In assessing the proposed recommendation, it is the view of the Legal and Legislative Service that it is necessary to assess whether the National Assembly is competent to propose those presentations and measures to those legal entities. On behalf of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Samo Omerzel stressed that the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant is currently one of the most difficult topics facing not only the Ministry but also the Government. Two facts emerge from the current investment process. One is unrealistic investment plans from the very beginning, which is the main reason for the state of investment today. Secondly, the fact that there was virtually no project management in this investment. However, the fact is that NIP 5 was made on an unrealistic basis, this unrealistic basis is also the basis for the guarantee contract and the guarantee contract is written and signed in such a way that it cannot be withdrawn. Therefore, the Government has adopted specific decisions and has also committed all stakeholders in this project to bring together, on the basis of a detailed analysis of all facts and evidence, the scenario on which this project will be implemented to the end, said Minister Omrezel. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development was presented by Jernej Verebič. The Commission of the State Council supports the continuation of the project on the construction of the replacement Blog 6 of the Heat Power Plant of Šostjanj and the Government's efforts to complete it as soon as possible. In the beginning, the Director-General of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant pointed out that it is difficult to find answers to all current questions about investment in Block 6, if the basic contract for main technology equipment already contains eight annexes and seventeen variations. He assured that things were under control for the time being, and that it was to talk about how the project had been irreduced by 140 million in some way wrong. Among other things, the director of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj said that the activities of the project were running smoothly and that they were accelerated. They're in regular communications, negotiating with the supplier. It is a mutual desire to successfully conclude the negotiations, of course, in a mutually beneficial way. Each month will produce some positive effects on the investment value itself. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to points 1, 2 and 3 proposed by the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the title of the draft act together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for an act, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for an act is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u15	Thank you to the president for presenting the report of the committee! For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, namely the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel, whom I invite to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u16	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! At first I had prepared a slightly different speech, slightly differently written, but after these introductory words I decided that I would still change the concept of what I would like to say to you today. Dear Members and Members! I look at the familiar faces that I see here today, and according to the information of my brief three-month ministry, you are here most of those who were at that crucial moment to make a guarantee for this project. Mr Vizjak was very nice, very vividly presented the history of the project, I myself wanted to talk a little more about it, but I thank him for allowing me to skip this segment and focus on what I think is important for the future and what we as the Government must do to somehow try to ensure that the epilogue of this story is as successful, even though in reality on the disastrous foundations on which we started. In some ways, the project actually receives those real dimensions in 2006, when the first investment plan was developed. Since then, 5 and NIP 5 have been the one on which you decided whether or not you would make a guarantee for this project. Only project management and the entire investment can I really describe in one word – disaster. If we look at project management, it would actually be hard to talk about project management. This can be concluded primarily on the basis of the documentation that we analysed at the Ministry and tried to get the right data. As far as managing the investment is concerned, it is also a non-transparent documentation. The fact that the basic contract has experienced 8 annexes, and 19 additional amendments to it, tells us how the project was originally set up. But if we leave history behind and look at how to move forward, it is one of the key schools for me, one of the key experiences that I have experienced in this project – and again in these last three months, when I get to know the situation on the project itself – that the key decisions have actually been made on the wrong information. So what we got from the current directors running the Heat Power Plant as Holding itself shows that the claims that the project is being auctioned are not true. This project has cost so much since the very beginning, and this project has not been undermined by our mandate, as it is trying to demonstrate. This project has cost so much since the beginning! The moment you decided to make a guarantee, you had the wrong information in front of you. What I would not like to repeat during my term of office is that I would also make the decisions that I will take as Minister – I have finally come to this position to make these decisions on the right data. The purpose of these conclusions, which we propose, is to make a clear, transparent section of the management of this investment in order to familiarise ourselves with the exact, clear data not only on the management of the investment, but also how only TES works – and this segment is also important how much the investment itself intertwines with the current operation of the power plant – and that based on these historical facts we can then make decisions that will be clear, and we will know why we have decided to do so. But to make these decisions, we have two segments. One is the historical facts in this area, in this project, and the other is where the investment takes it. It is necessary for me, as Minister, to get at table NIP 6. So NIP 6 is the one who will tell on the basis of the facts that have come up, what will be the profitability of this project; whether we will work with profit or work with loss, or whether it makes sense that the project itself, the thermal power plant itself, works or does not. I don't have that information right now. When I have an exact clearance of what has happened historically, which contracts, which anexes have been concluded and what is with the NIP 6, what shows the real investment plan, at that moment I will also be able with all responsibility as Minister to give a clear position and opinion on how to proceed with the TES 6. And this is what the Government has proposed, and this is why we want you to support this, so that we can finally decide on the right data. And maybe that's what I'd like to add to the conclusion. My personal opinion on this project, managing the entire investment, is that this is an example of how we should not behave in these countries. And it's not the only project I inherited from the Ministry. There are also some of these, not in such dimensions, but rather some projects that have been run inappropriately, in the wrong way, untransparent, by misleading, by misinformation – even if you want to know about spatial planning and legalization of buildings, buildings. We had three legalizations in Slovenia, an identical problem as with TES. We legalized something we didn't know what we were legalizing. Again, we made a key mistake in making decisions without having the right input data without having the right information to decide. And as Minister, I will fight to have the right information at the moment of my decision on the table, and that is also my duty. We are talking about TES 6 or spatial planning to know clearly at that point whether this investment plan is true or not or whether the inputs to this investment plan are real or not. It is my duty, the Minister and my teams, to be able to verify that it is true, and only then can we propose and give direction forward, what we think is right and what is wrong. For this reason, I will fight and therefore, in this segment, one of the proposals of conclusions we need is crucial that we have an independent expert institution to verify whether this investment plan that will be drawn up is a holding that will verify all the actual conditions on this project. It is not enough if KPMG takes into the hands of NIP 5 and sees whether the mathematics in the NIP is correct or not. This is what has been done in the revisions of these investment plans. Maths were checked, not content. KPMG said one plus one is two. Yes, they did. They did. This is not a proper assessment for me. What is crucial is that we have an expert who deals with content, mathematics clearly does not work, and we need such an expert team to scan the situation on the project itself, to make a careful review of the TEC business itself and on this basis we will then be able to take appropriate action, as Minister and Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u17	Thank you, Minister, for presenting your position. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u18	Good afternoon! Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Minister, all present! It is again on the agenda of the National Assembly on TES 6 issues, and unfortunately we are talking about an individual project, without having strategic documents in the hands of the Republic of Slovenia that would talk about energy over a period of decades, but we want to focus on the issue of who was the minister and who is to blame for the project. Slovenian energy should have clear objectives by 2050, with interim steps until 2030 and on such a basis decisions should also be taken. Unfortunately, we have not done this in Slovenia in the last few years, and that is why we also deal with individual investments as much as we do. It is also very clear that energy is not a sector that would stop at the borders of a country to which the country could close its macroeconomic environment within the framework, but is very involved in the international environment. In Slovenia we have been talking for several years, over the last five to six years, about the amendment of the national energy programme, which was adopted in early 2003, 2004. It was very quickly found to be less implemented, and it is even harder to agree on how to adopt a new strategic document. I had the opportunity to see a Swedish document written on seven pages. It was written six months after the energy package was adopted in Europe, and Sweden decided, on the basis of an agreement in the coalition, a discussion in Parliament where this document was adopted, on such key matters as, for example, not to close the nuclear plant, but to extend operation, to do everything on the hydro potential, to do everything in the next few years in order to be the first in the automotive industry in the world to make energy-efficient facilities and so on. But we work 300 pages of paper, we pay experts, and we talk about it year after year, but we don't make decisions. And unfortunately, it's as much about energy as it is about a lot of other things. As far as the placement and construction of TES 6 are concerned, we have also been talking for the past decade. I have already said on the committee today that this last decade has been divided into two five years, if I may say so: the first five years of the economic crisis and the second five years of the economic crisis. At the time of the merger, I myself had the opportunity to participate in these decisions, and at the time it was practically under pressure that prices in those years had risen from EUR 40 per megawatt hour to EUR 90 per megawatt hour, that the energy systems in Europe were falling apart, that from 25 to 30 % of electricity was imported in Slovenia, that it was always harder to import. And in such circumstances, in 2007, 2008, based on documents first produced by the TES under the Holding, these documents were initialled, and this key decision was taken to make this investment. Once at the end of 2008, as we have already said today, there has been an economic crisis. At the same time, a somewhat earlier energy package was adopted, which put this investment under question and, above all, macro-economic circumstances and a drastic fall in electricity prices, electricity consumption prices have changed significantly. That is when the moment came when we could have time in Slovenia to think clearly about this investment. I myself was at that point in the National Assembly, as I mentioned earlier in the Holding Supervisory Council, and therefore, in March 2009, I put a question to the President of the Government, Mr Pahor. This was the first opposition question to the Prime Minister, who also received sufficient support for us to hold a debate in May. On the table I now have these materials, you can all see them, magnetograms, and then in fact in Slovenia we should make a decision and make a sober thought. At that time, only 25 million reservations for the contract were paid under the Treaty between TEC and Alstom. Unfortunately, in 2009, when the time was right, the policy decided to proceed smoothly with this project, and at the end of August 2009, a key contract was signed and since then, respected colleagues and colleagues, this debate in Slovenian political, media and other areas is more about throwing sand into the eyes than some serious conversation. Since August 2009, when investment was made when bonds with Alstom at the level of 900 and more million were signed, we are just launching a circus around this investment. However, what the Minister has now mentioned is that there are many questions as to whether this investment is being conducted properly, has already been the persecution of a whole range of checks by the authorities and, for God's sake, this should be determined once and for all and made order in this area. As far as this investment is concerned, it was very clear that in 2009 it was in the financial structure that EIB loans, the EBRD, when the investment increased – were then decided in Parliament in a structured and obviously investment programme, since the European Investment Bank had requested Parliament's guarantee for such a loan. I don't know why it delayed in 2009, 2010, 2011. However, I know for sure that in 2009, when the Minister of Economic Affairs pushed Mr Lahovnik to make an investment in replacement, with Mr Lahovnik's resignation and the arrival of Mrs Radičeva, he began to stamp out this investment and that it was argued in the coalition whether or not the guarantee would have been given, that the three-year mandate had expired and that this hot bone had received last year's government, which I was a member of. Those who believe that this investment could have been completed in 2012 or 2011 or avoided the State guarantee are misleading the Slovenian people, because in this case this investment would certainly have fallen and the price of the missed investment would have come and would have been invoiced for it at that time over the fact that the Holding State is the owner. Therefore, I think that, on the basis of all these facts, which are known to all of us, and even more or less, I think that in the wider Slovenian space, it is crucial that, in my opinion, what has been said here today, let us focus on how to close the investment as soon as possible, in the meantime to do everything proposed by the proposer, which I think in the Government's paper is summed up by the Government, that we need to re-examine the entire national investment plan and examine the implications that this investment will have for the ongoing operation of the holding itself, which is a good company above the TES, as well as very important for future investments in the Slovenian energy system. For, as some of us have predicted in 2009, this investment may be taken hostage by all future energy investments. I must say that I fully agree with the proposaler's conclusions, including what the Government has concluded in October, that it will try to make a clear picture in this area and come back to Parliament, I support and I think that at this time everything must really be done to move the project forward normally. If those who have run it so far cannot lead it or is such a minister’s assessment, let them put up those who will make it right and bring it to an end as best as possible. It is important to see who has deceived Parliament at this time because it is obvious that creative accounting or creative project management has been deceived several times. Just as Mrs Radič was pressing for leadership at the time, there was clearly some correction of the investment programme, and it was also obvious that last year, when it was necessary to arrive at the National Assembly for a guarantee. If this is true, and more than obvious, because it has already been confirmed several times that the same day as the guarantee was issued, in which it was very clearly stated that neither the price should rise nor that this investment, signed by the Annexes – must be held accountable for it because it was deceived by the Slovenian Parliament and the Slovenian public and also by the Slovenian taxpayers, who in some way represent them in this work. I believe that, as I have already said, it is necessary to ensure that the project is completed, to identify the consequences of this project in the future picture of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, on the future investment potential, to make clear priorities in this area. For those who have deceived us on these projects, and obviously by knowingly deceived the Slovenian taxpayer, to demand responsibility. I hope that the debate will also go truly in the direction that the conclusions that have been proposed will come true as soon as possible and that we will learn something from this story. Let me just say that in Slovenia these days there was a team from the European Investment Bank that assessed another energy project, the Hydroelectric Brežice, and to a large extent questioned that investment due to unclear issues in this area. I think it is high time that this work is actually done by professional people and we finally get a clear picture of this project in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u19	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the updated Proposal for Recommendations on the issue of investment in Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šostanj and Slovenian Energy. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made it clear that the National Assembly, which represents the legislative branch of the Authority, cannot deal with and take decisions which are, in this case, enforceable under the exclusive competence of other branches of government. We therefore believe that the National Assembly of the Government can only propose reporting on certain facts, analyses and assessments and the implementation of the Government's measures, which it cannot and must not require from entities outside the executive branch of government, such as economic operators such as Holding the Slovenian Power Plant and the Termoelectric Power Plant of Šostanj. However, the National Assembly may propose to the Government that, within its powers, it obtain data from companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which the Government has already done. It also adopted conclusions in accordance with the agreement at the joint meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure and Space on 31 May this year on the issue of the construction of Block 6 of the Termoelectric Power Plant Šostjanj. In the DeSUS Group, we supported the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, especially in terms of energy self-sustainment of the Republic of Slovenia and from a social point of view, as this project also entails greater security of jobs in the Savinj-Shalalj region. We also insist all the time that the project must be transparent and economically justified. At the same time, we believe that the construction of Block 6 is too far away to be stopped economically. We expect that the Government, Holding of Slovenian Power Plants and Termoelectrica Šostanj will closely monitor the state of the project, identify the risks, seek measures to control them, and complete the project without further increasing costs. We also expect that the Special Expert Group will carry out an investment audit in Block 6 and that the State Defence Office, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, will prepare a report as soon as possible on the legality of the conduct of the authorities of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant and the Termoelectric Power Plant of Šostanj. In the event of irregularities identified, the competent services should propose measures to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and submit the report to the law enforcement authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u22	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I don't think I'll miss much if I say Project TES 6 was run criminally and dilettarianally. And I'm going to try to give this my thesis a little bit more detailed. If the first investment assessment was made there in 2006, around EUR 600 million, NIP 2 had already set the real price of this project in 2009 – a little over EUR 1,000 400 million. Since 2009, however, this price has fluctuated according to current political needs. If you look at 2009, the then NIP and the then state of the investment, then you can see that the year 2009 was the year when it was still possible to act and that this investment could have stopped at no more cost. It was known about the real price, but pressure from a wide variety of lobbying continued and achieved that this investment began to take place. Of course, we can speculate here that many have seen the possibility of making a good profit in such a large investment, and therefore it is not excluded that this was also one of the reasons why they were so pressured to start this investment. All the things I will continue to say were published in public publications, answered at an open meeting of the National Assembly, so that no one will say that I am speaking what is written in the internal works. When I said that the project was run criminally and delicately – if you just look at the annexes. All the Annexes were concluded to the detriment of TES. Each annex went in the direction that the performer Alstom is practically not being punished for anything, even if he is late, while TES is being punished practically for every minor thing. Even more, in these annexes, there was a promise that could not be promised at all. If you have watched or followed the details in the media, then you know that in these annexes there has also been a promise of how the National Assembly will adopt the guarantee law by a certain date. At this point, we may wonder how someone could have claimed this — whether he had a number of votes or how he knew or was obviously misleading. In terms of construction and assembly itself, for the impression only: if the installation was estimated at EUR 100 million in 2011, it was estimated at EUR 180 million two years later, 2013. The circumstances have not changed in these two years, and the price has changed enormously. There was an extensive report on how €10 million was paid for the unfinished works of Primorje, and there was much talk about how the Welders from TES were paid for 16 euros per hour, while Hildins paid 32 euros per hour. A major investment such as TES should be asked why it does not occur or why there has not been anti-supply rather than any other investment. I can only gladly conclude that New Slovenia was the only party where all Members of the Group opposed the guarantee legislation. Today it appears that we did something else right at the time, because we Members were misled at the time, we were presented with the wrong numbers and the wrong investment programme. Remember what enormous pressures have been put in place by TES if we are not responsible if we do not adopt the guarantee legislation in a timely manner - for every day 100,000 euros in fines. But look at the fraction, that's exactly what the director of TES signed, and then he put that responsibility on us. That we were muddy in the media, how we don't understand things, how we live on the moon, how the project can't be stopped and could continue to be listed. And where are we today? The price is still unclear and it is not known whether the project will be economically justified or not in the long term. Even in the government's position, the minister himself admitted that the data was unclear and that the government itself did not know how this investment was currently standing. There has been a debate on the committee, or an accusation between each other, who is more guilty, who has occupied a ministerial post and so on, but unfortunately such debates in the given situation will not help us, so today we are obliged to act responsibly and prudently and to do everything possible to ensure that this investment or the price of this investment will not continue to grow unhindered and, above all, to finally find out once what the loss of this investment will be. I am deliberately talking about loss because, on the basis of everything that has been said so far, it is clear that Block 6 of the Heat Power Plant will be difficult to make any profit. If the case were so profitable, then today would not be any problem for an investor to invest in this project, because he would simply count on any profit that is not expected. Of course, many of today’s views have gone in the direction that the project has been brought so far that it simply cannot be stopped. And the policy of implemented facts continues when something is done, and then it is presented as if there is no going back. I'll give you an Austrian case -- I don't know if you know him. Austria built a nuclear power plant in the 1970s, which was in Zwentendorf. In 1975 she started building a nuclear power plant and completed it there in a couple of years, but in 1978 there was a referendum and people said they didn't want this nuclear power plant, and in 1985 they shut down this nuclear power plant in Austria without ever starting it. Ask yourself what the cost of this investment was. These costs were slightly less than €3 billion. They have simply stopped an investment worth €3 billion. Today this nuclear power plant is used to train exercises and similar things. What I want to say to you with this is that economic calculations need to be made. If we are still not paid more economically, we should also stop the investment at this point, because the possible later costs might be enormous and we would far exceed what we would pay today for wrong decisions and missed investments. I think this should be a fundamental question today. We are therefore convinced in New Slovenia that there is no time to talk about what is not possible. Those who say what they can't do are huge. Because they say it is impossible to build wind power plants because only in Slovenia are birds so stupid that they crash into windmills, we do not have wind power plants today. We also do not have additional hydropower plants on Sava because we only have a special sultar in Slovenia that swims in these rivers. In New Slovenia, we do not want later generations to pay enormous taxes and enormous weight just because today we would say that something is not possible. You can do anything if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Jože Velenja will present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u24	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Following the strategic development plan adopted in June 2004, Block 6 with 600 megawatts should gradually replace technologically obsolete and economically non-profitable Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. It is an important project included in the Resolution on the National Energy Programme and in the Resolution on National and Development Projects 2007-2023, adopted by the Government on 12 October 2006, and amended in 2008. The low-valuable TES 6 with the investment programme, which was developed in April 2006, which listed the pre-budget value of the investment with the funding costs involved, some over EUR 636 million, began to be amended in May 2007 taking into account Alstom's choice as the supplier of the main technology equipment. In the updated investment programme of September 2007, produced and revised by CEE, the value has already jumped over €953 million, almost 49% more than a year ago. As early as 2008, the management of TES received a clear warning in the professional opinion of a respected English law firm that the contract was too generous for the supplier. Despite the warning, they signed a contract. The undeniable conclusion is that the signed basic contract with Alstom contains elements favouring the supplier’s position and that disproportionately high risk is passed on to the investor – therefore the value continued to increase. The last NIP 5 in 2011 predicted that the final value of the investment would be EUR 1.3 billion, and today, on the basis of known facts and reports produced so far, it is estimated that the final value would be more than EUR 1.44 billion. The project is currently in final phase, with 85% of construction works completed in relation to contracts concluded and over 63% of construction works paid by the end of April 2013. On the basis of the material information discussed at its 34th meeting, the Government concluded that the project does not provide implementation in time and price frameworks as defined in the investment decision. Positive Slovenia regrets and condemns the shameful and extremely damaging management of investments in the construction of Block 6 TES. In a few years, the investment value of the original 636 million increased to over €1.4 billion. The abnormal increase in investment value is due to poor planning and implementation of the investment. According to the available data, the investment should be kept going as the consequences of the withdrawal from the contract and the guarantee, which was not supported by the Positive Slovenia in the National Assembly, would be extremely harmful for Slovenia. The journey back in our opinion is gone and it is expected that the guarantee will be exhausted. TES will be built, and all the consequences are still unclear at this point. However, it is already known that the construction of TES 6 destabilizes an important part of the energy sector in our country and that fundamental changes in the operation of the Slovenske Power Plant Holding will be needed. In Positive Slovenia, we support the Government's plans that the whole project should be revised by autumn and led on a completely different basis. In Positive Slovenia, we are also of the opinion that the competent authorities, in particular the Court of Auditors and the State Defence, should carry out all appropriate procedures and clarify a number of allegations of corruption and other illegal behaviours responsible for the project. It is absurd that clarification of the circumstances with regard to TER 6 is required by those responsible for it. The SDS requested the convening of an extraordinary TES meeting, and the first government under the leadership of Janez Janša bears this responsibility to sign the TES construction contract. It was signed by the then HSE Director and the long-standing visible SDS official. The same government under the leadership of the said party is also responsible for raising investment value to 1.1 billion euros. The coalition government, which has inherited it, has allowed the investment value to continue to grow. The SDS requirement for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly cannot be interpreted differently than an attempt to revitalize its own responsibility and an attempt to transfer responsibility to others, including the current government. Today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is the lacumus paper of the policy of transferring the lignite coalition of all political colours, which seriously endangered the TES project and one of Slovenia's energy pillars, but now they are alerting us to their own mistakes and calling for more responsible policies in the future. In Positive Slovenia, we regret that the project, which had the ambition to develop the entire region of the Silesian region, has become a victim of selfish partial interests and that in the end it is very likely that it will not achieve its purpose in the regional and not in the national sphere. Positive Slovenia supports the conclusions of the Government adopted at its 34th meeting. She summarized the recommendations in the amendment, which were also supported by the mother's working body at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, there may be a few words about this, as I see from the presentations made so far by the positions of the groups of Members, that some are not clear who is leading the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant. The investment in the 6th block of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj is managed from the very beginning by a company which is 100 % owned by the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, which is 100 % owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Operationally, this investment is not led by the government or the individual minister. Nor is it true that there were personnel at the head of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, which could have been attributed to the Slovenian Democratic Party in one way or another. If they were, I can say with responsibility from this place that this investment would not have gone into a dead end like it did in the past. And something similar to what you discovered today, we also found a year ago. We have noted that the investment has been driven inappropriately, in an inadequate manner and uneconomically, with a high level of corruption risks, as the Commission has also found to prevent corruption. A number of annexes were concluded, mainly by favouring the supplier and not the contracting authority and so on. Of course, some decisions have been taken and some investigations have also been carried out in this regard, as you know, which have not yet been completed. During this period, Mr Rotnik, Mr Tot, led the thermal power plant in Šostanj, and is now run by Mr Dermol. None of these can be claimed to belong to the interest or political sphere of the Slovenian Democratic Party. For the latter, Mr Dermol, who now leads the TES, I hear he is a member of the Social Democrats. I hope that this place will be properly demonstrated, especially in the part where we say that this investment should not be further encouraged. It has a great responsibility and I personally believe that it will make an investment, just as the National Assembly confirmed this decision last year. Today, we have already heard that the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica in terms of size, covers some of Slovenia's largest energy individual investment, with the Republic of Slovenia being exposed to this investment, since the National Assembly approved a guarantee of EUR 440 million last year for the long-term loan. The investment was also included in the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, adopted by the then Janševa Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 100th session. 12. 2006. At that time, the estimated value of investment in the investment programme was estimated at EUR 691 million. The other circumstances were already mentioned today. The price of electricity was then moving somewhere between 55 and 60 euros, and in the next two years it increased and even approached EUR 100 per megawatt hour. At the time, the Republic of Slovenia was heavily dependent on imports. We've used about 20 to 30 percent more energy than we've produced ourselves. The objectives of this project were to ensure safe, reliable and competitive electricity supply in the Republic of Slovenia, the use of huge lignite stocks for electricity production, the improvement of environmental protection in relation to the existing blocks of the thermal power plant, of course, is also not negligible to the local aspect of providing jobs to the local population. At the time, however, the investment was found to be important in terms of ensuring reliable supply – as you know, in Slovenia we somehow guarantee this reliability through scattered electricity production, where about a third of the energy is obtained from thermals, a third from fast and a third from nuclear sources. And if an investment had been made within the framework, as it was then or possibly with some minor corrections, which in any case would have led to circumstances requiring individual deviations from what was originally planned, then in the past years and certainly today in the National Assembly, they would not have discussed this subject, but would not have discussed it in this way, in particular, by a negative approach. It would not have been a questionable project economy, a number of audits would not have been necessary, not least, a state guarantee would not have been needed, as the State guarantee was only necessary after this value had risen outside the normal framework and the European Investment Bank also requested the State guarantee for the insurance. If the investment had been made as at the time when the current Member was in charge of energy, then Minister Andrej Vizjak would have no problem with this investment. What has happened since that period? Following this investment programme from April 2006, the first innovation was made in 2007 and the next in March 2009, amounting to EUR 424 million,555 thousand. That was March 2009. Half a year later, in October of the same year, a re-novation was made, the third one that suddenly reduced this value by about 250 million, by a billion 189 million, and the costs of funding before 225, after the new 131. I say this because it is now speculated that the NIP 5 misestimated funding costs because they were reduced according to the NIP 4. But also in the NIP 4, which was adopted at the time of the Pahor government, the investment programme, the fourth version, August 2011, was set at exactly as much as EUR 302 million today. Which of these values is not true and who was to believe, and will be the one now forecasting for a billion 440 euros, and why is this happening? Why do we keep coming in with an increase in value? Where's the responsibility here? Is it really the responsibility of the government, the minister or the responsibility of those who are obliged to run the project economically and to trust them and why nothing happens at the level of the supervisory boards throughout this period? So when these things started to happen in the period 2009 when the circumstances also changed when the price of electricity fell, you know that calls were made at the time by both the then Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party, even when Comrade Vizjak wrote a public letter on 23 April 2009, to then Prime Minister Borut Pahor, where he drew attention to these risks arising, and suggested that the contents of this project be considered as it was previously set. It is likely that there should be a change in the content of the proposed capacity and given the changed circumstances, because by then only EUR 25 million had been paid and they would not have been lost if, after the content of the project, the project had been redefined in an appropriate manner – redefined in such a way as to still ensure the long-term exploitation of the great lignite, provided this social note in this environment and, on the other hand, provided the part of the energy supply that we owe to the future, given that nature is unpredictable and that it is right that we are energy in Slovenia, as far as possible, self-sufficient. However, this consideration did not take place. Nothing has happened and more has happened, nor has there been any final decision that the value of this project would then be maximized and that the Government would put a stop to i and say that there is so much economic value for such a project and nothing more. As a result, decisions were taken to enable this project to somehow move forward without any proper supervision being imposed. So it is very difficult to talk about which of these investment programmes is actually credible and which is not. They can all be credible, they can all be unworthy. It is equally likely that NIP 6 will be as credible as all previous investment programmes when it is made. However, even if the last NIP 5 was not credible and speculation is being put forward that the audit carried out by KPMG was implausible – which is a very difficult claim made by the Minister and has a certain weight – this will certainly have certain consequences because this last NIP 5 which was made last autumn was audited by the audit company KPMG and reviewed by both supervisory boards, both the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and the TES. And if he was unworthy, then beyond so many eyes, this incredulousness could not escape. Someone would have had to sign this indemnity if it really happened before November 30, when he and his colleague, Dr. Janez Šušteršič, signed the guarantee contract, and I, along with him, took note of the obligation under this title and made it clear. That didn't happen. Today, we have heard on the Committee that some have already known, and also some who are quite high in these societies, that this document was unworthy. However, it does not matter, the contract was signed as the guarantee law was passed last July 18th in the National Assembly — with five conditions to be met and with a maximum price of EUR 302 million. And this treaty must be adhered to until a different decision is taken by the National Assembly. There's no other way. How are they gonna do that? Are they gonna do it or not? As Minister, I would not be interested and as a Member, we have no interest in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and we have no interest in how and how the management of this project will ensure that this investment takes place within the framework set by meeting all five key conditions, including one essential, price maximisation. The former management publicly argues that this contract is capable of being implemented at this price. Let's give them a chance, give them a chance. We have heard a lot on the committee today about this €140 million increase, and with all the data on the table - the respected minister spoke of the lack of data to be scanned. Everything is on the table, all the data is on the table from before, from the previous term and from the previous mandates, and last but not least, all the data in your own material is scanned, including the one on which the label was classified or internal. All the data is scanned, everything is described, all the invoices are written down, everything is known exactly until the last euro, how much this investment was intended for and would be given very easily to this list, where the recapitalisation in this investment programme is attributed. Very simple business, you do not need NIP 6. You write here how many contracts have been concluded so far, how much has been paid and what will be paid for. And why funding costs will not be just over 80 million euros, but should be 125 million euros. All the decision-making data are on the table, but of course it is necessary to decide whether or not the National Assembly will agree that the project is being auctioned again? Because at this point, a billion 203 million euros, you know that last year there were a lot of doubts as to whether this investment was still justified or not. Whether it still reaches that minimum threshold of return, which each, and particularly the State investment, must achieve and whether, in the light of the changed circumstances, it will not present a problem once it is launched. There was a lot of talk about this, you know, that at the time the parental committee, because it was a law of guarantee, was working on a number of continuing meetings and that a lot of information was required regarding what was also provided. According to the content, it was time to redefine this project somewhere in 2009, and unfortunately that time was delayed. At that time, all the ministries at the time did not make use of this time; then the competent Ministry of Economy in 2009 and 2010 and also the Ministry of Finance and Government at that time in 2010. In the meantime, we have been following up on a political dispute where political or other muscle tension has taken place on who has a greater impact on this investment, or on Real or Social Democrats, and we are now hearing that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are responsible for all of these benefits that are taking place in this project – very interesting. Well, at the time, in an interview with the then leader of Zares and the minister, the minister, or minister, who was responsible for energy during that period, said that Project 6 "Patria of this Government" was 27. 11. 2010 – He meant Pahor's government, of course. Now, why did he say that, he'll know or know for himself. The fact is that all these conflicts did not prevent this inappropriate way of managing this investment and this erosion was happening, but they were being promoted in my opinion. Instead of being taken seriously by the content of the government and eliminating these inconsistencies, I think that the lack of economy, intransparency and poor governance have increased. So there wasn't this necessary guarantee. The investment was increasingly threatened. The then Finance Minister Križanič with the law did not come to the National Assembly. Because of this, as you know, our then fellow Member, the current mayor of Velenje, Mr Kontic, has come with the law. In autumn 2011, this law was introduced, about the same as it was adopted last year and was subsequently introduced by Mr Sreček Meh. However, this law was rejected in autumn 2011 in the National Assembly and was not adopted. Then we had a re-investment after the early elections, when Janša's government had not yet been appointed, on 2 February 2012. On 2 February last year, Mr Srečko Meh and three other Members introduced the law of guarantee into the parliamentary procedure. Somehow I lovingly call him the law of Meh, and I hope he doesn't hold it against me, nothing bad about it. And with regard to this Mehov guarantee law for TES 6, the previous government quickly identified and responded, within 13 days of its appointment. 10.2. has been appointed, 23.2. has adopted appropriate decisions in this regard and with an investment only from which it has not withdrawn until August, until the moment Parliament has decided on this law. Five conditions were laid down in this. First, the value of the project, where the ambition was to reduce the value by a billion 302, but if this is not possible, should be maximized at this value. The second was a condition for the long-term supply of coal with a maximum price, the third condition was as regards completion deadlines, the fourth with regard to the achievement of the profitability of the project and the fifth with regard to CO2 emission limits. At the same time, the Government has taken appropriate decisions on the exercise of responsibility and has informed the authorities of all the checks carried out by that date. At the level of the Ministry, a special commission was appointed, in which external energy experts also participated, which, by the end of April, produced a report in which it was very detailed to dissect the project and found what we already knew more or less that it was poorly managed, uneconomically, that harmful contracts were concluded for the contracting authority, that many annexes were to the detriment of the contracting authority, so that it would be appropriate to conduct such a project in a different way, within the framework of a separate legal person, in order to find a partner for the project. It would be appropriate to find a partner who would then carry the risk of this project. I am convinced that if there were a 50-50 partnership or through a supplier or otherwise, this profitability would be significantly different and also the value of the project would be lower, thus achieving all those goals that were somehow set when the first Janša government in 2006 somehow put this project into long-term development programmes. Then a question was raised regarding the supplier of technology equipment, as to the choice itself. You know what the problem was; about the value of editing and so on. So last year Parliament was informed of all of this before deciding on the fulfilment of the five conditions. In conclusion, according to all the information on the table, the government did not decide whether or not to oppose the guarantee law, but left the decision to the National Assembly. You know that was a tough decision. There were only 59 Members present, of whom 29 voted in favour of the law and interestingly, when we speak of this more difficult responsibility, more from the Social Democrats' Group voted in favour of this law, 7 out of 10 than from the largest opposition parliamentary group. Only six of the 26 MPs voted in favour of the law from the SDS. However, the law was adopted on 18 July last year under conditions which were very exact and on the basis of this law and these conditions is then Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, 30. I signed a guarantee contract last year and I signed a relationship agreement with him. With regard to the management of this investment, which contained these five conditions, the maximum value and the clause that all deviations from what has been signed must be notified to both ministries without delay. Until 20. I have not received such a notification this year. We have heard that the current minister was informed informally about this, and I believe that the end of April, and formally on 24 May this year. In short, how come it's only after so long if it's been 30. 11. Upon signature of the contract it is clear that something in this NIP does not hold. Who is now deceiving whom and who is opening up to whom an additional €140 million field? In the Group, we expect that this project, which unfortunately will no longer be stopped – perhaps not stopped, but changed in 2009 and this would also make sense. It could no longer be stopped last year because the damage would have been too large, too enormous, a year ago, then last February, around 80 to 90% of the contracts were closed, which means that the cost of this investment would have been even higher than it would have been. However, at the very least, it is necessary to ensure that those who are currently in charge of this project carry out this project within the framework of such contracts as have been signed. If they are unable to do so, they cannot do so without the consent of the National Assembly. We must not accept the consent of the National Assembly, for this will also give you pause for the remaining derogations that may still occur and around which there has also been a lot of talk about not being able to fulfill them. I am primarily talking about this cheap long-term supply of lignite, which has been maximized to a certain level, and some other circumstances. The current management also argues that this project cannot be carried out in the way that the contracts are now signed. The former leadership claims otherwise. It is difficult to be a judge in these conflicts, but somehow it appears that this story is about some kind of conflict, some prestigious conflict between the present and previous leaders. It is not to be overlooked that Mr Dermol, who is now a member of the TES principle, was part of the former Director's team and it would be very unpleasant and unpleasant for this conflict to take place on the backs of taxpayers or the National Assembly. It would also be inappropriate because I believe that our common objective is to complete this project in the best possible framework, as it can be done, and to make every effort to achieve this goal in our area as far as we can. Above all, I believe that our common objective is not to cause the project to destabilize Slovenian energy in any way or in any other way, but above all not to cause the project to reduce its investment potential for other projects that are still essential in the energy field in the coming years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to achieve two with today's debate. Firstly, we wanted to achieve respect for the guarantee law, as it was adopted last year in the National Assembly, on 18 July. With this debate, we wanted to achieve respect for the signed contracts and ensure that the investment in the sixth block of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica is carried out in the manner that was justified by this law and signed contracts last year. Secondly, we wanted to allow them to study and take appropriate measures, as soon as possible, to prevent the risks that must arise from changing circumstances in the electricity market for Slovenian energy in connection with this project, and in particular for other energy projects that I mentioned earlier. Unless these risk management measures are taken in time for the investment in Block 6, any further investment in the production of resources in the Republic of Slovenia, the achievement of the objectives of the climate energy package of directives, as well as the competitiveness of electricity prices in the Republic of Slovenia, will be jeopardised. Today, I must say that, despite all the debates and despite all the materials we have received, we do not have unfortunately any relevant information on the fact that the €140 million embezzlement is inevitable and, above all, we do not have data on whether this is the final price of this investment or not. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not agree that this value would increase in order to allow for a manoeuvre field or the possibility of adding another power supply, because we know that there have been quite a few of them on this investment. We want clear information, of course. Unfortunately, the Home Committee has overtaken our proposals with the amendments that have been adopted. If the amendment we tabled is not adopted and we propose that you accept it, then you will give the project's project's operators a blank opinion for at least €140 million. I don't think the National Assembly can agree to that. We expect the National Assembly to accept the request for this project to be carried out within the financial, substantive and time-frames as adopted by the Guarantee Act adopted last July 18 July and signed contracts. Otherwise, we estimate that there is a serious danger both for the completion of this project and for the stability of the energy sector, particularly as regards future investments in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are still ahead of another debate in this series of years on the investment of Block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica. Many more have been said in this and in all past years. Hours have been running, my dears, months have passed, years when politics, the economy and civil society have been discussing efficiency, efficiency, economics and other aspects of building the sixth block. In all the debates, it is only possible that the exact and definitive answers to what the investment TES 6 will bring, how much and at what time interval it will be repaid, could never be found. But what's interesting is that all the contracts are signed. What's more, with all the annexes worth it. Since the beginning of the debate, social democrats have advocated only this as a prudent investment, mainly in terms of energy needs and plans to build buildings for electricity production in Slovenia. And that was our main guide. We have seen energy independence as a key assumption and a first condition for the investment of TEŠ 6. Over the last years, when the building of the block began, the controversy deepened and deepened, particularly as regards the economic aspect. In addition to the other factors, the investment has further burdened the difficult economic situation in the world and Europe, as well as the tight financial conditions in the energy market. Economic factors, which are directly and indirectly linked to the construction of the bloc, have become acute to the extent that the projected investment price has risen to almost a billion and 440 million euros today. But the answers, beloved, why and by whose fault there is no. Today we are facing a major difference between the planned and now planned costs of building Block 6 and, unfortunately, we are not expecting major answers at today's meeting. We also do not expect to find a common language in this room today, how we must drive the investment, how costs increase will be annoyed or stopped, and what control mechanism we will establish so that all uncertainties and doubts about the untransparent management of the construction of TES will be made public. The only guarantee for this is the unburdened new Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Omerzel, who said he would do anything to ensure that this project is managed transparently and in accordance with all the contracts from now on. Personally, I believe that the investment of TES has become overburdened over the course of six years due to politicisation and the oversimplification of political plots, lobbying and interests without any comprehensive and complete factual data on which all these lobbies could lean. The oil poured on the fire was both part of the right and part of the left policy option, and I am sorry that the very politicization of the construction of TES 6 in Parliament has been subject to Parliament too many times. It was precisely this politicisation that further created new uncertainties about the construction of the sixth block. Despite the different opinions on the usefulness and purpose of the TES 6 project, we have always argued that transparency in managing the investment is the first criterion to be met if we want the construction of TES 6 to maintain at least minimal credibility, which is justified or unjustifiably affected by the same construction opponents. But I have to say, it's because of my partial and own interests. Therefore, I believe that the dilemmas concerning the possible lack of transparency in the construction of TES 6 must be clarified within the competent institutions. Let's move everyone out of the floor and if the trash are of different colors, they can be red, they can be green, they can be blue, they can be cleaned up, and those who have blamed any matter in this investment should be able to answer. The proposal for recommendations made by the SDS Group in the framework of the request for today's extraordinary meeting requires, in particular, an expert and less political discussion, which we have received too much since the beginning of the TES 6 Investment Talk. I'm afraid without the right results, I must say. This does not mean that or that the policy must be fully withdrawn from this project, after all, the construction of TES 6 is strongly integrated with the 440 million guarantees provided by this country and confirmed by the National Assembly. I would also welcome here a communication from the competent minister, Mr Omerzel, that the state does not consider withdrawing this guarantee and that the Ministry intends to prepare a report on the state of the project in the course of today's meeting. However, I think that the debate on the Block 6 project must remove the politics that we have witnessed both on the left and on the right in the past too much. I hope that today this will be the case and that the debate will take place in the spirit of constructive proposals and opinions that will help to make the construction of Block 6 more effective and efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The delegation's position will also be presented by the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, and a nice greeting to everyone! About the project TEŠ 6, one of the biggest investments in Slovenia, unfortunately we all find out how poorly this project was run and how dear it became. I think this is typical of most of the investments made or controlled by this country. Unfortunately, similar practices are everywhere, so there is no rational governance in our state-owned companies, public procurement – not just here. Let's see what happened on the highway project. All experts have found that at least a billion and a half have been overpaid by what we have built in the last 15 years. For example, we behave awkwardly on the other side of the railways. We just can't make a deal. The money's waiting for us, but we can't figure out where and how we don't know how and we don't know how to accept the plans and we could still list it. In all public procurements, I have already said many times, we are practically losing more than a billion euros a year because of various such interests under the table. We also lose a billion euros a year in state-owned companies, and then we try to balance the public balance sheets. It's the only place where there's such a big hole. In TES 6 – I have not been particularly deepened – but I have not seen one good project at a time, not at the beginning, economically and technically, from a financial point of view, from a very clear point of view, but also from a very clear point of view, what is the maturity of credits, what is repayment, what gross value added will be generated, when the investment will be reimbursed and so on. We don't know how to give ourselves one basic starting point, one dynamic forward, for the next 20, 30, 40 years, as long as this facility operates and pours itself pure wine what it will bring. The observation, when already 85% of those completed to stop the project, is simply a waste. Even if we find that the project will bring loss in the future – the situation is changing very quickly here, the price of energy is changing very quickly. In any case, the project must be put on the market as quickly as possible, as cost-effectively as possible, in order to start work and even if it were in a loss-making business, it will be able to repay the loans in at least some way so that the state will not have to cash out the guarantees. I do not believe exactly all these calculations, because just years ago – in 2000, I remember, I was at the Ministry of Economics and we reviewed the results of the operation of the electricity system last year and I remember the figure that we had, noted 144 billion tolars of loss. Amortisation was simply accounted for in a strange way, and the following year the same system brought a similar number of profits in the results. I also know that sometimes energy policies, where there has been no free electricity market, have been determined. I'm just saying, the price from the Drava power plants was, say, 2.9 tolls per kilowatt, 25 from the coal mine and 65 from the Brestanica gas plant. This was only used for turn-on when there was no other thermal power plant. In some ways, planned prices have been agreed and the results have been planned in different areas. I know we can't decide to stop the construction and that the only logic and the only point is to get things started as quickly as possible. Let this story be a lesson to all of us, that we do not really know about public money, do we not want or deliberately do not know how to govern well. That's a really big problem. The last few days are a debate on the privatisation of state property. I've always said it would be wiser to run and activate this property to bring more. We know that in all these state-owned companies, which are often monopolistic, we create at least two to three times the gross added value of an employee, such as the average of the European Union. Only after such results had been achieved would companies be reasonably determined to sell. However, I have given up on this because with no way of managing and managing this state property, we do not know whether or not we want to achieve this in order to actually start managing well and to achieve good results in this work. Privatisation will also need to be accelerated. It will probably also make sense to think about carrying this burden, this investment to look for those things and positively show up and maybe find some buyer who will take over this facility, finance it and then market it further. In short, in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette – I listened attentively to the Minister and I think he said very well that there is no other way than to support these proposals, these conclusions which the Committee has adopted. In fact, more control should be made, construction accelerated and the object should be brought to its final stage as soon as possible. My colleague Han also said that at the moment we do not see one thing in all these audit and various institutions. The only thing that can be done here in the State Council is that if they go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, supervise and take appropriate action until the end of the phase, that is the only thing we can do here in the National Council of Smarts, so we will support these conclusions. We hope that such stories will not be repeated in the future. I don't understand. Remember when we were building small buildings and it was always necessary to set up a control team at the choice of the contractor, technical supervision, which monitored the construction both from a technical point of view and from a price perspective, and it was to the investor in some way. I don't know how it's happening now that we're controlling ourselves. I think the investor as a state-owned company has actually done too little to control construction more deeply and to be more careful about signing unnecessary contracts under this. What needs to be done is done. It seems to me that a great deal of millions of euros in this cup have been released for things that were not needed or paid for by us without need, and this has encouraged investment, but it has not been said that many have filled their own pockets with this. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the conclusions and hope that the project will be completed as soon as possible and will begin to return the money to both those who have borrowed it and to the Treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mr. Visac, do you have a procedure? As a proponent. So you're applying first as a proposalr. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As a proposaler, I would just like to respond to some of the announcements and views of the Minister, Mr Omerzel. He pointed out that he had been on this site for three months, and he would like to expose his visa to the following. He said that this investment was catastrophically watered. I even agree with him. I hope that the competent authorities, including the anti-corruption commission's investigation and others, will determine the responsibility of those who run this project. We have already tracked certain activities, and so is the case. I fully agree with this that this project has been led by disaster, very badly and we must not allow this to continue. It was also said that we had the wrong information. There's my first dilemma. That we had them or that we still had the wrong information — this possibility must also be allowed. It is necessary to allow the possibility that the current leadership does not lead us into pouring wine and possibly is misleading us, I do not know. Why do I say that? The thermal power plant Šostanj has developed a new investment programme, NIP 5. This new investment programme has, of course, set the value of an investment to EUR 302 million. This document was made out of a KPMG review made by thirteen experts with names and surnames and professional references in it. Thirteen experts found no mention of significant shortcomings in the NIP 5, which limits the investment to EUR 302 million. We have a statement from the former leadership, Mr Tot, specifically that it is possible to make this investment under EUR 302 million, which is on the one hand, and we have, the honourable Minister, information from this current leadership that it is not possible to do so for a billion 440 million. You have put yourself or not just you, including the Government, aside from the information of the current leadership. Why? Because you are in the conclusions of yesterday, which the majority of the coalition committee unfortunately also confirmed today that the investment will exceed the framework outlined. Why would I beat them? We have an updated investment programme that has been reviewed and we have a position on those who have already led this project. This is said to be whether all of us on this side are misleading and the value of the investment is actually higher than the figures and signatures say, whether the statement of the current leadership is more relevant. I believe that at least what is necessary is to have a level of distrust at the same level as all of them, so I would never agree that I am in your skin to give a blank menu to the current leadership, to encourage the project and you have done so by taking the decision that you are already aware without any reasonable arguments, without, say, a revised NIP 6 that would be subject to at least such reviews, and say the investment will be encouraged by so much. I myself would stop the upper limit of investment in accordance with the law adopted in this House and would not say in advance that this investment will be higher, and here is the only serious difference between our conclusions and recommendations in this debate. For you have very clearly defined in the conclusions that the Government and the National Assembly, which supports the decisions of the Government, note that the project does not provide performance in time and price frameworks as defined. I think he has to provide them as long as the guarantee law says so. Therefore, my question is to you, on the basis of which you estimate that the value of the investment will be higher than EUR 302 million, on the basis of which the reviewed opinions are based, you assess this and how much higher it will be. I hope that if you've written down that a billion 302 million isn't enough to go beyond that, then you know how much she's going to get.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u33	Mr. Minister, Mr. only Omerzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Mr Vizjak, I don't even know how to begin to answer this question, because we had this debate at the meeting this morning and you are repeating the same sentences again today. I have a feeling you didn't listen to me before I spoke. What I'm saying on the basis of the data I've had so far, based on the documents I have so far, is that this project has not become irritable, but that it costs so much from the very beginning. But to be able to operate and make clear decisions, I need exactly what you're saying. I need an independent institution, an international expert, not a KPMG, which will confirm that mathematics within NIP 5 is correct, but someone who will review the whole concept, I'm talking about the whole project, I'm talking about the whole operation of TES 6. On that basis, I was able to assess what was real and what was not real. I agree with you that what the previous leadership has claimed and what the current leadership has claimed is not merciless for me to be able to decide. There will be a review, a review, a thorough review of the entire operation of an independent international institution, which will give me the right information on the table to which I can trust, and I will not repeat the error you made when you accepted what you accepted on the basis of the NIP 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u36	I don't know what you've been reading to me that we've accepted on the basis of the NIP 5. I wasn't an MP, I didn't vote on a lot of things, you probably think of someone else. See, Minister, if you are skeptical of the assessments that are in the new investment programme and in the KPMG review, as well as the current statements or what you have yourself come up with when you have reviewed the documentation, why are you then on the basis of this scepticism, which is not confirmed by the review and opinion of an independent international expert, you have already found that the value of the investment will be higher. I would not have come to this conclusion so quickly, I would have left it at this value that Parliament has confirmed, and possibly corrected it when I was convinced of this on the basis of the documents that you obviously want to obtain. I strongly support that you will obtain the documents, because even when I have reviewed the review, I find that you have looked at the number of things through mathematical models, not through some real display of the energy situation and images. I fully agree with you, but I want to say what we have when we make a decision. And you have made a decision to make the project more expensive than a billion and 302 million. This is probably what you proposed to the Government yesterday that it accepted that the investment would go beyond these frameworks, obviously on the basis of some feeling or some of your internal opinions, but not on the basis of some relevant findings of the professional institutions. Well, if that's what I'm saying, that's the way it is. I think it's dangerous. Why? If there is no pressure on the upper limit of the investment, then this investment can be auctioned and auctioned in the future. For we have already read so much from correspondence, even in the media, during the lead, many clauses are so extensive in contracts, there are certain opportunities for imitation in already signed contracts. I am afraid that if the current government and the National Assembly do not make a very clear commitment under the serious limits of these investments to some value until they have other reviewed data that these data apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text has been reported by the discussers, the first one has been reported by the mag. Andrej Shircelj, followed by Mr. Jakob the Presester.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister of Economy, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I must tell you the truth that I first met this issue and also some big energy issue about a year ago when the Finance Committee considered a special guarantee law for the Šostanj Termoelectrica. At that time, Mr Ambassador Srečko Meh was the first to sign this law. There was, of course, a lot of zeal, support for this project and, in fact, this debate took place in three sequels. Various opinions, different opinions from different groups, both advocates and opponents of this project, have been addressed in these three proceedings. However, it was certainly at these meetings, and there was also much to be said, the invited leadership of TES and, of course, of HSE. We all know what the final plot was, and it was the final schedule for the state to guarantee this project, which means that the country takes part of the risk for EUR 440 million to the European Investment Bank. At that time, it was said that this was a key issue for the continuation of the project. If this does not happen, then there will be no credits from the European Bank for reconstruction and development, and there will be no other projects. In short, that was a key question. And then, I have to say that I have acquired or was given about a meter and a half of the documentation that stated: the eligibility of this project, the price and all the assumptions on which this project can actually work. Of course, I am also interested here in whether all assumptions are still in force today, from the price of coal to what will be the benefit, what will be the return on this project and so on. At that time it was provided by the management of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj that the price of 130 million was the final price at which it could be added. There were a lot of doubts back then, and we were looking at different positions, but – today I went to see all the magnetograms, about 80 to 90 pages of them all, and the price of a billion 302 million was then explained as final. If that is not the case today, someone was deceiving the National Assembly and giving false information. And here we need to know that some Members voted in favour of this project on the basis of such information and also more than 16 hours or 20 hours of debate did not reach the goal of actually being able to re-examine it, stop it or do anything. Therefore, the responsibility, responsibility of all those who led the project and those who signed the contracts must be established in relation to this project. Also such contracts that subcontractors charged their services to TES and TES simply, uglyly Slovenianly said, prefactored and added 35% of commission at the beginning of 2009, followed by 25, 15%. This is supposed to be reduced and the final amount of this commission is expected to be 14.5 million euros today after the then assurances and I wonder whether this will actually work. For this reason, I think there is no reason for this price to increase in any way, and there is no reason for anything else to happen here. But I would like to mention something else — the background of the entire debate that I was personally involved in. I certainly got a message from someone that a media lynching this meeting is preparing a media lynch, even against me. Part of this media lynch was made in a certain newspaper. That there were three specific institutions that were working on how to get this project through – I finally reported it to the anti-corruption commission. Then it mentions how someone wants to buy it cheap, which individuals are behind it and so on. You can look at this in one of the Slovenian newspapers from then on. In short, I also draw attention to the background of this project. Who's behind the lobby? They're different lobbies and there's more, they've already been published in the newspapers. And for these lobbies and these individuals and institutions, there are no rules, and I must simply tell the current minister that he will probably meet them once if he does not do what they want. Secondly, when we talk about these things, I would like to say that when we do these analyses, one way or another, the question is, of course, who ordered them and who ordered some analyses that are today unworthy, which can be said to give the result that 1 and 1 is equal to 2 but do not talk about content. And someone paid for it. He could have paid them completely deliberately, purposefully in this context, that he said: look at this, and you can't look at this. I think that in these debates today, all the backgrounds will wake up if they are not already awake, if information is not already spreading, and on this basis the whole debate will work. However, a billion 302 million is the final price. We here on behalf of taxpayers cannot and cannot increase this price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare for him Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know where to start given that I know the project in a global way, and since we've discussed it several times in the last good year. But I will start in the back when Mr. Minister, I think he has pointed out twice today that the project has cost so much since the very beginning. That's a pretty serious charge, I think. I don't know. Nobody's had a lot of trouble with that statement. But in my opinion, this is a serious accusation against all those who run this project, from representatives of TES, Holding, and ultimately the ministries responsible for energy in all these governments. It has been pointed out several times that this is certainly the largest investment as an individual investment, that it is also part of the National Assembly – but I point out that unfortunately the National Assembly was involved or started to discuss the issue of TES when we discussed the guarantee, that it started only a good year ago, although our colleague was already trying to thoroughly discuss this investment in 2009 and perhaps helped to make the investment more transparent. We have quite a problem, let us remember, with all these investments, let this be a highway programme where I was more involved, and this highway programme has become more intense because of the tremendous increase in the scope of this programme, because of the difficulties of putting into space, because of the extraordinary demands of local and regional communities and so on. Some other things were probably less legal, but I say that, above all, the first ones were much more. We have a TES that we have been dealing with for the second or third time. After all, we also have big projects on the Lower Sava, because it would also be good there when we figure out that we have comprehensive ideas about a particular energy project. In view of the fact that it has been repeatedly stressed that HSE is a key investor in the Lower and Central Sava, I would particularly like to see projects prepared for the Central Sava – on these projects there is an opportunity for the investment programme to be realistic, to include all the elements of investment in all areas and to be able to say that, finally, that initial investment in the investment programme is also about final investment. Today we are considering a proposal for recommendations prepared by the Committee. The recommendations in themselves are good, including a summary of the Government's recommendations, such as the state of the project, such as the request or proposal for a revision of the project, such as the proposal for further steps in managing these investments and determining the actual situation, the impact of the changed situation on the electricity market as well, one of the points is the legality of the conduct of all those who have so far been involved in this investment. However, there is certainly no part that has been mentioned earlier, and I have not yet followed the amendment, and I will certainly support it, where only a request should be made for the investment to remain within the framework of the National Assembly exactly one year ago, 18 July – today we are 16. - I've also accepted it. Otherwise, I do not see the need for those who are currently running the project to make a special effort to get the investment to this level. The closure of the investment has already been mentioned. I'm sure it wasn't the time of year or year before, but I'm sure it's even less today. Surely I am not among those who want to see a huge monument to human stupidity in Scotland — but I do not know whether those who run this project or those who make such and similar decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat and then Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u42	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to ministers with co-workers, including colleagues and colleagues. In particular, I have a memory of this mandate and of the previous term. In fact, we discussed this issue in the National Assembly. Some of you have spoken in detail, specifically with dates, which is why I will not repeat. But it always comes to me, already in the previous term and even now – of course now even more – whether we have any chance of taking a step back then and now. In my opinion, we did not have this option, despite the fact that individuals, even in comparison with a nuclear power plant in Austria, are saying that this could be done. There's been a huge setback in this project. And I'm going to mention the ones that I've been especially aware of. In my opinion, the project was poorly or clumsyly guided. This is the first thing, but it's not just my grades, it's those who get to know the project more, and I can actually read from them. The prices of this project were constantly rising. The deadlines for completion have been constantly extended, and those responsible have been able to skilfully overlap all governments and the public with what is happening in this project. It is estimated that the real price at this point is €1 billion and a half. The deadline for completion is supposed to be real, 2017. TES reportedly took full responsibility for this investment and took all the risks as well as the penalty. However, he did not require those who carried out their duties and that they pay delays due to non-compliance and, of course, that they also pay for what they did not do well in carrying out the project. It is said that a reduction in the implementation of the project in one month means or will save EUR 3.5 million. If that's true, then we need to keep an eye on it for a short time. What do those responsible do in this matter? Here I think of the most responsible and also those who have the function of auditor and supervisors. Deception of those responsible in this case is indeed a masterpiece which, according to my opinion, is now behind us and even in the future will not be in Slovenia and which is not a couple. It is true that we have supported the TES 6 project in our parliamentary group all the time, mainly because of the social aspect and because we have somehow concluded that we need energy self-sustainment. In the valley of Shaleska, there are many people who have their jobs, and this has led us to support the project from this social point of view. We expect the Government, from those responsible in HSE and TES, to closely monitor the implementation of the project in the future, otherwise than they have done so far. The Republic of Slovenia must carry out an investment audit, the State Defence Office together with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance to prepare a report on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC bodies as soon as possible. In the event of irregularities, those responsible must be brought before the time limit of justice. This is what we demand in this Chamber, probably in the majority, and especially our citizens and citizens. From those responsible, I would like to know which projects outside TES 6 were financed, if any, and at what amount. Here I think mainly of different roads, circles, plumbing, sewers and so on. How much public money did it waste? It's huge, it's nobody's fault! On the other hand, we would reduce the rights of citizens, or we should reduce them and increase taxes in order to survive the country. Can I ask you, how much money would you have for an allowance or for a recreational allowance for poor pensioners who are actually on the verge of survival or who live below the poverty line? A lot. And it speaks eloquently of how I personally feel about this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I will begin with a statement developed by my distinguished colleague, Franz Jurša, when he spoke of the fact that many times, or perhaps always, the government and parliament have not received the right relevant information. I recall the secondary definition that information is an essential element in the decision-making process. However, decision-making is an essential component of governance. How should we, colleagues and colleagues, today and also in the past, and probably in the future, make a relevant decision on the investment of TES 6 and ask ourselves whether we have real, real information on the table, because all others that are not real, which are not real, are not information. Mr Minister himself said that he must first scan the matter by an independent international institution, so that he could not make any decisions until then. But, Minister, you have my support when you said on 30 May – the STA – that the investment TES 6 should not exceed EUR 1.3 billion. What we actually wrote in the law of guarantee. Today, I am particularly pleased that the New Slovenia Group as the only parliamentary group of the National Assembly voted in full against the guarantee law for TES 6. This was July 18th, so in two days it will be the first anniversary of this law when the National Assembly gave a guarantee of 440 million euros. At that time, we also wrote in the law the limited value of the investment, which is, as I have already said, 1.3 billion euros and additionally, which we may not have said today that the price of lignite should not exceed 2.25 euros per gigojoule – this is also an important matter. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when I collect information, when I read newspapers, when I read various material, then my thoughts come to an end and I claim that TES 6 is the new New Ljubljana Bank. Maybe with some reduction factor of 0.5, 0.7, 0.3, but believe me, this investment that many of you have already given her is going to be felt by our children, by our grandchildren. At the beginning, when the electricity price was projected, the estimate was estimated to be somewhere between 50 and 60 euros per megawatt-hour. When I'm browsing the eex.com website today, it's the European Energy Exchange, and I'm looking at forecasts, there until, let's say, in 2019, when I hope this TES 6 will be operational, but unfortunately, today's forecast is only two years away, it's not until 2017 that it's supposed to be operational. And when I look at these prices, the prices are around €35.39 per megawatt hour. Here is the problem and because of these forecasts I have predicted that TES 6 is the new New Ljubljana Bank, because it means that it will practically operate each year with a loss, unless electricity prices change dramatically over the next 5 years, which is probably not going to change if the European economy wants to be competitive. Let's look at electricity prices in the United States. In fact, here are my great concerns that every year from the state budget or that those who will sit here in the National Assembly will have to collect money from their pockets so that they can even ensure the functioning, operation of TES 6. Maybe some more price information. See, on Saturday the price of electricity was 31.94 euros per megawatt hour, on the weekend, it is Saturday and Sunday, clearly significantly lower – only good 25 euros per megawatt hour. The 30th week of this year is 32.2 euros per megawatt hour, forecast for August is 33.9, forecast for the fourth quarter of 2013 39.3 euros per megawatt hour. And the forecast for 2014 – 37.57. The investment TES 6 was again made with a 50 plus price forecast, between €50 and €60 per megawatt hour. These incentives, which is forecast to be some 140 million euros, I think we should really not allow and that the National Assembly, as a legislator, should insist on a limited investment value under the guarantee law. Minister, this is where we ask you and we pledge to insist. Besides, I've calculated, like my colleague Jurš for the pension population, I'm on my own for the pomurska, for the Pomurje. See, 140 million is 24 times more than Pomurje should receive each year under the pomurje law – under the pomurski law – this is the law that has to be in force – or 50 times more than after the rebalancing gets Pomurje because it now receives only 2.8 million for this year. Such are these relations, and probably also because of this obsession with investment or poorly managed investment TES 6 there will be no investment in the exploitation of the Mure hydropotential and other exploitation, such as for tourist purposes and so on. It is said that TES 6 will bring new jobs. He won't. It won't, because then Block 4 will shut down and it'll cool off, if I say so, Block 5 and the number of jobs will be smaller. Perhaps a word or two more about the possible disproportionately financial negative effects of this investment. This is actually an additional tax that will cost coal, and that is 2,000 700 short lives. Life, though, has an infinite value. The treatment can be evaluated and read in Slovenian newspapers today, not only today, but all this time, what negative effects on human health, but not only those who live and live around this thermoelectric power plant, but also others, will have this unfortunate coal. Here I'm reading, I'm not going to list all kinds of diseases, say strokes, lower intellectuals, central nervous system disorders, then heart attacks, arrhythmias, heart disease, and so on. [[advertising from the hall]] Lord Meh, you can mock – yes, even in Prekmurje. I'm talking about financial effects, Mr. Meh, on purpose, I didn't mention your law before, which is not yours, but you took it down and you were very vehemently defending it, showing us only good characteristics and good contributions for Slovenian society when TES 6 starts operating. I believe you're coming from that environment and you can't even point at the negatives, but now that you're past the microphone and maybe a little rudely warning me that I'm coming from Prekmurje – of course this will also feel in Prekmurje, that's perfectly normal. Look, I'm concluding that I don't know what conclusions a person would support today because I initially said that I don't know if the information we have on the table is really information. However, I am waiting for the Minister's reports or the report of this international institution, which is supposed to show what is happening in the investment TES 6 but unfortunately the train has already taken off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Mr Bevk alone and then Mr Marko Pavlišič follow him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! I'll start a little differently. We are all wondering what to do right now, and we are all talking about the history of this project. I think that the history of this project started much earlier, and this project was probably already installed in some electricity programme in 1994, 1995, and so on. It came to the programme and to the resolution at a time when the environment and the conditions of use were appropriate. At the moment, this investment was certainly justified, in 2005, 2006, when the electricity economy needed its own care, they were probably considering some projects that were acceptable at the moment. And it is not to be forgotten that the project was prepared in an economic sense at that moment with resources that the electricity economy could in some way provide. This was true until 2008 or until the investment programme increased from a billion to 400. It was only then that the state and the guarantee entered as such, since the European Investment Bank was no longer prepared to support such a large investment without any guarantee. So, we can't talk about the missing project from the start. It's a mistake who thinks that, I don't think he's speaking in the right direction. Now, of course, these are the dilemmas that the Minister has been talking about, and here one really wonders which data is relevant. The Minister spoke about us deciding on the wrong data, but I think that Members of the National Assembly can decide on the basis of the documents we receive on the table and the information we have available. You, too, Mr Minister, said for the first time at a meeting in May, when we were on both committees, on finance and infrastructure, that your position was that it was unacceptable to increase the level of investment. Now you are thinking in some other way and the conclusions that you have proposed are going in this direction, that somehow you already accept in advance, that perhaps someone has made a mistake from before. You are talking again about the need for an external institution to verify all this and we do not trust any KPMG and also the IREET is listed as an institute for research in energy, ecology and technology and so on. These documents have signatories, they have responsible persons, and on the basis of these documents, someone has decided to issue a guarantee, and that is what we were Members of. In the case of banks in the Government, it is not appropriate to take a foreign auditor and defend an auditor. Now, in the case of TES, you say that it is most appropriate for a foreign auditor to look at this. I'm a little worried and surprised. The Government, which later signed the guarantee documents, also requested these audits and ensured that the data underlying the adoption of the guarantee law were also valid, and I think that the declarations made by both Holding Slovenian Power Plants and the Termoelectrica Šoštanj with signatures where they made the declaration were valid and that the value of the coal that was to be provided at 2,25 euros for gigajoules was relevant. Thus, the Members had no basis to question this information, which was signed on the table. Similarly, several criminal charges against those responsible in the previous suit in the Šostanj Termoelectricarium and also HSE were launched at that time. These were all the grounds for us to decide whether or not to confirm the guarantee law. At the time, we had some material on the table. I think the colleague talked about what big files were and on this basis the guarantee law was also passed. We are now deciding on the basis of your assurance that everyone previously knew that this investment was different from what is in the paper and which is guaranteed by someone with a signature. I think that this is not a good approach, and it is difficult on the basis of such assurance to believe – I think you are well aware of things in April, when you were in some matter, in the matter with your Secretary of State Žagar, where some of the infrastructure-related transactions were also discussed, and where it was not very transparent and credible on your part, even the head of SD Matjaž Han's Group said: "This connection between Žagar and Mr Omerzel is also reflected in coalition parties. If in what the media reported on Minister Omerzel in connection with Žagar, only a percentage of the truth, it is very bad for the Government and they both have to step down." It's a quote from the diary, and it's not that far back, a month. Now you come and explain to us that due to some transparency and credibility, you have to believe that this investment is different from what we see in the documents and how we got it when we decided on the guarantee. I do not think anything bad, and I agree with my colleague Visian, that before anything changes like that on your part, it would be right for you to get some kind of credible document – talk about the NIP 6 – which will be revised and then this will be the basis for changing our decisions that we have made, not by a large majority – I think that 29 Members were for the guarantee to be confirmed. At this point, I think they made the right decision, because the investment was already so far away that any stopping would be more expensive for this country. It would therefore be right that before the Government decides and changes its position and according to your decision you are already changing it, because in the conclusion you find that the project does not provide time and price frameworks. Based on what you assume is not true, I don't know. I think it is still necessary to adopt a decision at today's meeting to confirm what we have already decided in the National Assembly and which has also been decided on as a guarantee for the number of three hundred and several thousand. And also those obligations that were in the guarantee contract signed by the Government and the then Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure, where the investor was also bound by all the additional measures that must be implemented, must remain in force. If we are going to change things, it means that it deviates from all these conditions, not only from the maximum value of the facility, but in this case it also deviates from the emission conditions, from the conditions regarding the value of coal and others which are misled in this Treaty. I would therefore recommend that, before you talk about any changes, you first get what you have mentioned, a peer review report, and until then I suggest that we also find in the National Assembly that there is no basis for changing our decision on the price and conditions given to the investor by the guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Samo Bevk, Mr Marko Pavlisic, and then Mr Brane Golubovic, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A respected choir! Slovenia has the ideal ratio of electricity production. About a third of it is produced in hydroelectric power plants, about a third is produced at the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and approximately a third of electricity is produced in thermal power plants. If we had a completely new investment in a new thermal power plant today and asked where it would be placed in Slovenia, I believe no one would want to have it, because people in the Savinijsko-Shale valley paid a very large tax due to this production. The Velenski Coal Mine has been operational since 1875. The thermal power plant began operating shortly after World War II. What are the consequences for people for this environment? Three lakes were built there because of the sinking of coal: Skalsko, Sodžmirsko, Velenj Lake. No more settlements, no more mud, no more Druzmira, 2,000 people had to move to other places, villages were disappearing. This was a big tax, and it is a big tax for this area, and it does not surprise me that the local authorities are fighting for this investment. But I'm seeing an interesting process today. Members and ministers of the Slovenian Democratic Party, don't mind me too much, they become very smart at once and have answers to all the questions when they land in the opposition. Let us take a look at the time 7 years ago when the Janšev government adopted the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007 to 2023 on 12 October 2006. This document contains 35 projects worth €24 billion. Among them is the investment in the thermal power plant Šostanj, in Block 6. In this document, which was welcomed by the government on 12 October 2006, this investment is estimated at EUR 602 million. Although there have been numbers in the media all the time that the investment was initially worth €660 million, we can still read this in the newspapers today, let us say in a very nice review of this investment, which was published today in the newspaper Del. It says that this investment amounted to EUR 660 million in 2006. But this is supposed to be just technology equipment. And now, if we look at the investment in this document, EUR 602 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. 1 in 2007, it is said that after one year of this document under the Janša government, it has increased to a billion €70 million. In one year, the Janshea government increased from €602 million to €70 million, by €470 million. Is this some kind of planning? If we look at other investments in this pool, let's say 9 economic centres. I think it was real performed and prime in Goriška. They are estimated from 100 to 160 million. Or, say, Slovenia's Adriatic island in front of Isola, then estimated at 100 million euros – where is this island today? Or, say, investments in the rail network, 8.8 billion euros. Or investments in modernisation of the state road network, a billion and a half euros. Thus, these projects were easily evaluated at the time. And what did the then president of the government present at the press conference after the government meeting in 2006? He said that the new economic centres would bring 17,000 new jobs, that this is an opportunity for the development of 2 000 small and medium-sized enterprises to remain key projects in the field of energy and the construction of road and rail infrastructure. And what were the other predictions, specific predictions then? Let's see what the situation is today, but then the Prime Minister of the Government said that the implementation of these projects will increase the purchasing power of the population by 3.3% by 2010. By 2013, it is today, and by 6.8%. By 2008, the projects envisaged in the resolution were intended to open up 12,000 new jobs and reduce the number of unemployed by 15,000. In 2013, 50,000 new jobs were to be opened and the number of unemployed persons was expected to decrease by 30,000 in 2013. Thus, the President of the Government in 2006 when he predicted the future. It's similar to the fate of the Shoštanj and Block 6. We have seen that in the first year of the Janša government has grown by 470 million euros. I'm sorry to have to say this, but in our country, we don't know how to lead or plan big investments. Not just in energy, let's look at investment in culture, in Oprah. How many times did she imitate herself? Let's look at the investments in the Oncology Institute in health. Let's look at the investments under the highway program. So I hope that this expensive school, called Block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica, will be a great school for all of us, including this current government, and I believe that we will meet again with this project. Also because we have today adopted an amendment to paragraph 2 of the Recommendation on the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to propose to the Government that by 30 November 2013 it report on the implementation of the decisions of the Government adopted at the 34th letter meeting of the Government, on 15 July 2013. These measures, which are envisaged and are to be implemented by the Government, are specified in Amendment No. 1 to the first point of the recommendation, so I believe that at least on the parental committee, and perhaps as a result at the National Assembly at the end of the year, we will meet again with this subject, and I believe that we will be able to say more encouraging words at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Here you go as a proponent, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Here was actually the question and the obvious that the project under the government of Janez Janša had risen from €680 million or €690 million to €70 million. All the information that Janez Janša’s government had — that is, I was an economic minister and was in charge of energy — came from the Italian thermal power plant or from an investor. At that time, we put in the resolution of the national projects known information on this level, and it was clear at that time that this value covered only the main technological equipment. Then the preparations for this investment went out. As early as autumn 2006, the Šostanj thermal power plant started with procedures, design and everything else, including the selection of the main technology equipment supplier. The new investment project 1 covered a figure of EUR 70 million for the entire investment, not only for the main technological equipment, but also for the main technological equipment, based on a relevant offer that was not available in 2006. Mr. Bevk knows that. And Mr Bevk is also well aware that it is impossible to compare and that the Government, which has never led this project, has put into its data and information the data it has received from the Šostanja Termoelectrica and no other data. So that some spilling of guilt over Janez Janša’s influence on this matter is simply not true because we compare the main technology equipment with a complete investment, which is essentially more than just the main technological equipment. Secondly, Mr Bevka also went to the analysis of the implementation of the Resolution on National Development Projects adopted in 2006, in fact as late as 2006, almost in 2007, with the Government of Borut Pahor implementing this resolution for three years from 2008. For no one has repealed this resolution, no government is and was relevant to all governments and is still relevant today. Just as we can point to the non-implementation of this resolution – by the way Block 6 has been quite well implemented, and there is also a project, including the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava – at the very least, it is necessary to ask all governments from then on to this day why the projects in the resolution, such as the Adriatic island and any other non-optimal ones, have not been implemented. See, the resolution of the national projects was a set of investments which the Government at the time considered to be prudent, reasonable to consider. A number of investments have also proved impossible during the study phase because the vast majority of investments, Mr Bevk, if you read in the resolution, were based on a private partner. The vast majority of investments, including the Adriatic island, were based on a private partner. There's another investment. If there is no private partner, of course, the investment was not optimally carried out. A number of economic centres were also linked to the external co-financing. There's a reason, and you probably have a reason, too, in your government, where you were in the coalition for not being. I have read the views of the former Minister of Economic Affairs, Mrs Radic, that the Phoenix project, which is also one of these economic centres, is not being implemented because it is not a private partner or private interest. It is now just to show all the way and one government to push on the cross that it is responsible for something not being implemented, with you ruling a longer period of implementation of the resolution than we are, of course, not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u51	Mr. Only Bevk asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In this document, which I have quoted and which I am now showing, there is also a description of this investment. The description of this investment does not say that it is about buying basic hardware, but writes the subject of the project: building Block 6 TEŠ. It is said that the entire investment is estimated at EUR 602 million. Of course, it will also be financed by private funds, as fully stated in this project, because the state has in fact given only the loan guarantee and I hope that this guarantee will never be cashed. But it really hurts me to operate on these numbers when it's said that 660 million was a valuable project in 2006, and then it's said that it's just equipment, and in one year this project is worth billions and 70 million, but it's all together. Today, the media report says that this project was worth 660 million in 2006 — not just equipment, all of it. And it's a deception to the public! People now think that what we are wasting is twice as much of this investment as the taxpayers are going to pay for it. They will pay if the guarantee is cashed, if it does not, and they will not, they will be private resources, as stated in this document. Three years ago, no one could predict what the price of electricity would be today. Nobody knew the price of electricity was going to fall by as much as it did now. All this stuff about prognosis, no one's a wizard to see what happens next. Who else, for example, did not talk about the crisis at the end of 2008. When we had elections in 2008 at the National Assembly, there was no talk of a crisis at all. That wasn't even the darkness. The crisis arose only two months later, at the end of 2008, and you then explained that there was no crisis in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u53	Thank you very much. As a proponent, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u54	Mr. Bevk, it's hard to follow. Now you've gone into a crisis and here you've assessed whether any government has assessed whether or not it will be a crisis. You used to jump on a resolution. You're jumping to the price once and for all. As far as the crisis is concerned in 2008, just read the chronology of decision-making in the National Assembly at the end of 2008. The former government of Janez Janša, when leaving the mandate, put in a parliamentary procedure and adopted four legislative proposals to deal with the crisis. You're saying she wasn't facing it and she claimed she wasn't. Moreover, we have also discussed at government meetings the report of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, how and by what measures to respond to the coming economic crisis. And you're saying that someone was missing at the time and couldn't predict it. It's one of these structures you've stuck in your brain, and now you're repeating it like a parrot. This is simply not true because the documents in the National Assembly prove otherwise, and even if you read the agendas of the 2008 government and the National Assembly, you will find that this is different. As for the main technology equipment, the data that the then government had put in the documents. It was given on the basis of information from an investor or investment vehicle, the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. And I attach to many that this investor has very often deceived all the authorities, the Government, the National Assembly, to make investments just to get to the next stage of this project. Many members of your parliamentary group, especially those behind your back, knew this very well and supported it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u55	Mr. Bevk, please. It's a replica. It's not a replica. It's a prop.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'll be very brief. Mr Member, former mayor, I would like to ask the multiple Minister to speak more respectfully to his colleagues. I don't have anything sealed in my brain and so on. Please, my friend, you're more worthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next debater, Mr Marko Pavlišič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Four governments and three parliaments have changed since the start of this project and we have somehow come to the point that we do not know exactly where we are and how we would move forward. In fact, we do not know whether this project is worth completing, not only because of what happened to TES, even because of external influences, is it due to changes in markets, due to external changes, but we do not even know whether it will pay to operate at all. After seven years, we return to the point that we have proposed before the previous elections, before the year and a half, where we have made it clear that we need to look at the situation as quickly as possible and independently, by independent, specialised international agencies, what the situation is and what we can do with it, what we will do with it. We talked about this a year and a half ago. Apparently, he had to come to the right ministry, to the right ministry of our party, so that we could go on as we should have done before, with the help of an international independent, specialised company, to prepare an overview of possible options and a proposal for further steps with the investment in Block 6 TES and TES. This is the third indent of the first point of the proposed conclusions. The maximum value of the project, €302 million 492 thousand 300, is a beautiful wish and I am pleased that you have a candidate who is willing to do so. I believe that we will find some more candidates who are also 10% cheaper to make this happen, only that they will be with this project. I believe so. Only these are nice desires, but from desire to realization is usually a long way to go, as we all know. NIP 5 and review of this. It would be fair for the reviewer to state his full name, namely KPMG, d. o. o., Ljubljana. The subscriber of the review is TEŠ, d. o. o. So the person who prepared the NIP 5 then ordered a review of that and then got this review that he ordered. But it is interesting to look at the contents of this review, which Mr Visjak kindly lent me to see what was written in it. It states that the review shows time deviations from projections and that some deficiencies from the NIP 4 to NIP 5 review have been corrected. Some of the known derogations were abolished at the time. Why were not all the derogations that were already known removed, and why, I will say, did this reviewer give such a kind assessment? Then further, what the reviewer notes is that it would make sense to show the critical path of the project. Whoever has ever run a project knows that the critical path of the project is essentially that core of the project itself. The whole project is somehow crawling around this critical path, and I can safely say that a project without a critical path is not a project. It's a list of some tasks that need to be done, and we can't call this a project. However, we continue to do what is stated in the review prepared by KPMG, d. o. o. Ljubljana. "It would also make sense to indicate all the key events and obligations of the investor with time limits." The reviewer concluded that neither the key events nor the time-limit obligations of the investor are mentioned in NIP 5. Yeah, well, what's found in NIP 5 if there's no such key stuff in there. And further on from the point of view, the timetable, as set out in the NIP 5, is still realistic. We are missing the critical path of the project, we are missing the key events, we are missing the investor's obligations with time limits, but the deadline is still good, it is still achievable. I mean, I have some serious doubts here about how much KPMG, d. o. o., from Ljubljana is done correctly by order of TES, d. o. o. Here we can only speculate on what the review would be like if we didn't order the TES, but if the government had ordered it. Much, much more satisfied with the review and would have believed it if the Government had already accepted this review, rather than having accepted this review, which was commissioned by TES, to have an international independent and specialised company prepare a review of possible options and review of further steps related to the investment of TES Block 6 and TES – it would have been much more credible at that time. Last but not least, I'd like to mention the resources that are in this review. There is no single source among the sources from which the reviewer would at least indicate that he has also looked at the relevance of the costs associated with technological equipment. Not a single resource to assess whether the construction costs are reasonably estimated. No source is specified from which the reviewer could assess whether the costs of editing are correctly assessed. The reviewer looked at some of the numbers they gave him, he looked at, he can discount values, he can estimate certain flows, but it's not enough to know whether these costs are properly evaluated or not. To emphasise – yes, I wish that this billion 300 million would really be that maximum, and I believe that this government and this minister will do everything they can to stay on that number or that we will lower it. When this reviewed NIP 5 is so magnified, we must not forget another fact that before the reviewed NIP 5, there was also a NIP 4 and, look at the fraction, it was also reviewed. Moreover, prior to the NIP 4, NIP was 3, and this was also reviewed. In short, how much is now worth a peer review of the NIP, if after the NIP 3, which was reviewed – the previous ones were – after the NIP 3 was still NIP 4, which was also reviewed and after it we received the NIP 5, which was reviewed, but now we could have doubted how much these reviews are worth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There was a mag in the debate. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u60	I have never heard a Member review KPMG for the first time. In fact, I am very happy about this, but in doing so a person must not deceive, because here it was in some mocking or even exclusionary sense, that it is KPMG Slovenia d. o. o. I would also read this audit report, and if the Member read it, I could also read that KPMG, d.o.o., is a Slovenian limited liability company and a KPMG member of a network of independent member companies associated with the Swiss association KPMG International and so on. Do you think they give their brand KPMG to anyone so that on behalf of this audit house whatever it says can be done, respected, regardless of the fact that we have repeatedly experienced the discreditation of Slovenian companies from the National Gazette. That's one thing. The second point, if the Member had been corrected, would have read the conclusions of KPMG Slovenia, d. o. o., in general. He mentioned some details, but the general conclusion was deliberately overlooked, where it states that, on the basis of the methodology found and so on, they estimate that the revised NIP 5 investment programme is prepared comprehensively and in general at the appropriate level and so on. Full and appropriate! See, honourable Member, if you think that we are going to believe more that this audit is wrong, or that you are simply wrong to the Minister that his assessment is different from that of the updated investment programme that has experienced the KPMG review. However, you have something that probably NIP 6 will show something else again, I hope that even lower prices, and that this will also be reviewed and that will then really be the basis for some further discussion. I do not, however, want anyone, even if it is a minister or a Member, to give and raise and inflate the price that was set at 1,302 million euros in this Parliament, to say one billion 302 million euros. That's not what I want. Our dissension, Your Honor, is just that. And the honourable Member of the National List, if you had so much to say about the scepticism, about the basis for the guarantee contract, that it is unrealistic, let me tell you that your client colleague participated in the previous government. Indeed, Dr Janez Šuštersič was a respected member of the previous government, Finance Minister, co-signatory to the contract on the regulation of the guarantee relationship. Now look for and twist the Civil Code out of this and put yourself in some pose that you had nothing to do with it, just doesn't hold. Surely, the Minister of Finance and the National Gazette have also participated in all the decisions in connection with this project, however clearly you wish to run away from it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u62	Nice hello to you all! According to what has been heard today and the last half of the year, when it comes to TES, we could say that TES 6 will either remain or fall into the rule of law. Whatever it may sound like these are too many words, I firmly believe it myself. Regarding TES 6, we have only heard today that there are many different interests, lobbying, different colors that are attached to TES 6 and perhaps the rest of the energy. That government or that team that is going to do this or have the courage to pull this blanket out of TES 6 regardless of who it finds in a foreign bed will prove that it is still possible in this country to believe that it is a legal and just state. From this point of view, I am giving support to the minister for what he said at the outset, and in November I will also hold him to the floor, as I told him, the first time we met that there was a lobby in the field of energy – he said "partial interests" and today I used the word "partial interests". But it doesn't matter, lobbies, partial interests, there's too many of them around and you're taking a dangerous path. On the other hand, the original sin of everything is in that contract that was signed in 2008 and on the one hand gives Alstom a tremendous amount of rights and more or less only duties to the contracting party or to the investor. This contract was signed, if we were reading the media a little bit, under rather strange circumstances – whether it was initialled by all the members of the Supervisory Board or not – but the fact is that one of the major and recognised global law firms was advised to sign it and this contract was still signed. This contract is an original sin. And I'm sure they've established contracts that go to Alstom and to the detriment of the state, they've squeezed in as well as all the ministers. That's one thing. Pressed in like all ministers — a contract signed in 2008. The way they were squeezed, that's my opinion. The second thing, poor information or insufficient information received from the TEC, was that Parliament and the government alluded to wrong decisions, as far as possible. We have heard this today that the information has been framed by TES or HSE. Today, it has been said that there is always some ambiguity, something, some manipulation, and today we do not know exactly what the value of this TES will be. You wrote, the government wrote in its decision, which the committee did not take, and I regret that it did not take it, it writes that the reasons for the increase in the value of the investment are not sufficiently evident from the documentation available. I'm sorry that this isn't in there, because it shows that this 140 million -- whether it's done "on the finger" -- doesn't have some serious documentation behind it, but somehow some team came to the board a while ago and said they needed 140 million. We had a rather gallant debate on the committee at the time, and then we read in the media that if there were no 140 million, then bankruptcy could happen, if there was a bankruptcy, the collapse of HSE could happen, and if there was a collapse of HSE, the guarantees would be cashed out and so on. That's how this story went, the story of blackmail. And I would expect and once again support this decision by the government, even though the Committee has not fully taken it to 140 million euros, it says, but to increase the investment it must do more. What's my suggestion? Given that I have the feeling that in this project there is a lack of clarity, full of different interests, manipulation, deception – the last deception is something that I find confusing, that the previous leadership claims and this argument is with some data that this investment can be made for 1.3 billion and just a little while longer, this current leadership is saying that it can be made for 1.4 billion and something in half. And one more thing, we are deciding where this current leadership, which claims that 1.4 billion can make this investment, can also make it a new investment programme. Of course he'll make it 1.4 billion. Therefore, I suggest to the Government, take this as a public invitation, as a suggestion that if we really want to solve this matter, if we really want to pull the blanket away from TES6 and see who is lying in this bed, then through HSE to TES, send the sanitation administration. The Sanitation Administration should then make a careful review of this independent institution, review of the investment itself, adopt an investment programme and, on the basis of all the investment programme, what we will know or will know, or will know who needs to know, decisions are made. Whether we go to the end of this investment alone, or whether we are looking for a strategic partner, what was in the media, and what was said by HSE, not by politics, or whether we are going to sell. Although I personally believe that even this can benefit someone by selling it. Or maybe it's speculation and someone wants to sell it all and it all goes to waste. I therefore hope, not that I have very little data on my own, that before this decision is reached, this investment can increase to 1.4 billion, so that Parliament will at least be informed. Once again, Minister, in view of what you said at the outset, that you're going into this story, I support you because you say great courage. I believe that someone will try to discredit you, but it seems to me that it is high time to say bob beans for once and to remove this blanket and tell you who those responsible people are and how we will bring this TES to an end to become a function of electricity production at the best possible price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Golubovic. Mr Visjak has made himself available as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u64	As a proposaler, I would like only, and not least, to respond to this ambiguity sentence, that they were compressed into that signed contract like all ministers — that was the case. See, with full responsibility, I claim that not at the time and not later as Minister of the Economy I did not operationally deal with this project, I did not co-decision and had a look at any signed contract, because it was a matter of managing an investment, a matter of an investor, that is TES, a matter of the organs of this company and not of the Minister of Economy or Minister of Energy. I say this with full responsibility that it is unlikely, at least to the extent that I do not know, that no member of the government has been informed, that no one has participated in the contractual clauses, as I hope that no minister now or in any government participates in any investment contracts. It is true, however, that then, on the basis of the increase in this investment as a single flea, and then, because everyone began to warn us that that original sin of growing investment was beginning to hurt our heads. So, the consequences. So that it is clear to all that no government deals with investments that are investments by specific companies, because this is in line with corporate governance principles indeed a matter of the authorities of these companies and, last but not least, of the assemblies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Lisec is next, Mr. Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are facing a matter that I said a while ago that we can talk about a monument of stupidity that we have in Slovenia. Well, the Butlers didn't get a stupid monument, and the Slovenians have one. We are talking about a project where there was some good desire and some good promise at the beginning, for the completion of the project, even though it is not yet finished, but we already know that it is defeated or today we are in this area, that projects should not be done in Slovenia, but they are working. My position on this project TES is clear. I have always been in this project, and I will always be, not least my vote at the time that I am a Member, both with regard to the so-called Mehov law or guarantee law as well as the Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty between Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, where I was one of the few that I was against. Why does this make me feel like I'm still in the position that this project is a monument to stupidity? I asked myself a few years ago what the economic viability of this project is, what the variability is, and how different it is, and in the end, given that we are living in some market capitalism, even what the profitability of this project is. It's about acceptability. For me, any project built on coal or coal use is environmentally controversial in 2013. I mean, there's no debate here. If we're still looking at the sale of CO2 coupons here, we know that the project is very on its toes. With regard to economic eligibility, perhaps for starters – I do not agree with Minister Omerzel when he said the price of the project is known, and now we are essentially just saving something back. I have obtained information or information on how to build other energy facilities. If we are talking in the field of thermoenergy, since 2002, 2003 there is about a basic price to receive about one million euro for about one megawatt hour. I think that in this year, 2009, 2010, 2011, probably this benefit is even more in favour of the lower price and the greater power of the facilities. So what I think today is trying to argue is that the project should initially cost EUR 600 million – if we're talking about 600 megawatts, we're here; one million, one megawatt hour. As I said before, the prices of this unloving project have gone up more than twice, but we all know that the prices of energy and the price of construction at this moment are strictly down. I must say that in this case, what we are talking about now, depending on the price, and given the power of this facility, I am sure that not only in the area of renewable resources, but also in the area of non-renewable resources that we trust them with, this is a nuclear facility, for this price, a nuclear facility of such power and, of course, if we do not do a new monument of stupidity, at least with such power. I think that the guarantee we accepted last year in the middle of the year probably wasn't entirely certain that it was some kind of nagging MPs and ministers. Today, the committee found that apparently some knew that the price we gave there or that guarantee was not yet the final price. Why? The fact that an annex was already being adopted the next day also leads me to do so. So, some know more than others, and I think it was unfair not to say that some have lied to us as Members when we decided, as well as to the Slovenian public, that we accept this guarantee, which I think if we had those numbers and those that some have hidden, most of those 29 Members who were then decided otherwise. That my speech is not on torn legs, the report of the anti-corruption commission on those 12 sides also speaks, although they themselves are limited to having very little chance of finding out what they can, and I think that this report is a good promise for the future that matters in this area will be clarified. I believe that the primary responsibility for the entire project is to all the current thermal power plants and hydro power plants. I think the local and state energy lobby have also attached their petals. This project probably also paid for individual interests. That is why I think that the first task, what is going on with this project, is that policy has no great responsibility, but other authorities – that criminal responsibility must be established for all past institutions, and I am not interested in whether it is political responsibilities or professional errors or mismanagement of the Slovenian public. The other thing is that there was a speech today on the optimization of the project. I think that the conclusions that have been adopted on the Committee link us to the fact that there is no intention or intention for this project to be optimised in view of the fact that we have removed the final timeframe and the final timeframe of the project. With regard to the strategic partner, I wonder who will be the bidder of such a project that has essentially taken possession of the project. If we come from practice, every suitor wants the best girl and no one will deal with a girl who at first shows in her first glances that she is very problematic. Why is this project also problematic in this area? Because it inhibits and has already rejected all other energy investments or projects in Slovenia. Not only can we talk about TES 6 as a monument of stupidity, but we can also talk about it rejecting all investments in energy for at least the next 10, 20 years or delaying the active operation of those energy projects that have long been planned. Because I think that the guarantee was just one payment of debts back, I think the price, when we meet with her on this project, will increase. I'm sure of that. The Committee's conclusions also go this way. You've already announced your own new novelty, and we'll probably meet up with an even bigger number there. Our stupidity monument will be even more expensive. I did not support it, I cannot support it, but I will support the amendments of the SDS Group, which at least partially saves what the ministry and the coalition avoid – the more specific timeframes and timeframes of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. Mr Janez Ribič, then Mr Ivan Hršak and the next Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have a very difficult topic on our agenda. Too bad it's an extraordinary session. I think that would fit our regular sessions of the National Assembly. The topic is very difficult because it has started to smell very bad lately, and it helps us to keep pushing us further into lending the country, still at the edge of our decline. I don't know when or who decided to build this facility at all. I believe that bureaucracy has also helped prevent wind power plants from being built, as well as other nature keepers. As we are listening here today, and all of us have already mentioned these numbers, I must say that somehow I cannot believe that in 2006 the investment started with 591 million and that in 2012 it came to a billion 300 million — more than once. Those people who planned this — I think someone else is alive. Why don't we call them to account? Why don't we start talking like this? We got some material here today that's supposed to be classified. If it's a state firm, if it's about taxpayer money, I don't know why taxpayers shouldn't know what they're doing with their money. I read somewhere that in 2014 this investment will grow further for, I think, 137 million. The final figure will be a billion 440 million. What are we going to do?Oh, my God! In such difficult times, everyone today should talk and look for an investor, someone who can build, someone who can manage and someone who can market. With our actions, we only power some people with money, and nothing happens. Audits up, audits down, and no one finds anything. How can we get $591 million at the end of a billion? I would also like to say that Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, which has also given its share, I have read 324 million, and I have also read 83 million credits. That's a total of 407 million. 407 million since 1998. For almost 14 years I have been fighting for floods along the Drava River in Podravje, where floods where 250 households were flooded in the area of the Duplek municipality alone last year. Only 1% of this money would have been given and this anti-flood dam would have been built. A lot of money in this holding company also comes from the operation of Drava Power Plants. There's nothing going back there. We build and build energy – I don't know who, I really care, as someone said before, who sleeps under this blanket. I'm really curious. That is also why we are in such a bad state as the country, and I support that we are looking for someone who knows – obviously we are not capable of this – and that we are no longer exhausting the country. When you come up with a proposal like this, I'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Mr. Minister has spoken to Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u70	Madam President, thank you for your floor. I owe Mr Ribič an explanation of why a certain part of the documentation is marked "internal". The contract signed with Alstom is marked as a business secret, and if part of the documentation or content resulting from this contract is disclosed, then we risk Alstom's lawsuit and thereby further complicate the situation in Šostanje. That's the only reason. Because we protect our interests, part of the material is marked "internal".
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u71	Thank you very much for explaining. Mr. Hršak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'm going to do something I know about this. This sad story began in 2006 and, as we have heard from the predecessors, the initial price was around €660 million. This is a typical example of how not to work, and here you can also see how bad a country is a master. What does a contract have to contain if someone signs it, anyone? It must state which material will be used, which equipment will be installed, the evaluation of all types of works, the beginning of work, the end of work, the trial operation, including penalties for non-compliance with contractual obligations by the operator, and finally, most importantly, the final price. If the final price is written in the contract, it cannot increase from 660 million to 302 billion, or now to a billion 440, which is incomprehensible to me. As a natural person, I will not sign contracts like this. Before I sign the contract, I want to know everything that needs to be done, at what time it needs to be made quality, and the price. Someone can't raise my price 20 times or 100 percent. That's impossible, and I don't understand how this could have happened, that an annex was constantly signed, and that resulted in a 100 percent increase. Everything that has happened to this project is, in my opinion, unacceptable to the DeSUS Group. In these times of crisis, we are deciding how we will save, how we will get out of this crisis, to whom we will take everything. Some have come up with the idea that we will also take away our pensioners who already have such miserable pensions, and we see that we threw 600 million euros through the window and 700 million euros. Do we even know how much money that is? What does that mean? We should put this money in the pension box and it would be more clever to use than in this case when we see that we threw it out the window. In our Group of Members, and I myself support the need for a full audit by the Court of Auditors or anyone who will independently review this process, all that is stated in this Treaty, that what has occurred can also happen, and that those who have been parties to this Treaty, and those who have taken advantage of this matter, must be held accountable for their actions, must be brought to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u73	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Sonja Ramshak's turn. Then it would be Mr. Ivan Vogrin and Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, in this Chamber, we are discussing the eligibility or ineligibleness of the largest energy investment that we have adopted in the National Assembly a guarantee law of €440 million. As proposers, we have also proposed to invite the President of the Government, the competent Minister of Finance and the distinguished Minister here. Obviously, some of this very pressing issue is not of interest, although it is a very sensitive subject that requires all the attention of those on the side of the Government and the National Assembly, especially all of us Members and Members, who have decided to give the green light to the guarantee law for TES of EUR 440 million. My fellow Members and colleagues already said in the introduction why the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting on the subject of TES 6 or the eligibility of the guarantee, because different information is emerging in the media about how the investment is expected to increase. Given that when we decided on the guarantee, voted and supported this law, I feel personally responsible to speak today about what led me to support this law or the proposed guarantee. As you know, at the time, Members and Members of Parliament had completely different information than today. At that time, some have convinced us that if we do not support the proposed guarantee, we will cause the country's assets to have to be written down at almost a billion euros and at the same time provide 450 million euros for the so-called revitalization of blocks 4 and 5 and contribute a total of 300 million dollars under specific coal-locking laws. If I can briefly summarise what led me then, in addition to these statements by those I believed to give Members and Members the right information, I can say that I was particularly interested in the relationship between the economic eligibility of the project, the environmental acceptability and the social dimension, which is particularly important for both the Savina region and the Shale region. That is why Members and Members, the Government and all the Slovenian public are entitled to receive credible or correct information in relation to the TES 6 project. The Government of Janez Janša took the opinion very seriously and responsibly after the introduction of the above-mentioned law, which made it clear that it was prepared to take additional risks in the construction of the TES 6 project, but that the guarantee must be decided by the National Assembly. In doing so, the government also warned of this and gave 5 conditions. One of the essential conditions is that the investment must not exceed EUR 1.3 billion. Today, as we know and as you are already on the committee, in the competent working bodies, in the National Assembly and according to the material we have received, we find that this figure is clearly to be increased. TES 6 is another example of a state project that would certainly be suitable for study at one of our recognised universities or colleges, as it shows that it is not guided in the way that investment projects are designed and run. Once again, we see that one of them is obviously counting only on how they will draw as much from this project as possible for themselves and for their friends or lobbyists and lobbyists, who will act as contractors in principle All of this will be gilded, but not in a way that will determine the purpose and purpose of the project, in order to create a financial structure, to provide the necessary financial resources before the start of the project. In this way, we are once again faced with a change in the investment project somewhere in the middle, an increase, and to assess what this means for the investor, the country and for all of us citizens and citizens, taxpayers. Allow me to point out, given that this has already been mentioned many times today, that this project has been uneconomically, irrationally, and that the project is very imprudent. I join this opinion, and I have also pointed out many times in previous discussions that this project is clearly a serious breach of the law, the Public Procurement Act and so on. Apparently, some took advantage of the moment and provided themselves with a variety of means, as I said in the debate. It is right that today, when we speak and discuss this investment, Members and Members, we stress once again that we are not talking about whether TEM 6 should be closed or not, but rather whether we are talking about withdrawing the guarantee if there is an increase in the value of this project or not. I must say that when I decided and voted in favour of the TES 6 guarantee law, I voted in favour of keeping the investment within EUR 302 million, and that if this investment increases, my vote cannot be obtained anymore. Why? Because I believe that serious violations of laws and the like have occurred in the design and implementation of the project, and so on, the unethical conduct of individuals or groups. I have already said once that it is not only the leadership and supervisory councils of TES and HSE that are responsible, but that responsibility must also be sought from those who have prepared various public procurement calls. In the Valley of Shale, if you're going to walk and talk to the locals, they know that very well. If the authorities, the police, the NPU, the D.A., and if they process the judiciary, they'll come to the conclusion that there's been a lot of mistakes, that they're still repeating themselves and that apparently someone's still trying to cover something up and cover it up. So much for me, and I can say that I will support the proposed amendments, because I think it is right to say that it is necessary to ensure that the investment remains in this range and that the time limit of justice finds those who have violated the relevant legislation or our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Ramshak. Minister Omerzel spoke and then there was a slight change. Mr Kavtičnik will be next and then Mr Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear Mrs Ramšak, President of the Government and Minister of Finance, I have promised to represent the Government in a sovereign manner. In this government, we all have a lot of work to do, and we have shared tasks, and on the other hand, we trust each other and do each other's part of the task. I'm kind of here as a government representative to cover whatever it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Kavtičnik, Mr Vogrin has joined us at this time, which is yet to come before you, so we will give him our word. Here you go, mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. I didn't join now. I don't know if I'm that obnoxious? I've been sitting here or standing here all the time. Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our fellow Member was very concerned about the negative effects of TES 6 on human health. I need to tell you some encouraging news. A few days ago, I read in a newspaper that acts of the National Assembly had a very positive impact on human health. People are increasingly hungry, and because hunger causes them to be more and more dry and because it is a generally known fact – this will be confirmed by colleague Leila – that obesity has a negative impact on the functioning of the heart, the blood vessels, etc., are acts that we adopt, excellent for human health. So let's keep this up. Let's raise taxes, raise investment, lower public sector wages, increase unemployment, because the unemployed have no fixed income and every other day is possible. This is a great way to improve health. Now I've spent almost a minute and a half on a little joke, a little bit, really, but now I'm gonna say some serious things. They're serious, too, because if you're hungry, it's a serious thing. I'm not interested in the past. I'll determine what's going on. In July 2012, the guarantee law for TES 6 was passed. July 2012, we follow the dates. Then I have a contract here. 30. 11. On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister Šuštersič and Minister Černač signed, on behalf of TES Simon Tot, a contract on the regulation of relations with regard to the project of the construction of the TES 6. See what the contract says: "TEST 6 Commitments and Guarantees" – I have to keep it a little further because I see a little bit poorly. "TEŠ ensures that the total investment value of the project will be lower than the final value of the project, which is €1,302,492,30." That was 30. 11. 2012. On December 21st we decided on the guarantee, and I was one of those 29 Members of the 90 Members – listen well, less than one third gathered courage and confirmation. Why? Because we've probably estimated that if the project continues, the damage is smaller than if the project stops. Why did we confirm it? Because we had this contract in front of us, that it would be a billion and 300. What is now being done is a severe abuse of my voice, of my constituents. In the Civil Gazette, if you don't know, I'll say, I got the highest percentage of votes, and the voters trust me. It's fraud. I gave my vote for the guarantee, and all 28 to make it a billion and 300. It's signed. On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, no one has the right to assess that it has now increased. In the meantime, to make the farce even bigger, we replaced the Director, replaced the Supervisory Board. I didn't pick up this material because there's nothing in this material that's worth such a confidential nature. Here are the papers on the table. I got them from the people in TES. If today this farce that the Government and the current leadership of TES 6 will receive a blank bill to raise the investment at the expense of taxpayers, I will give it to the press because I have already called some journalists! These are documents you don't have in this classified material. I know a little more than most people do, because when I decided in a very heated relationship that I had given my voice as a single Member, I thoroughly informed myself about what I had put my voice to. I know what I gave for, and I won't let my voice cheat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. If there is no change, then the following is the order: Mr Kavtičnik, Mr Chuš and then Mr Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We're talking about a tree today, but we can't see the woods. I already said on the committee today that we need to talk or we should talk about what kind of energy programme we want in Slovenia. If we had a revised national energy programme, as it should be, we would probably be talking today about whether we need thermal power plants in Slovenia, whether we're building a Central Sava, whether we're going to build a Central Sava, South Sava, or whether we're going to have that kind of energy in a nuclear power plant, or going to another block, etc. We should talk about this, but it's also right to talk here today. A lot of experts came from this. When it comes to certain judgments that such and other matters have been violated, laws that were manipulated, that it was stolen, etc., I hold on not to judge that you will not be tried. If I judge, then I must have something tangible in my hands. That's not good. Such a message to the public that it was stolen, etc., is very unproductive. I read today that in Serbia they signed a contract to build a 700-megawatt thermal power plant for a billion 900 million. If we put this on a megawatt clock, we get 2.35 million on a megawatt clock, and we're at TES on 2.4. It was just that it was stolen, that it was done — it was a bit of a hair draw, but it was certainly not transparent. Otherwise, it wouldn't be 11. 6. 2012 asked Minister Černač the question: Is there still strategic importance for the Government and you, Mr Minister, TŠ 6 and when and how do you intend to end this biggest investment in the country? Because he did not give me the right answer because the answer was not enough to satisfy not only me, but all the Members in Positive Slovenia, I requested a public debate on this issue in the National Assembly. Amazingly, all those who have been signed today to discuss this investment have opposed it. A year ago! And we speak, and we know that time is gold. If we could get some information back then, the previous government could have done what this government has done. In three months, she came in with documents and anex, what would be good to do to get the right information. I advocate the independence of Slovenia, and in so doing I also advocate independence in the production of electricity. If we want to be independent, we must have three pillars: hydro, nuclear and TES. That's proved. What's the price in three, four years or five years, nobody knows. We don't know what's gonna happen next year. But because people like it today, we're going to say that this government is doing the wrong thing. What did you trigger with this debate? Do you know what you wanted? You wanted to mess up everything you didn't know or could not do from 2006 to 2012, to the others. You are now blurring the matter that should be taken over and the responsibility that should be assumed by your ministers, former ministers, supervisors, directors, etc. My friend Fish said earlier that he doesn't know when it started, how it started. If I read today's work, I'd know. I can tell him that already in 2005, when Prime Minister Janez Janša was Prime Minister, he signed for the energy permit for block 6, and it happened. He was a magician back then. Andrej Vizjak Minister. At the time he was director of Dr. Jože Zagozhen, in the supervisory board of HSE Andrej Vizjak, Franz Bogovic, etc. This is being carried out until 2008. Today, we wonder if we know nothing to surprise us all about what happened from 600 million onward! You know. Let me tell you, the people watching us aren't so naive, not by any chance. I will support the amendments of the government because they are the first serious attempts by some government to clarify the investment, to make a plan forward and to know what and how not only with TES 6 but generally with energy in the Slovenian space. Where there's money, there's sticky fingers. There's a lot of money in energy. It's the only money available in our country. It is money, it will be money because energy will be needed today, tomorrow, and also in 10, 20, 50 years. Since it will be necessary, I am sure that we need such a TER 6 and we need independence in the production and production of electricity.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u81	Thank you very much. As I've noticed, you want a replica, Mrs. Ramšak, of Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I'll be quick so I don't take the time. I have come to know in your implementation that we are taking the time of those who voted against you. I was in favour, so I also explained my vote for that time, and why today I demand that the investment stop at EUR 302 million. About lying about endings. That's not what I was talking about, but it's true that I've pointed out some things. You've got this in your internal file, so I'm not going to quote. We've seen a lot of things in the media about how it traveled, how computer equipment was procured, etc. These are elements of crime and have the competent authorities do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. What a lovely greeting to the Minister! Mr Kavtičnik, if you would support what you have said, I recommend that you support all three proposed amendments from the SDS Group. To express my opinion on TER 6. The main mistake, I think, is that many more parts could be obtained by Slovenian producers and Alstom would only work in the area for which it was originally commissioned. We have now come to the point that even painting works are done by foreigners. One of the purposes of such projects is probably to start an economy in its own country. We would therefore expect to give money to a Slovenian economy that is breathing on gills, but not to essentially support France and Bulgaria with this investment. In our public procurement system, one might understand that investments or projects are being encouraged, but it is not understandable that the project is being raised from €600 million to €400 million. In October 2011, Igor Masten, an economist, said: "The project must be measured with invested funds, and in our circumstances it is completely wrong to start investment projects that do not have closed financial structures." Much of the incentives for this project are also due to the irritation of raw materials which have been auctioned over the years. On the other hand, when the raw materials were valued, these negotiations or evaluations were not easy or insufficient. For example, TEŠ 6 is a fine example of corruption, incompetence, greed, and the rest of law enforcement. We can say that the TES 6 project embodyes all the bad features of Slovenian policy, economy and law enforcement. If I say tragically, the TES 6 project could even be an example of the Greek public administration, the one before the crisis. Today, too, several Members who have asked for support from the TES 6 project are sitting here to raise their assets. I think there was a talk about your house. Where are these heroes today? They are not, because they know why we are discussing this again today and why we should encourage the project again. Those who have filled their pockets at the expense of project TES 6 – be ashamed. Due to all of this, young people and even future generations will be able to remedy the harmful consequences and decisions of the TES 6 project, especially on the account of the increasingly high taxes which are the established practice of your government. We probably all know that there will be some additional impetus to the unexpected event, so thinking about the continuation of the project is similar to robbing Slovenian property and robbing Slovenian taxpayers. You won't have my support for this project, for the promotion and for the robbery in the future, and neither have you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chus. Mr Dragutin Mate, followed by Pukšič, Breznik and Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It's very easy for me to discuss today. Last year, I voted against both decisions or both of the provisions we adopted in the National Assembly. Why? It's very simple. I will also vote today in such a way that I cannot support any reflection on this project. It's very simple. Such projects in Europe cost about 1.2 million per megawatt hour and not 2.4 or 2.9 per second in Serbia. I don't care what's in Serbia, I want to know how much this project costs in Austria, in Germany, in France. It's worth 700 million. But they don’t build everything else around us — business buildings, overpasses, undercarriages, dressings, I don’t know what else. This is not part of this project. And that's why the project's been on the ups and downs. It's because of all kinds of different apartments. Now we'll have them again, independent experts. Who's going to order them, how and where are they going to pay them? Before, I heard someone say that this project has to go through, that it's going to be a big school for us to go through. Unfortunately, this school will not end this project. The school will continue with the losses the project will have in the future. This is not about talking like it or not, because if we were to talk about how someone likes to talk, then I would properly present both my questions that he raised last year. If I quote a part of the question that one of the Members who spoke earlier, how some things worry him and he hasn't repeated them today, he read it. I quote: "After the first TES 6 is expected to cause between 33 and 48 deaths and between €190 and €242 million of economic damage, which in 40 years of operation represents a thousand 320 to thousands of 920 deaths and between €6.7 to 9.7 billion in damage." This question was raised last year by one of our colleagues, who today is saying that one of us is talking like one, and he represents only his second question, which he raised publicly at another meeting. He received an answer from the Minister of Health. What will be the consequences? These will be the consequences. All of this is recorded in the records of the National Assembly and can be read in peace by texts written by someone and by what he meant. So much for the duality of the question. I cannot support this project in particular because the megawatt hour will be too expensive, simply too expensive. Serious countries have begun to deal with these issues in the following way. When the economic crisis broke out, Germany placed all similar projects, such as we have with TES 6, on a sieve. She rewinded her energy policy, assessed how and stopped the projects. She stopped them in the middle of the trial. How did we do? We took them on, and only then did we begin to sign those treaties that are now very damaging to us. I'm afraid at the end of the day we're going to have a beautiful facility that's going to operate for a while, and we're going to have health consequences, economic consequences, because of this, and probably stop working at some point due to too much loss. Then the damage will be even greater. Sooner or later, there will be a point where we will probably have to discuss either in the National Assembly or in the Supervisory Councils, or the project will stop completely and is just a beautiful monument, just as sometimes factories that remain silent monuments were built. This is precisely because in Western Europe, in the European Union, thermal power plants have either stopped or stood at a megawatt hour of 1.1 to 1.3 million in the last 3, 4 years – it will cost us 2.4 twice that. This is totally unacceptable. Also 1.3 billion is a personal unacceptable price for me. The acceptable price is 700 million, and this is where it ends. Sooner or later someone will have a bad conscience or before the citizens, and then it will be very difficult to go double. I'm not going. Since the beginning and with all the guarantees, I have voted against and, therefore, I cannot support any encouragement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u87	Thank you very much. First the replica, Mr. Kavtičnik, and then the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight. I asked Minister Chernač a question, but I also sent a written question to the Minister of Health asking him whether he really held the claim that more people were dying because of emissions in the Valley of Shaleska, and I received the answer that they did not have these analyses and that they could not carry out these analyses. That's the other answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Mate, I am pleased that you were one of those who voted against the guarantee, but only to understand what we are voting on today. If you vote for and support me today, it means that you have given me support to make order in this area to make order in this investment. We do not vote on whether we support the project or not, nor do we vote on whether we allow the project to become irritable or not. If you give me your support today, you'll give me your support to make an order on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič is next, then Beznik and Mrs Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Minister, I think you have all the powers and all the decisions you need to make on the project order. I just got one message saying, "The STA has just announced that they have seized all the assets of all stakeholders and all the stakeholders involved in the TES 6 project, from a price of 600 million euros to a billion 400 and something else, they have also detained." Colleagues and colleagues, this is, of course, a parody because we live in Slovenia, which is one of the most corrupt countries. After us are Afghanistan and some Asian and African countries. They say it would be right if that were the case and they were already sitting in prison all those shareholders around the highway cross, the Stožice, oncology, pediatric hospitals, the E.R. Some – said only Bevk spoke about this earlier, and I agree with that – say how the thing was going. I agree with those who claim that this project could or should have cost as much as it was in 2006, when the investment programme was approved — about 600 or 700 million. So many such projects in Europe are also costing, hand to heart. If there were roads, sewers, circulars, and I don't know what else to show for it, let's say what it was. But if this was the case — as a colleague earlier said not to talk about the theft — it was stolen, it was obvious, and then it was simply necessary to arrest and close those shareholders. Minister, I think it's time that the authorities you have at your disposal as a government do these things as well. When was the contract finally signed? In 2009. Rotnik, etc., has also been replaced since then. The contract or document that I was trying to document earlier protested because we did not get it, internally confidentially – I must not talk about what it says in there, but I can tell you that such a bad document would probably not be signed in any local community to build a mile of road or to infuse a chad or something like that. That's just impossible. What it says in here and what it says about why certain things are being irritated — I think of it as a technique for vomiting. I'm really going to throw up. I expect that's what's gonna happen sooner or later. What could be the results and where our country today could be –I am sure that in a significantly better condition than it is. We are now talking about 100, 200, 300 million Euros of encouragement, but unfortunately you have managed to charge the country more than 7 billion Euros from 2009 to 2011. This is for about 5 TECs. At the expense of this, we will pay for the next 50 or more years, but not us, because we will be long gone, but those who follow us. We have also reported these duties here on numerous occasions and have pointed out this. Colleagues and colleagues, not a cent, minister, not a cent, at least 300 million should be recovered, but not from Alstom, because we will not get it, but from those who are guilty of having it come to pass, and the matter will be closed! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u94	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Nice greeting on my part, too! I must admit that today there have been quite a few fine debates, good arguments on one side and on the other, but the conclusions have passed through some of my theories, which I have explained many times. With regard to this project and the investment itself in TES 6, I mean to say a few words of my own. From the beginning, I must honestly admit that I have been opposed to this project from the very beginning. I voted against any guarantee or bank guarantee for this project with several aspects. As an engineer, I am aware of Slovenia's strategic supply of electricity, but mainly because of the complementarity of the energy system, where the thermal power plant as such gives us very reliable electricity when there are different differences or the failure of the nuclear power plant. From this point of view, this project would be as positive. Unfortunately, this is the very argument that the entire project went into a dead end and was set up as some kind of bait for all those who do not have or have a lack of knowledge and occupy a lot of lobby that rules this country. This is my basic message to all colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly. Today we need to present some arguments that I would also like to present to the Minister, not just as an economist, as an engineer, and that is what I think will have a major impact on the duration of this project in some medium-term period. First of all, I think my colleague Mate has already said today that the project is too much. All those who argue that the same projects are currently being built in Germany and Serbia – see, Serbia has large deposits of brown coal, as well as Germany, which even has deposits of some of the black coal, which has several times the calorie value of lignite. This is the first argument that you need to consider and that you are referring to. Another thing that is – I agree – cost the project 600 million euros and several million euros in the start-up. It was some kind of grave or, as you said today, over the thumb calculated value. This was because no one took into account that business buildings would be being built next to the thermal power plant to build different overpasses, transportation and everything else that happened to us in the highway program. This is what we all close our eyes to when the local community picks up some bits. These are all those projects that have already been in Slovenia that we know. The next thing I'm predicting is that this project will not stay at 1.4, but it will go even to 1.5 or 1.6 billion euros. Why would I argue with him like that? Wasn't it taken into account in the project? The vertical transport route in the mine costs about 36 million euros, something like that. It is important to know that TES will burn 29 million tons of coal a year. I think you can imagine this number. The costs of strengthening the long-distance network are also not included. We forget that there is now an emergency power of 600 megawatts installed in one place. All the trends in the world are going in the direction of the dispersion of projects, because the future you say you can't predict – I'm telling you it is. A few high-tech breakthroughs took place in the middle. First, you know, the so-called LED technology, which, for example, mainly public lighting, reduced electricity consumption by 90%. The second point is that all companies in the crisis have begun to significantly reduce the cost of their production. Part of the money was put into new technologies, part of the money worked on some energy self-sustainment, so that already every micro-enterprise in the country and in Europe and the world saves energy, reduces the firm's fixed costs. These are two of the greatest aspects. Therefore, the price of electricity will not increase in the medium term. And also the trends and forecasts of the stock market for the next 10 years show that no, even if economic growth occurs. There's only one aspect to which electricity could be raised. If in the next 10 years there was an incredible breakthrough in the automotive electricity industry, electric cars, then the price of electricity could start to rise because there would be more electricity consumption. This is the only reason at this point that in 10 years the price will start to rise abnormally. The rest remains up to €50. At this point, if the project is also valued at 1.3 billion, with 1.2 billion euros, it is totally wrong. The next issue, which is the economy of the so-called discount rate of returns, is 9%. If we do not cheat here – it is important to be aware that all banks are lending at higher discount rates. You must have at least 10, 12%. This is the next aspect we've forgotten. The most critical parameter is the price of the input energy. The guarantee was already tied to the price of a 2.25 euro input energy per gigajoule. Who can predict this price? Coal Velenje announced this price, but did not tell workers how it would reduce the fixed costs of coal production, where it would seek this price for the next 40 years. As we know, there are already so-called backup spears. Lignite already has low caloric value in the starter, and in the coming years there are backup spears where this caloric value will fall. According to my data and according to the data of the engineers from Velenje mine, this combustion capacity fell from 11.5 gigajoules per tonne in 2006 to 8 000 500, and in 2028 the ash content will increase from 12.5 to 24%. All of this increases the cost of electricity, which is too high for TES 6. If planned for a maximum of cca 59 euros per megawatt-hour [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'd like some attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u95	Can I just have a moment of your attention? Mr. Beznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u96	In other words, we compare that the price of hydropower at this point is about €22, and then this data, I think, is already extremely worrying. The next issue I have to point out is increased CO2 emissions. We can't predict what's gonna happen in 40 years. The whole study was done in 10 years, how much we're going to pay for the release, what's gonna happen in 20, 30 and 40 years. I didn't hear that today. Developmental reasons that we have not taken into account. TES 6 will take all the accumulation of Slovenian energy due to this price of electricity. All Slovenian energy gains will literally suck up to us. At a time when Slovenia is facing a severe economic crisis, a favourable price of electricity could also affect businesses and households. At this point, the government could say that we are lowering the price of electricity by 30%. This is what we offer companies, as a social correction also to Slovenian families. This entire project will be felt by Slovenian families through their positions. The price of electricity fell by 80%. The price of the network as such remained approximately the same. The price of the network is the most important aspect they talk about in the world, in Germany, Austria. It'll be the best place to make money in years to come. Therefore, all trends are already at this point in the micro-distribution or micro-generation of electricity on the smallest bases scattered throughout the country. In this case, there is a minimum use of the electricity network and the smallest or greatest effects as regards the direction of the economy of production. My next look. Slovenia is moving away from new technologies to electricity production through this project. We're forgetting that I'm not just talking about photovoltaics, I'm not talking about wind power plants. Slovenia has an incredible potential in so-called geothermal energy. We are already familiar with drilling technology at 5,000 meters, where we receive steam, hot water from 250 to 300 degrees, and on this basis we could already build so-called geothermal power power plants. All of this is going to go to waste. All Slovenian science, all knowledge falls on project TEŠ 6. That's the sad aspect. On the one hand, we invest in knowledge, we invest in experts, and on the other hand, we destroy. The following are so-called projects called multiplier effects. The TEŠ 6 project employs less than 20% of Slovenian companies. Even painters are not from Slovenia. Slovenians are other third subcontractors of this project. That's sad. There's more to it than that. I may be too long, but look, dear colleagues, this project is a real knife in the back of Slovenian taxpayers, especially Slovenian professions in other technologies. With my speech today, I am particularly reminding the Minister that the arguments that I just made are familiar with him. I am ready to give him more, and I believe he will take up this project, but I also stress that you support our amendments that we have presented here today. We are also committed to this project, particularly to make this project public, to see where it was wrong, especially in the time of one government, which we now call a natural disaster for Slovenia, because this project, due to lack of supervision of institutions, fell from billions to 300. At a time when market changes were taking place and when market changes led everyone to negotiate and lower prices, our adulterous supervisors increased the price of this project. This is a key argument why we called today's extraordinary conference. The project got out of control at a time when we could lower the cost of the project, not increase it. There is not only 300 million here, there is a difference of 500 million euros. As a result, this extraordinary session, which is already ahead of parliamentary holidays – 500 million euros to be paid by taxpayers over the next 40 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. There have been some changes in the order of things. Now it is Mr Jerovšek, followed by Plevčak, Jelusič and Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your Honor! On 28 June last year, when we discussed the guarantee on the Finance Committee, I said that my engineers and my national pride were wounded. They are even more wounded today, but not because of the choice of the project itself, but because of the management of the project and all the corruption and all the things that were happening in the project. We already know that today. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, all mega projects with huge numbers are accompanied by vultures. Unfortunately, there are no values left, no morals. I'm going to compare with one other project – the highway through the Trojans. When I became an MP in 1996, the project was adopted and I told Director Dars Brodnik that it was impossible for the new road to be 30 meters above the current road, that you would only go to viaducts and tunnels, that the construction workers would have as much work as possible. Mr. Brodnik called all the designers and said, "Come to Dars, they'll explain that this is the only solution." And they proved that they had to guarantee 130 kilometers of speed everywhere. Today, we drive only 100 kilometers from Vransko to Blagovica, and there are often 60 kilometers of restrictions in tunnels. This is a project that swallowed half the highway money because the tycoons won. There, Zidar murdered other Slovenian builders and Primorje, etc. It's similar with TES. On that committee at the time, I said that I was stuck just in the water preparation, the chemical preparation of the water, because I had saved and implemented such a project and was the head of the investment as a technical director. At that time, it was said that the offer was a contract of EUR 5.2 million for the chemical preparation of water, because I know exactly what is going on. At the time, the new price of Annexes was almost 10 million, 100 % higher. I guarantee it again. The chemical preparation of water today, after 17 years of politics, I hope to write a tender so that the price of the offer can be a maximum of 5% difference, but the offer has to be reduced because each one charges an extra profit. This is where 100% happened. At the same time, I say that the new water preparation in Scotland is not needed at all, because they have excellent water now, but they will need less chemically prepared water after a new project if it works, because it will evaporate less. It's lacmus paper, how this project was led. Around 100 percent more, and this money has apparently leaked into the pockets of people who control Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, it's true, there's obviously been a crime here, too. Not because we are going to have a modern thermal power plant. Such a project could have been launched, but they have already basically set up to rip out Slovenia, so that the money will be greased by those who led it from elsewhere in the Shaleska Valley, who are the key levers for this money to come. [[..]] At that chemical water preparation, I tested how this was run, and, ladies and gentlemen, this is not how projects should be run. It's a disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Maria Plevčak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I will not go into technical data and details of construction and planning, but I will start in 2006 and 2008, when the price of the planned project TES 6 was first shown to have increased. Why did no one do anything about it? The second was the promotion in 2009 with the NIP 2. Again, no response from the owner – the countries. We can see that our investments are poorly managed, not only in this area, but also in others, because they are poorly planned, and then individuals change. Administrations are changing, supervisory committees or councils are changing, and in this case also responsible energy ministers were changing. But things got out of hand. In a project such as TES 6, I think it is the supervisory authorities who should play a major role. Where were the inspectors and supervisors all this time? Have we ever talked about an increase in prices before? Never. Or perhaps never, because I am too little time in Parliament to be familiar with all these things. NIP 5 was apparently adapted for the acceptance of the guarantee in the National Assembly. That's what a whole bunch of debaters have figured out. I think someone should be responsible for this fake, too. With all the changes that are taking place, and with all the management structures in the back, we have people with a last name and a last name, please tell me who has answered by now! They're chasing something now, but I don't think it's just Rotnik. There are many others with their fingers in marmalade, and the question is how many customers have in this game. For we know that in the economy and in such large projects, it is still decided in the parties, but not on the open stage. I am pleased with what Minister of Infrastructure Mr Omerzel has said. I hope that he will be able to make clean calculations, and that he will also be able to point his finger at the one who cheated on the state property and that he will succeed or that the competent authorities will be able to sanction all those who cheated on us together because we will all pay. They took the money out of our pocket to all of us and also to our descendants. I think there will be others to be activated here, the Court of Auditors in the review, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and all other institutions, but do not come with a result in 5 years – this must be done immediately! Things need to be put in the right place as soon as possible! That's a lot of money. Pensioners have between 300 and 500 euros in pensions. Imagine how many pensions this is from 156 million. Just recalculate. Then, for the next year, we talk about lowering our pensions — no! We need to do order here, on these projects that we're working on, or on those that I'm looking at on the computer, that they're still foreseen. For example, the mega-Romanian Phoenix project in Posavje. Billions are also foreseen here. However, it was probably necessary to deduct some money for the project. Here we need to find things or make sure that in the present bad times we have, we make sure that we do what brings us back value, not invest where we have nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Plevčak. It's Dr. Ljubica Jelusic's turn, then Meh, Žgeiner Tavš and Jenko's.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u102	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the Minister, who hopes he will not leave us, especially because I think he has slowly found that with the hours of today's debate we are moving ever further away from what was meant by the debate and are taking on responsibilities we do not have in the National Assembly. Some discuss how they will decide today, how they will withdraw the guarantee, but we do not even have the material in front of us. Some think that they will fill the pension box with money going to TES, but TES 6 is mostly financed by loans, with European loans. Some think that today they will say how important they have made in recent years either for this project or against the project, some, including former ministers, have rightly said that, even as ministers, they have not had or should not have had an impact on such a project run by a company owned by the State – HSE – and this project is owned by HSE. We are talking about indirect ownership of the country and therefore we need to be limited in our expectations of what we can and can do with the management of the TES National Assembly and what our role in such debates can be, and in particular in the management of such an investment. I would like to say that TES 6 is essentially a project that we can call the Patria of Slovenian Energy Policy, not only because it involves a whole range of corrupt and problematic actions, but also because it links different governments, starting with the government of Janez Janša from 2004-2008, through the government of Borut Pahor, then again the government of Janez Janša, and now the government of Alenka Bratušek. The four governments already have these documents before them, and I am convinced that, like the government in which I participated, the Borut Pahor government, at the outset, had to face problems arising from the investment in TES 6, so now the government of Alenka Bratušek and the minister, who had already received early troublesome calculations on the continuation of this investment. I must say that in 2009, the Borut Pahor's government, at the beginning of 2009, very soon after the takeover of power, had already faced very increased calculations as to what the TES 6 investment project would be, and that at the beginning of 2009 the NIP 2 we knew was 1.4 billion. Therefore, I am surprised that today some who participated in the government before the government of Borut Pahor are moving, wondering why this project is so unusually increasing. This project obviously had to be known in 2008 that it would reach at least 1.4 billion, if not more, because the NIP we received was already so highly valued. Then all the governments that followed have tried to curb the great needs of this project, and all governments have also asked the question after the audits. Today, too, we should discuss how and how to revise such a project, which is a project of a state-owned society. What can the Court of Auditors do? It can revise the functioning of the government and the functioning of HSE, but it cannot be in TES. In order for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to revise transactions in indirect-owned companies, we will have to amend the Law on the Court of Auditors in Parliament. Then we can expect the Court of Auditors to carry out that business that, say, the Minister needs to see what the investment project is in at this point. International audits – we must be aware that international audits in the field of energy policy are carried out by well-known companies and that these companies are usually linked to one or another group dealing with energy projects. The Government or the HSE could order an international audit in an undertaking that is either indirectly linked to Alstom or indirectly linked to its competition and it would be questionable how objective such audits are. Some also discuss very much how TES 6 uses taxpayers’ money. We should take a closer look at the ownership structure or funding sources of TES 6 without using concrete data, say: approximately one-third, 36%, own resources of HSE and TES; all the rest are credits. The vast majority of loans are from the EBRD and the EIB. For part of one of these loans, one of the EIB, the guarantee was also given by the Government or Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but the guarantee does not mean that we have given the money to the taxpayer. However, it is threatening in the future if the project is to be delayed, as it has been so far, because it should be completed by now. If he lingers with him and gets even more irritated, we may also be threatened by the fact that this guarantee will be cashed one day. At that time, the 440 million will indeed go to the taxpayers. Before we talk about how this is already from taxpayers' pockets, however, it is right to distinguish between projects financed directly from the state budget and projects financed either by international loans or from own funds or profits from companies that are also state-owned. Someone might say that these companies would, I don't know, instead of giving it for TES, divide it for humanitarian purposes in the country. Then the question arises what we would like to achieve by today's debate, what all of this distribution, which lasts more than five hours, is meant for today. That we're going to entrust the government with being even more careful about this project than ever? She can't do anything else – it's in her jurisdiction and she has to look at this project. With today’s discussion, will we help to find a solution to funding, for example, on the question of who will pay the difference between the guarantee contract that spoke of the highest height or closed financial structure, a billion and 302 million, 2012 and what will follow?Oh, my God! Perhaps it would be wise to ask ourselves today who will cover the difference. We don't know where the financial source is yet about that difference. But it is pointless to discuss things that we do not even decide in the National Assembly. Today, at the initiative of the SDS party, we are talking about problems or recommendations that we think would be good for the government to fulfil, but we are not taking on the essential powers we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u103	Thank you very much. There have been some changes. Mr Meh, then Mrs Jana Jenko, who has very little time, then Mr Bogovic and Mr Han. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u104	Ladies and gentlemen! From 9 a.m. until now, I listen carefully to most of the debates, only in the middle of which I went, because this is for me, not because of Meh's law, but for me as a resident of the Silesian Valley, a very important topic. I am talking about her and I want to talk about her. First, I would apologize to Joseph Horvath for speaking and jumping into his word, and my advertising was unworthy. But I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it's undignified that a state MP here is saying that coal burning has destroyed 2,000 700 people, that they've died and that they're reducing their intelligence. This is unworthy and it is not right for us to speak this way in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. We don't have any inferior feelings in the Valley of Shale, and we don't think we have any less intelligence than anyone else. That would be very interesting to prove, but it's unworthy to speak like that. It is also unworthy to talk about TES and taxpayers, as was the talk today. TES will pay €55 million for the guarantee. This is the price the state budget receives for TES, and that is why I find this unworthy. It is also unworthy to talk about the chemical preparation of water in a factory where someone worked, and not to ask the one who deals with it why chemical water preparation costs so much. We could certainly ask the responsible engineer who did this. My protest, ladies and gentlemen, all those who said or said that the municipal infrastructure was being built, that there was anything else – not even a cent was from the project of the TEŠ given for sewerage, for municipal infrastructure, for roads, for overcoating, and they made a circle in Šostjanje, which is stupid because when they finish the investment, the circle will fall to the ground and then it will fall into the budget of the municipality. Something else about the price of 2.25 euros in coal per gigajoule. It's in the contract. Coal Velenje says it will achieve this and says that it will also achieve this in the long term by providing this price with its subsidiaries. But we're talking about the long-term price of coal that they say should be applied for 47 years. We can't say for three years, we don't know what the price of electricity is going to be, what the cost is going to be, and we can't say that. At the same time, we demand that we know the price of coal. Someone said that TES 6 will be the new Ljubljana Bank to be felt by our grandchildren. I must repeat what Mr Koshorok said. Koshorok told the committee today that HSE controls the costs, controls the investment in TES and has done everything to control production and costs that will arise in TES. He also said that it is not possible to sell only energy from the Šostanja Thermoelectrica because it is too expensive, but this price together with hydropower is a common price, because thermoenergy is given when it is not hydro. This is a significant difference, and he said that HSE was therefore established. It is therefore right, as has been said many times, that the project is completed as soon as possible. There's something else I'd like to say. When we talked about the review – one is the review, because you know that, and the other is the review. I fully support the Government's intention to make a full revision of TES, production and to prepare data on which we can decide. What some deceive that the NIP 5 review was made — this was indeed done. But you know what the problem is? The problem is what Dr. Ljubica Jelusic was talking about, the problem is what we do, ladies and gentlemen. The National Assembly should decide what the National Assembly decides — laws, instructions to the government, what others can do. We cannot decide on the investment of TES. We said the ministers couldn't decide that either. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Slovenian Government came to this Parliament with a guarantee and said that the guarantee for Block 6 amounted to one billion 300 million the real guarantee. This is misleading us, Members and Members of Parliament. The Minister of the Slovenian Government had to ensure all that he could offer us a decision for which we can raise our hands because we believe him. I therefore support that the government of Alenka Bratušek will do its utmost to be ready, that this project will really be able to drink water and that everything that needs to be done will be done. Let me ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about energy, we would urgently need a national energy programme. This national energy programme should record exactly what we are going to do with energy. Today, some people talk about how much a nuclear power plant costs, how much a nuclear power plant is supposed to cost. A similar nuke, as we would build it — I can show you in the newspapers — costs 15 billion euros in Turkey. We wrote down 2 billion and a half. I can show you it's here on the table, and I'll get to that information very soon. But it doesn't even matter. How much the hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Sava cost us, how much the hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Savi – we never talked about it. Today someone on the board said I was speaking against the defense of flood safety. No, ladies and gentlemen, the rest of the infrastructure was built at energy facilities, using water funds, other funds and municipal funds. That's the point. If I pull the parallel. The parallel is that not one single investment in Block 6 in the Šostanj Termoelectricarium is for local needs. There's not a single investment. This is the comparison that we should do, what we're going to do with Central Sava, what we're going to do with Thermoelectric Trbovlje and what we're going to do with renewable resources. Today we are talking about what the final price of the investment in Block 6 will be. If anyone can tell, if anyone can tell, what the final price will be — this would certainly be a reward. No one can predict that. The final price will be known after the final calculation. By reviewing the operation of the TEC and the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, we can ensure that we receive an investment programme covering all costs. At these costs, the investment is then closed. Someone was also talking about block 6 being shut down. It's very simple, but we close block 5 and block 4. It just doesn't work that way. Today block 5 and block 4 produce coal, electricity in a questionable way. Therefore, there is no NOx, cleaning is not enough, consumption is too high, and block 6 is a substitute for all blocks, because otherwise there will be no thermal energy from the toilet block. I think it was also said that Dermol is a member of SD. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also say that Kosorok is a member of the SDS, a visible member of the SDS. According to my information, even a member of the energy industry, what I know — it's nothing wrong, it's important that he can manage investments, that he has told us what he's really done about it, and it's important that both of you know how to run both companies that run them. They also talk about Tot, the former director, being able to manage an investment for a billion and 300 million euros. You know, Tot gave up. The former HSE Director has been dismissed, and we now have a new leadership. This leadership has only done a fair analysis of the cost of the project today. This analysis was obtained by the Minister, and we have also said this analysis. Let me read to you what it says in Del today: "On the day of the signing of the contract between TES and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and for the finance, on 30 November last year, the real value of the project was almost €1.43 billion. This is former TES Director Simon Tot and Project Manager Miran Žgajner knew much earlier, at least in mid-2011. They addressed a letter to HSE director Matjaž Janežič, made sure that he was kept in the envelope and only Janežič received it. It made it clear that the real price of the project is €1.4 billion, but also said that NIP 4 will produce 1.3 billion euros in optimistic terms." Who's lying now? Who's not telling the truth? A letter was also sent to the Ministry in March 2012, in which members of the TES Supervisory Board Branko Sevčičnikar and Franc Rosec were reminded of the distortion and it was clear that the project exceeded EUR 1.45 billion among the members of the project group. This is what they wrote in March 2012, ladies and gentlemen. Then we signed a contract here in December. The government signed a contract with TES and said that a billion 300 is a real investment. Another conflict is referred to here in terms of conflict of interest, because Dean Besednjak is also Vice-President of the TES Supervisory Board and Miran Žgajner, Director of HSE Invest. That's what it says here. But the letter was also discussed in the TES Supervisory Board on 19 March 2012, where Deputy Project Director Branko Debeljak said that he and Žgajner wrote Janežić that the project would be more expensive than planned. The crown of all deception was the date of signature of the contracts for the approval of the guarantee, on 30 November last year. Prior to the signature, a meeting of the TES Supervisory Board was held this morning, at which Tot informed the supervisors that the State's conduct in obtaining the State guarantee, or Alstoma's suspension, resulted in approximately EUR 33 million of additional costs not included in the NIP 5. This project was worth at least EUR 1.333 billion in the morning, and Tot then suggested to the supervisors that it would be appropriate to consider and sue the country. These are all written documents that no one has denied or said, and so I ask the following questions. If the NIP 1 was adopted in 2007 at the rate of €70 million, who today has the right to talk about the value of 600 million at the time?Oh, my God! This NIP was adopted, and we got it when we accepted the guarantee. That's the letter we got. That's what the guarantee says. NIP 2 was 1. 3. 2009 in the value of €424 million, €555 000. NIP 3 — billion 189 million, NIP 4 — billion 302 million, and NIP 5 — billion 302. Ladies and gentlemen, NIP 2, NIP 4 and NIP 5 were not real NIPs. The right price was the one they're already 1. 3. 2009 in NIP 2 stated that the right price is the one they can make a project with without someone being succulent and without someone doing what they could be ashamed of. All those who spoke of being attached to the suction of funds at the thermal power plant Shostanj, tell us who did it. Have that and tell me who did it. Tell me, we'll be happy to do everything else that needs to be done. But that is how we speak in the National Assembly and bring confusion among our citizens because they do not know who to believe. Then it's no wonder we're where we are after this rating. On the question of when there was a speech, whether I trust Block 6, I said I trusted. That's when someone asked me what I would do for it. I said I'd give up my assets. I have half the house, half the house has a husband. But they could have taken it from me, I agree, but I don't know. But I have half the house. I am prepared to invest half the house, but the competent minister was not at the time to call for an initiative and withdraw the privatisation of TES 6. Then where am I supposed to put this half of my house? Where do you want me to put it? Let us be alert to what we say, and let us be smart about what we are doing. I am in favour of giving support to the conclusions that the Government will try to provide the right data, on which we can say that Block 6 is in the Heat Power Plant at such a stage that we can end it, and that we will not accuse anyone. But if anyone knows about anyone, tell them, because they can't wait to report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. Mrs. Jenko is not with us. Mr. Bogovich, then Mr. Han, Jože Tanko and Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u106	Have a nice hello again! At the beginning of this debate, which I have closely followed, I have already put forward the position of the Group of Members, in which my opinion is also covered. Finally, because there is not much time, I would like to agree that I am also supporting the proposals made by the applicant for today's meeting, as well as the proposals adopted by the Government, which have been summarised on the Infrastructure Committee, and which speak in this direction, that the Government is in charge of really trying to bring this project to an end, and that it is trying to establish the situation on the project accurately and also to identify the possible errors that have taken place at that time. In the beginning, I warned, and once again, through the debate, it was confirmed that this is certainly not a topic that the National Assembly should be talking about, but should basically put energy policy into the strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia. A national energy programme has been mentioned. Like I said, I expected it. Even in the 2009 question of parliament, when I believe it was deep, Mr Meh, as you said when the NIP 2 was known when the numbers were so big, it was time for a sober reflection. I agree with those who have found today that there are very many generals after the battle. I am glad that I was then a regular warrior before the battle, and at that time, on the basis of that thought, we could make a different, wiser move for the country. Surely, however, these decisions have never been easy and easy. I expect from the Government that, on the basis of this experience, it will truly be identified to future investments, even to the very consequences of this investment, which will burden future investments to a certain extent. In the Slovenian energy system, I believe we have made some mistakes in recent years. This industry could be in a much better state today than it is, and it could be more profitable than it has been before. It could also be a better perspective for the Slovenian economy. I believe that, on the basis of these experiences, it is also certain to consider the consequences of co-financing renewable energy, where we have also made up our minds and have not entered into strategic documents, and then to hunt as firefighters for a situation either when too much biogas was built in Slovenia and when we found that they are threatening the blood balance, or when, through a large installation of photovoltaics, it was already necessary to pay EUR 140 million from the Slovenian economy's contributions this year. When these comparisons are made with neighbouring countries and other countries, it is important to be very careful. In Germany, where renewable resources are on the march, these subsidies are paid from contributions paid by citizens and citizens at the price of electricity, not by the economy. They can pay them because their earnings are about three times higher than in Slovenia. When Bulgaria tried to include this price in the price of electricity for households, the government fell and there were riots in the streets, so it is necessary to know that the thermoenergy in Germany is on a hike because there is a whole range of daily trenches. When it was decided that renewables would also restore thermal energy, it was clear that this thermoenergy is at its own price, such as in Slovenia's nuclear energy – about 35 euros per megawatt. That is why it is often thought of. I think that sometimes there is too much in-house debate in Parliament, so I really expect that in the autumn when these conclusions, which will certainly be adopted today, will experience realisation, a more responsible debate, and also a clear picture of TES. As far as the consequences are concerned, I really expect someone to pour pure wine at the time and to guess about the financial situation of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant and Slovenian Energy due to the consequences of the investment TES provides and determine where Slovenian energy will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! I'm going to save you some time and I'm not going to discuss this politically, as I said at the outset. However, I appeal to the competent minister and to the Government to make a realistic assessment of the situation in which we are in this investment, to bring this investment to a transparent and, above all, transparent end, and that in this procedure, when the Minister finds out, and I believe that he will find out if the mistakes of individuals in this investment have been made, we will also call these individuals to account in some way. I thank all those of you who have debated today, but I must say that some of the debates have been a little over but what we want – we are in the National Assembly and sometimes we have to listen to things that do not belong in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. First, an analogy or comparison with the government of Borut Pahor. Both governments, this one and the Pahors, have a point. Firstly, an increase in deficits across all reasonable borders. Secondly, increasing employment in public administration. The third common property is the enormous increase in the country's most expensive investment. This happened both times at TES. This means that the technology of the Pahor's Government has also been fully reflected in this government. Nothing else is going on, as we have already seen in the mandate of the Prime Minister, Borut Pahor. Mr Minister said he needed a decision from the National Assembly to make order. He doesn't need it. By duty, by official duty, it is therefore the minister to work on his department, clean, order and work order. That's why he's a minister, not because of the necessary decision of the National Assembly. The decision taken by the Government at the last meeting also means that the costs of this project will continue to be stretched as meth. The decision proposed by the Government only means that there will be an additional €140 million built on these projected 140 million for such or other needs. This decision only means that. If Mr Minister says that the costs of this investment have already been the same as they are now, then he doubts all the documents that have been adopted, he concludes that this is the case, and that is not the case in fact. Such sovereign answers, which have no basis and credibility, are very problematic. The Government's decision to give jurisdiction to the Court of Auditors also has no basis. What the government has accepted, and probably these conclusions have gone through the government's legislative service, is not even at the heart of it. The third decision, which speaks of the Court of Auditors, is declassified. The second conclusion and the fourth conclusion, however, allow for the extension of the investment, as is the case with harmonica, and an investment will be built, without any knowledge of what needs. From what we have heard today, Alstom has two teams, one in Alstom, one in the parent company, and another in the TES, otherwise those who have represented the interests of this country could not sign these contracts or annexes that do not have a deadline or a final price. That's impossible! All those who are currently engaged in investment in the real sector know that it is impossible that the project payer is exclusively the Republic of Slovenia or an investor in state ownership and that the contractor suffers no consequences. It's a unique, unique, such a contract. Apparently, as I said before, Alstom has a double crew, one that works for a parent company in his country and one that works for that company in our country. I think it would be appropriate for the Government to take any decision on whether to make or request a review of how the financial flows from Alstom flow after those who have concluded a contract with Alstom. This would be an important matter, and I think there is much to be learned in this area. The minister said one plus one isn't always two. It's mathematical, I guess, but it's not. This means some prediction that this investment will be further built up through the other components of this recalculation and redistribution. I am very concerned that this will be done in this way, because every thing that is written in the project has a number in the end. The content item has a number at the end, and when you add it up, it's the price of an investment. There can't be anything else unless someone else thinks of some component, writes, recalculates, revalues. That's possible. Otherwise, these things are not possible in investment. I must say that I am concerned, for it shows that there will be another gold lake for one or three or five of those who have worked with these things. I think we're going to have another headache about this investment because these things aren't finished, they're not finished, but the minister is going to upgrade them. Those lobbyists who were involved in this investment, including the Salesians, may eventually be rewarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u111	Who was the first for the replica? Dr. Jelusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Comrade Tanko mentioned Pahor's government and its enormous increase in investment. I think you misunderstood the data today. The enormous increase in this investment was made during the Janša government, initially between 2006 and 2007, from 690 million in the first investment project at NIP 1, to a billion 70 million. Then, in March 2009, as soon as we came to power, our government met with a billion 400 million because the calculation was obviously made during your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u114	I am protesting Mr Tank's way of saying that another lake will be created at the investment of Block 6. This isn't a joke with us. With us daily there are new pits, new lakes, and daily are saved by the assets and lives of people who suffer in some way from the mining of coal. So it seems to me that this is completely depressed, that it is malicious and pushes back on what I said before – if there is anything wrong in Block 6 then for God's sake, do it again and tell me what's wrong. If anyone pulls anything out of Block 6, let them know what they're going to do, but I said – not even the euro in the road, not in the sewer, not in the building, not anywhere, not what's going on in Block 6. Someone earlier said that in TES, foreigners also do painting. Ladies and gentlemen, for a peaceful conscience – Slovenian dancers work in TES.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. This was, however, a discussion in the context of the replica. He also asked the Minister for his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Tanko! Everything I said in the introductions, you got a little mixed up. What you were saying was not even close to the context of what I wanted to report, but I will not deal with the details of your statement. Why are we sitting here today? Because the investment has been successfully completed in the 1.2 billion euro range? Are we sitting because we are exactly 1.3 billion euros? No, no, no. We are all sitting together today because there is a serious threat that this investment will be greater. That's what I'm talking about. What we are proposing, the conclusions we need are the very ones that will allow us as a government to come to the right data once and that we will ultimately decide on real data, that we will not repeat the error you made in your government when you made a decision based on the NIP 5, which today clearly shows that it was unrealistic and that you made decisions on unrealistic data. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Visjak is also on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u118	Your Honor! What the Minister has just said is not true. Why isn't it true? Because we are not here to give the government powers to control and effectively frame this investment. These conclusions, Your Honor, have already been adopted by Parliament on 31 May, when the distinguished Minister was already in his position. It adopted the conclusion that it calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the actual state of the value of the investment, to prevent further reflection of the project by supervisory activities and to incorporate it into the law, the guarantee law, which was adopted at EUR 1,302 million, and to report it to Parliament. Your Honor, how long has she been reporting to Parliament? By 21. 6. 2013 Have you received any government reports on this? I didn't. This is what the parliamentary committees adopted in May this year, and it is not for us, Madam Minister, to say that you do not have the authority to send Parliament to do so. You already have these instructions and powers by your supervisory role as a member of the government, not to mention that we have already asked you to do so in Parliament during the duration of your term of office. Did you respond within the time limit that Parliament imposed on you?Oh, my God! You're not. You were even surprised at the committee today, which is the date of 21. 6. 2013 Your Honor, these are the facts. When we analyze this investment, there's only one thing we can figure out. This investment was already on the verge of economic efficiency when I was an economic minister myself. She had a whole bunch of advantages. It had the advantage of exploiting domestic energy lignite to produce electricity, which had the advantage of having a lot of synergies with life and employment, especially in the Silesian Valley, as well as wider. It also had its shortcomings because it used a fossil source and had its shortcomings because the price of electricity produced was relatively high and because the price of input energy, coal, was relatively high. At the time, it was difficult to weigh this investment. I was involved because we weighed this investment at the strategic level. However, we recognized it in the situation that prevailed when the Janša government ruled between 2004 and 2008, which were still acceptable, even manageable. When we assessed this investment, the situation was still manageable, despite the fact that the investment value had increased. However, as soon as things changed dramatically in electricity markets in 2009, even in consumption, we warned the competent institutions that this investment should be reconsidered. I personally wrote my letter to the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor, and I gave him my opinion on this project and also on the lobbying, in particular the jokes that affect this project. Nothing happened. The project continued. He hasn't changed his mind about this project, and today we have what we have. To say that only now will there come a time when in some way we will try to find and get to the truth, even on the basis of these conclusions, is deception. For today, we all collectively estimate that this investment has certain risks for future generations. The risks are because the investment has increased to this number, and the risks are because it will not be possible to sell electricity as a product of this facility, at the prices at which we thought it would be possible to sell. Not that we thought – professional institutions have set it up and recorded it in the last updated and reviewed investment programme. The issue shows that there will be a problematic visa for profitability. I am pleased that the Government is aware of this and that you have adopted very similar conclusions on this subject in the future, as proposed by the proposer of this meeting. There's no difference between us. One of us is alone, but an extremely important difference. This is that we insist, until there are other relevant documents, that the maximum investment value is EUR 302 million and something else, as set out in the guarantee contract. We do not agree that today it is the power to judge that this investment will not be made at this price! For if we agree to do so today, we give to all those whom you have no influence and to whom no minister has ever affected the investment bearers – what they will do with the various variables of this investment in the future! The investment with a cap of €1.302 million must also continue until the professional bases to be reviewed have been determined otherwise. Your Honor, that's the only difference. We insist that it remains an investment value at this level, and you say in your conclusions that we also find out in the National Assembly, because we confirm the Government's findings that the project does not provide implementation in time and price frameworks as defined in the investment decision. This is probably the decision-making process in Parliament when we talked about the guarantee. I guess that's what it means, I don't know when else we'd be deciding on this investment here. We've never made a decision before, never. This investment has never been decided by Parliament. It's probably meant. I do not agree, Minister, to the fact that, on the basis of some personal feelings, the Government estimates that the investment will be more expensive, or on the basis of the claim of this leadership, which I believe in just as much as I believed in the previous or the previous one. By the way, respected Social Democrats, Mr Rotnik, who was one of the bearers of the investment, for which the minister finds that it was catastrophically guided, is now the director of Velenja Municipale. He's also running some kind of investment in Velenje Municipale. Is that what he's good for? How community service users will pay Velenje for services if they are managed about as the minister estimates — bad or catastrophic. They're probably people who belong in the same nest, where you end up rewarding them for it. Dearly beloved, we do not agree to the auctioning of this facility, we do not agree to a blank board of leadership, any crisis or normal or super leadership, to encourage the Bianca to invest for another 100, 200, 300 million euros. We're not docking! A billion EUR 302 million is a cap adopted by the National Assembly. If you want to lift this cap, then you will have to come to the National Assembly with the amended guarantee law. Here are the only differences between yours and our views today on this investment. There is no talk here today about the need to withdraw consent to this guarantee because we know this is impossible. There is no talk here today about the need to move away from this investment, because I believe that we should have some serious analysis, that this is even possible, and how much it will cost. Today, it is only an assessment that this investment should not be encouraged and that the Government is preparing measures to manage the risks of this investment. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u120	Thank you very much. It's a replica of Mr. Visionary. I know this meeting is very tiring, it's exhausting, it's long, and it's a seven-hour blur, but Andrei, I don't know why you asked us Social Democrats where Mr Rotnik is the director of the commune. First you can ask, it will be easier for you, your former colleague, Mr. Ambassador Menich, because he is the mayor of Šostanja and he probably gave his consent that he is the director of the commune there because the municipality covers 3 municipalities – Šmartno ob Paki, Šostjanj and Velenje. At least where we are, the Social Democrats did not in any way choose where Rotnik would sit, which chair. Last but not least, Mr Rotnik ran in the last elections on the Slovenian People's Party list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u122	Just because someone is the director of the commune in the Shaleska Valley doesn't mean he's guilty of anything. When someone proves guilty to him, ladies and gentlemen, he can no longer be director. Once again, there was talk of lobbying in the Shaleska Valley — there are 45,000 lobbyists in the Shaleska Valley, and 275 of them disagree with the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Visjak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u124	No, I was happy to follow today's discussion. There is no fatigue here either, Sir Han, but I would only refer to the words of the Minister and of any other – in fact all. You've all estimated that this project was poorly run. Worse still, you have estimated that it was catastrophically guided and that this fact has also been identified by the institutions or commissions appointed by governments. Our government also appointed a committee of experts, which found that the project was poorly run. Mr Rotnik was the director of the Termoelectrica Šostanj, and a good part of this investment was led by all of us. If such a director, who is likely to be judged by some consensus here, has misguided this investment – I am not saying that he has committed any other acts for which other authorities such as the police are responsible, the prosecution. That's not what I'm saying. That's what others will find out. But he has certain investigations. Everyone has them, and until he's legally convicted, he's innocent. I fully agree with this, but that such a person gets from the political types of Social Democrats, which you have a key word for appointing the director of the commune – now you will tell me that Mr Meni from Šostanja has a key word in the appointment of the director of Velenje Municipale. This has the mayor of Velenje, whom we know that Mr Kontic, who was a Member, did not tell me what he was doing to me when we did not issue energy permits in the second they gave the role. He asked me three or four parliamentary questions — to the then minister and politically pressured him to do something faster than normal. You're saying that the director who led this project is good for Velenje. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, he said, see if this happened if the man is the director of Velenje Municipale! I just want to say that, as far as this is concerned, you're a little weird or a little double. On the one hand, you shimphate and accuse the project management, and on the other hand those who do this or who are the holders of this management get very important functions in the municipalities where you have a decisive, not 100 %, but a decisive word. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Just a minute. At first, he wanted the word "minister," but I heard a wish for a replica and a procedural one. Procedural first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u126	I would only ask you, Vice-President, to limit Mr Visiak to such debates, which do not concern Members and Appointments, because I, too, can begin to operate on the names that such or other parties have set forth and the kabayagi of these gentlemen are controversial. But I don't think that's the topic here, because I don't know who from Parliament can set up the director of the commune. I don't think there is a person in this House who could set up a municipal director anywhere. That's incorrect, because I can talk about the Timers, about the Turks, etc. I also explain how they were successful and still received their seats. So, that sucks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. You just did what you said you shouldn't do. Now, here's a word for the replica, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u128	Apparently, Mr Rotnik is good because in 2009 he wrote in the NIP 2 that the project is worth a billion 424 million. You will not believe that NIP 6 is today worth a billion 440, 468, almost exactly as much as Mr Rotnik said when he did. That's why I'm saying it's professional in this case, not just that. That's it. The Rotniks are unanimously appointed by the three mayors of the Shale Valley. There's no way one mayor can name him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Now the Minister, then Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u130	Dear Mr Vizjak, I would like to refer to your previous performance because the President has forgotten me. I hope it's not on purpose. Mr. Visjak, regarding the performance earlier, when you accused me and this government of being guilty of imitating this project. Mr Visjak, believe me – because you are doing quite well with demagogies, but believe me, that was enough. The Slovenian public has enough of these demagogies. You've been in the government three times, you've had your chance, so I'm asking you to stop fooling around. That's enough. Believe me, it's also clear to the public what it is that this demagogism will not lead us anywhere. What I have come to Parliament today and for which I ask your support, and you understand this very well, is that I get support, that we will once make an order on this project and on all the projects that will take place in this country. This is a key message. So please, you've had your chance, and now give us a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. I didn't miss you on purpose. Now he has the word, Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u132	Your Honor! I didn't tell the minister anything but that he didn't comply with the decision of the National Assembly. That's all, Minister. If you're running a demagogy, don't read it to others. I have been very specific and I will be specific once again, and please answer me specifically, without demagogies, whether in accordance with Parliament's conclusions you have reported to Parliament by 21. 6. about the investment! Did you report on this and determine the actual state of the value of the investment and with control activities prevented further reflection of the project and reported it to Parliament by 21. 6. 2013?Oh, my God! This is a Parliament decision of 31 May this year! Dearly beloved, if this is a demagogism, if I ask the Minister about the fulfilment of concrete commitments – now I do not have a magnetogram or a vote, but I believe that we have unanimously supported those conclusions at the time, that it was not against because they are good conclusions. Minister, then, May 21st, we have ordered you to make an order on this investment and we have also instructed you to tell us something about it by 21. 6. 2013! You haven't even sent a piece of paper to Parliament, let alone a report on it, and now you're telling me that you want these powers today. You already have these powers, and all you're saying is some deviation from the facts we're giving you. Once again, we, the well-respected minister, differ from your efforts in just one thing. I'm going to do this five times today because apparently I have to because he doesn't want to understand. With the Government's conclusions that you proposed at the government's correspondence meeting yesterday, you want to reopen and not define the amount of investment because you find that the project cannot be implemented within the set price frameworks. That means it'll be more expensive, according to your household. Am I wrong? It will be more expensive, and you will find this on the basis of your feelings, because there is no relevant reviewed document to testify to this. We say that it is not right that it must be until there is a document that will bear witness to the expansion of the investment, which will also survive the review, the value of an investment of EUR 302 million. If you're going to say it's okay for you to agree to this, then we agree practically on everything that we've discussed here today. But no, you're opening this field and you want us to give you the authority to make order. The powers to make order are already vested in you with Parliament's conclusions, including these additional conclusions today and also in your role – as Minister, you are responsible for the control of certain matters in energy. But I'm not asking you to talk about some demagogy because you're going. Be specific. In particular, I ask you whether you have reported to Parliament the reasons for the instigation of the investment and for how much the investment will, according to your assessment, be undermined.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u134	Dear Mr. Vizjak, after a ton of your voice, I see that I have hit a painful spot. Let me tell you something else. With that tone and that kind of performance, believe me, you won't achieve anything with me. With that tone and that kind of performance, you certainly won't get an answer from me. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u135	The Minister answers questions [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Pavlič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u136	Madam President, that is exactly what I wanted to remind you of, what the Minister has now warned you to do, to silence Mr Visiak a little, and to reduce the intensity of such hysteria all day. He was on the board, too. That's exactly what I was going to say -- that when you step on a cat's tail, it's going to work. Let's cut back a little bit, because if the faist crashes, he won't convince the Slovenian public. I guess we're right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your warning. But I have heard from Mr Visiak that he has asked some questions that he has not received an answer to. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. We've been here about seven hours. The government had 60 minutes to announce. After all efforts, the Minister spent 6 minutes, and in these six minutes failed to answer this procedural question related to the work of the Committee which adopted this decision. As chairman, I ask you, who in the National Assembly is responsible for the implementation of the conclusions adopted by the working bodies or by the National Assembly and are not being processed within a period of time? Who's in charge? Is the President of the National Assembly responsible for the work of the National Assembly? Is it likely that there is someone in the government who cares about what the government needs to prepare and accept in order to get some things into the National Assembly within the time frame? It's a big project. Right now it's the biggest investment in the country. Mr. Secretary is moving around and says he needs some conclusions he's already got. He doesn't need them, because what he says he wants to do should be on official duty, on official duty. That is why we have a minister – to perform tasks without coming to the National Assembly to ask what he can do. This is a complete ignorance of the division of power, and it is a pity that we have such ministers that they do not know that they must report to the National Assembly if the National Assembly accepts something. It is almost a month after the deadline has expired, and because of the absence of this report, it is also this meeting. That's because of what you didn't realize, Minister. If the government of Alenka Bratušek were consistent and respected the commitments and promises she made in the coalition program, she would do these things as it was written there. I suggest that I get an answer to who in the National Assembly is concerned that decisions taken by working bodies or by the National Assembly come to the National Assembly. When we have, say, questions from Members of Parliament, we get a list of questions that are not answered within the deadline. When we take decisions on committees or on the working bodies of the National Assembly or in the National Assembly, we do not get this report. I call on the President of the National Assembly to say how we will arrange for these matters to take place in a manner consistent with the conclusions of the working bodies or the conclusions of the National Assembly. Then government officials, ministers, come in here, and they know what they need. He had this on his desk for two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u140	Dear Vice-President, I know that Jože Tanko is your direct boss, but this does not give you the chance to give him your word because the SDS is running out of time and Mr Jože Tanko should not speak and explain the procedural proposal for three minutes. If we go to the rules, then the rules are the same. I am not talking about the content of what he was saying, but, Madam Vice-President, Jože Tanko is now as a long-standing Member and as your boss has used it and he has been telling and teaching us what to do. No problem, if that's what he's telling us, it's more of a problem because he's been talking about what the minister has to do. I think you've given him too much permission to speak now and he's taken advantage of it. I shouldn't have gotten the word because the SDS is running out of time. Thank you very much. Please warn him he won't try procedural again. Andrej can still talk because he's got some time left, so that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Han, you have taught us now, but you probably know that too – whether time is left or not, the procedural proposal must always be taken into account. Now we will see what Mr Meh will say in the context of the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u142	I propose that, in the context of the procedural proposal, you share the time, open the application and thus solve the complication that we will obviously spend all our time here. I guess we'll talk all the time. What Tanko has done is not fair, it is not fair, and so, ladies and gentlemen, it does not work in the National Assembly. In this way, you can gain positive points from your peers, but not from the nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u143	Mr Meh, your proposal is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. I propose that, in the rest of the time, we discuss articles or points that are open and amendments to these points. We have three points and there's an amendment to each point. Who wants more? [[...]] Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, leaders of the parliamentary groups, deputy leaders of the parliamentary groups, I suggest that you read at least the 69th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – the minimum necessary to lead the parliamentary group at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the Minister how many months it will take for him to respond to the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which he instructed him to do by 21. 6. 2013 reports to the competent committees on the TEC. I have a procedural question to ask how many months it will take for us to know whether we will have to accept it in August to submit a request for a re-session of the National Assembly. This is a process proposal. The Minister does not know that he has a decision to report to the National Assembly and has failed to carry out the task entrusted to him. He didn't make it happen. I would like a public and clear answer how many months it takes to avoid wasting our time with extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly on this issue in order to respond to what was imposed on it in May. Thank you and I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. On a procedural basis, I would like to explain the request made by my colleague Tanko. The decision that Mr Vizjak read was taken on the working body. It is the responsibility of the president of the working body to review the implementation of the decisions adopted by the working body and to require the competent ministries to report. This competence of the working body cannot be transferred to the National Assembly. I am sure that this procedure will also be brought down by the president of the working body, where this decision has also been adopted, and this is also the right procedure. All working bodies are reviewed, if they decide to, implement the conclusions, and I am procedurally proposing that this matter be carried out at the working body, not today at the meeting of the National Assembly, because this is also provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We've come up with an answer. This is a matter of two parent work bodies, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, led by Mr Bevk, and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, led by Mr Starman, who will oversee the implementation of the conclusions in the future. Nevertheless, I propose that we move forward and discuss the remaining issues on the agenda as part of the rest of the time. I can conclude the general debate and turn to the discussion on the points of the complementary draft report and on the amendments tabled. Mr. Tanko, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Madam President, I have asked the Minister a specific question. The Minister is here and I suggest you answer this question because he has 56 minutes or 54 minutes left. All I need is time. At the same time, I would like to point out that I am not surprised by this problem and this ignorant person, because if the President of the Government has come to the Master's, then the leadership of the government is deplorable. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u149	Mr Tanko, we must say correctly that the Minister can answer if he wants to, but if he doesn't, he doesn't have to. The minister says he doesn't want to answer. Let's move on. We're at point one. [[advertising from the hall]] May I have your attention, because we have two amendments to deal with. The first is the amendment, this point and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Afterwards, an amendment came to the e-club that she had tabled – I will be precise here because it is a little unclear. The chapter states that it has been tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, the Group of the Social Democrats, the Group of the National Gazette and the Group of Ambassadors of DeSUS. It is not clear that only the deputy head of the Group of Positive Slovenia has been signed in the background or at the end of this amendment. If you can confirm that this is different, we will accept it, or we will consider it an amendment by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. The amendment is correctly submitted, in time, but there are no suitable signatures. It was inserted just before the implants on the e-club. Dear Mrs Žgajner Tavš, you will explain, but in the context of the debate. Please explain the matter in the context of the debate. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Just 10 minutes of rest to review the amendment, I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u151	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tanko, it is possible to take a break on a proposal before the vote. I suggest we stick to the rules of procedure. We continue the debate. In explanation, those who have tabled the amendment will probably explain what this is about, then we will decide on it, and before making a decision, we will be able to take a break if you demand it. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me to explain briefly that there will be no confusion about the amendment correctly tabled. We have coordinated the amendment in the coalition Positive Slovenia, SD, National List and Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. The amendment, whose only signatory is Positive Slovenia or is my signature on it, can be considered a coordinated amendment of the coalition. If you wish, you can also consider it an amendment of Positive Slovenia, which is coalitionly coordinated and is also in line with the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u153	Thanks for the explanation. I've just explained the actual state of affairs, whether there's coordination between you or not, but it's your judgment. Anyone else would like to discuss the first point and the amendment of the SDS Group or the amendment of the Positive Slovenia Group? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u154	Your Honor! The amendment tabled by the parliamentary group is very contradictory in the first indent. On the one hand, it notes that the project does not provide performance in time and price frameworks, but also notes that the reasons for the increase are not evident from the documentation available. It notes that it will become irritable and that the reasons for this are not clear. We insist that the investment should not be increased, and this is the subject of the SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this point or amendments? If not, we are moving to point 2 and to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group at point 2. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u156	Respected! It's very simple. In point 2, we recommend that the Government does not deviate from the value of the investment as set out in the guarantee law at any level until there are relevant reviewed documents for this purpose. We want the Bianca not to get any bigger, but the first conclusion goes in the direction of increasing the Bianca. We want the government to frame the investment value or to work through its role to frame the investment value within the guarantee law of EUR 302 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss point two? Mr. Vogrin, you don't have any more time and you can't discuss it anymore. I'm sorry. Who else has time? If not, I'm closing the debate. We're moving to point three. I am putting to the debate the 3rd item and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u158	We estimate that it is necessary for the Government to give this time by 30 October to prepare this, so we are summarizing their timeframes and no longer insisting on our own. We propose that the Government report on the implementation of government measures by 30 October.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your explanation, Mr. Visjak. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, we're done with the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Check the voting devices. Anybody else want to add anything before we vote? If not, then we are indeed going to the vote. [[advertising from the hall]] Just a moment, I'll explain everything, and I want to know what Mr. Tanko is going to propose. Does this proposal apply? We can go to the vote. Given that we have – just a moment so that there is no delay in voting. At the 1st point, we have two amendments, namely the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. We will first vote on the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want an explanation for the voice because I hear it from the bench? First on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u160	Your Honor! Today we have been discussing this for many hours, so, Madam Vice-President, if I do not bother this Parliament in the future, I would explain the vote on all the amendments proposed by the Group of Members on points 1, 2 and 3, because I am truly sorry that we have stayed on the various shores only on one, but I think we have very important circumstances. This applies to the second recommendation, but I will talk about it and then I will not report to the second recommendation. We estimate that there is absolutely no valid reason for the National Assembly to attach to the Government and to support the Government's conclusions, which states that the project cannot be provided in the time and price framework as set out in the revised investment programme 5 in September 2012. We believe that this can be ensured, as the NIP 5 witness testifies to this NIP 5 review and is also witnessed by the former TES management, who estimates that this project can be put under the roof of EUR 1.3 billion. The Government’s decision or conclusion states that the investment will be prolonged and further undermined, but does not indicate on the basis of which findings on which facts, how long it will be extended and how long it will be undermined. We didn't get that information today. We've only learned that they're assessing that this is going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough, and this is a brilliance to those who are leading the investment, so that this investment will really get worse, because if we give and insist on the cap of this investment, then this investment will not get irritable. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall have all the powers of the National Assembly with the previously cited decision of the Finance and Infrastructure Committees to supervise and limit this investment within the framework of the revised investment programme 5. I ask that until the Government comes to Parliament with other relevant documents, we respect what Parliament adopted last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. We can go to the vote. We're voting on the first amendment. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the second amendment of Positive Slovenia. Explanation of voice. Who wants it? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment cannot be supported because it imposes or proposes to the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the TES project. The Court of Auditors has no jurisdiction in this project. I am surprised that the Government and the coalition that are proposing this are consciously proposing something that is impossible, just to give the public the impression that there will be an audit somewhere that cannot happen. It's a delusion. It is strange that you have not yet written that the KPK should do so, which is now, after a new involvement in the sale of all investments. As long as the Government proposes decisions that do not have a basis in law, and as long as the coalition in the National Assembly proposes conclusions that do not have a basis in law, we know that this is a bluff. Until then, we know that this investment is going to go up not to 140, as has been said, but 140, plus this 140. This is an open article in order to re-emphasize something abnormal, and it is procedurally the same as it did in the Pahor government when all those things that should not have been triggered – increasing the gap, increasing employment in public administration and encouraging the biggest investment. This is a conclusion that leads exactly to this. The coalition and the minister are consciously accepting this today. If the Government proposes such a decision and has not looked into the legislation, then the Government shall carry out its task recklessly. If a minister comes here to defend the position of a government for which there is no basis in law, then something is wrong in this country. Such a decision cannot be supported because it is incompatible with the legislation, with the powers conferred on the Court of Auditors. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Meh on behalf of the delegation? In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u164	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u165	Just a minute. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you are, Mr. Golubovic, on behalf of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u166	Good-bye! We are adding an amendment to the first indent of the first point, and in this part the text is added that the reasons for the increase in the value of the investment are not sufficiently apparent from the documentation available. The documentation available also does not provide sufficient basis for further decisions. Today, it has been found that the documentation we received is somehow not enough to be able to give the Bianca in any way, as you say, an increase in the price. If we read all the indents under point 1 – we have a third indent where the Ministry responsible for infrastructure requires that an independent international specialised company prepare a review of possible options for TES6. On the basis of this, we understand, it will be possible to decide what and how to proceed with this investment. It certainly seems to me that the conclusions adopted today by the National Assembly are the right basis for us to get to the bottom of an investment by TES 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u167	Mr Pavlišič on behalf of the Group of the People's List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Let's read the first indent. It notes that the project does not provide performance in time and price frameworks as defined in the investment decision. [[advertising from the hall]] No, when it comes to deciding on the investment. When was the investment decision taken, and with what amount? If I look at this material, which I cannot quote, it was once at the time of one other government with some completely different figures that we agree that it is no longer possible to implement in these respects. That's what you agree with. This indent does not refer to the guarantee decision, but refers to the investment decision, not the guarantee, which was made last year and where the amount of 300 million was used. So, Mr. Vizjak, you've been missing a little bit here, this has nothing to do with this billion 300 here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u169	Mr Pavlišič, that was an explanation for the voice, not the controversy. To explain my own name, I'm opening up the possibility of applying because I've seen more wishes before if anyone wants to apply. Three reported. The first is Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u170	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! The amendment proposed by the Government and tabled by the coalition is absolutely unacceptable. I do not accept it because of the first indent, which notes that the project does not provide performance in time and price frameworks. Presently, the door opens much more wide. We have allowed an inappropriate deadline for completion and, worse still, an inappropriate price framework for this investment. I absolutely cannot support such a conclusion. Today, we have not received an answer from the Minister either, because he did not perform his work to prepare a report on this until 21. 6. no answer to whether this is final or what the final investment will be. That's what no one in the country can tell us. Now we have opened the door to this investment even more widely. Such a decision, which does not provide an implementation deadline and does not provide a price framework, cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u171	Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u172	I will support this amendment. There is no indication in the material that this report would be a condition for the Government to do what it has to do, so it seems appropriate for me to support this amendment. Someone said earlier that Pahor's government had promoted the project. Forgive me. She reduced it, as it says here, because out of a billion, 400 in 2009 there was a billion 189 and in 2011 a billion 302. This is written in the material we received when we discussed the guarantee in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u173	Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. If they hold Mr Tank's remarks that the Court of Auditors has no jurisdiction, then I do not think we can vote on this. I will quote my friend Ivan Simic, former director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Do you know how people feel about this exercise? He said the following, and he even wrote, I think in the magazine Money. "I feel like I'm being locked up in a coffin. I scream, but no one hears me." What state are we that we do not know that the government does not know that Parliament does not know if it is true, what Mr Tanko says that the Court of Auditors does not have jurisdiction? And we're going to take a decision to revise? What kind of country are we? What's wrong with us? What happened in this exercise? I don't think we can accept this and we can't accept it, we can't. Let's just say we don't know how to comply with the legislation ourselves or someone has to tell Mr Tank that that's not true. I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Once again, I am opening the time for my application because there are several candidates to discuss or explain the vote. Sign up, please. Mr. Breznik, Dr. Jelušič and Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u176	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. I hope you understand now that this is some kind of fiasco about this amendment. Today, the President of the Court of Auditors himself said that he cannot enter TES 6 because he has no basis in marriage. But we're the legislative branch of power and we're waiting. You all claim to be lawyers, to be law students. We can't afford this right now, my respectable colleague and colleague. This isn't about some speculation, about one of ours, yours, but it's about respect for existing legislation in this area. I'm in charge of reviewing it right now, but first we need to change the law. This amendment of yours is a fiasco. You advertise as legal professionals, but you don't know the basis of the law. The President of the Court of Auditors himself said that today. Please, let me take this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Next up is Dr. Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, the amendment states that we are proposing to the Court of Auditors that, within the framework of our competences, we are aware that the Court of Auditors may carry out a review of the functioning of the HSE, which is owned by the State when it comes to the project TES 6. HSE! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Dr. Jelusich. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u180	Thank you. I will support the amendment of Positive Slovenia. I would join my colleague in this finding, and I believe that the Court of Auditors has sufficient competence to judge whether or not it has jurisdiction and decide what to do with it. I don't think we should take the authority to determine what they can and can't do. They'll decide for themselves. With regard to the revised evaluation of the project, and these billions of them, 300 million, I would like to draw attention to another matter. Once upon a time, there was an energy company called Enron. It was assisted by one other large international consulting firm – one of the five large then, now gone – Andersen Consulting, I think it was. This says a lot about what it means to revise in certain cases. If the investment programme is revised, this does not oblige the Minister to continue to act in accordance with what he should do. Our conclusion, too, that the Minister will obtain, as we have determined, that an independent international specialised company will prepare a review of possible options and proposals – this does not oblige the government and the minister to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u182	That there will be no misunderstandings, but I will not argue. I'm getting better, and we can wipe something out. That's why they're documents. However, [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute, you won't be looking forward to it. We or you have adopted the new SDH, where in Article 29a, the supervision of the Court of Auditors clearly states: "The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia revises the operation of SDH and the subsidiaries that SDH may establish." You're not gonna believe this! [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute! It can be revised when the matter is settled, so it's okay if it says so. I don't think we did. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, wait a minute, we didn't make any mistakes. Maybe Mr. Happy doesn't know this novel, maybe you didn't know it either. I suggest we keep this inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u183	Thank you very much. It's a late hour, and we're not going to delay it now, but it was also an abuse of the procedural proposal. Can we get to the vote or is there anyone else who wants to explain? Once again, I am opening the possibility to apply for explanations of vote on my behalf. Four have been reported: Mr Tanko, Mr Grims, Mr Pogačnik and Mr Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u184	Thank you very much. If my statement is not sufficient, I will read to you the statement by Tomaž Vesel, President of the Court of Auditors, regarding what you have accepted in government. He said very politely that the Government’s decision was somewhat surprising, since in his view the Court of Auditors does not consider that the Court of Auditors is competent to revise companies owned indirectly by the State. This is what the President of the Court of Auditors says, and now you are proposing that the Court of Auditors be competent. He can't carry out that task. The next thing you know, what you're proposing is a fog. You did not transfer almost any company or company to the holding company. Holding in this sense, as you say, does not exist, Mr. Han. The companies are owned by another company and the other arrangement is in force. You're suggesting there's something going on somewhere that isn't. I understand that if the coalition and if it controls the system, the coalition would propose a solution to what exists, but not sell fog to the National Assembly and the Slovenian public. Such a decision, which does not have a legal basis, cannot be supported and cannot be proposed. The President of the National Assembly responsible for the legality of the Council should reject such an amendment or request an amendment. This happened sometimes when there was a president of the National Assembly, but in this case you're obviously going over all the warnings. You don't have enough warning from us. You don't have enough warning from the President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u186	Given that some of us are willing to learn, to discuss, I propose a 15-minute break to bring the coalition in line with the agreement with the Government, that there be no confusion and that this amendment can still be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u187	Okay. Mr. Han, just a moment, there's no pause.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u188	I would only ask that Mr Vizjak does not help me because he has lied twice today when he said it would be quiet, but he has already volunteered three times.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u189	Mr Han, I have taken note of your proposal, but only a moment more – the pause will be before the vote. For the time being, the procedure is to complete the explanations of vote. The amendment cannot be amended. Just for the record. The next one to explain the voice is mag. Branko Grimes. Please, if you close the door and those who are in the hall, take your seats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u190	Good-bye to all of you! An amendment that is obviously unrealistic and without legal basis cannot be supported and will not be supported. What this whole session is witnessing, including this conclusion, is that transition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u191	Can you keep it down?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u192	The transition in Slovenia has not yet been completed and has failed. [[...]] What is the core of the transition? That you're changing and controlling everything, but actually, you're not changing anything. The whole story of how you exercise control, which is not control, because there is no basis for it, how the government turns into silence, when from 60 minutes on many issues when it comes to a billion 400 million money – 800 euros per citizen, every citizen, every child – spends 6 minutes. This is not offensive to this House – even if you want to – but it is offensive to the public who wants answers because the public will pay for it. That's what we pay taxpayers. We are all responsible to them together, and the government is their first responsibility. This silence she's wrapped herself in is howling into the sky. Because one simply wonders if it is obviously not about control, because what you are proposing is not realistic if the government obviously does not want to present relevant information about what is really going on. There's only one thing to know — who's gonna pay for it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I would like to ask that before the next one explains his voice that those who are in the hall take your seats and the rest of you do your interviews outside this hall. Mr. Han, a little respect for your colleagues who will explain their voice. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u194	President, thank you for your word and for calling for order in the Chamber. I can't support such an amendment. I cannot support it in particular because the President of the Court of Auditors himself opposes or doubts that the Court of Auditors is even competent and, on the other hand, he has expressed doubts about the effectiveness of such an audit. I am pleased that Mr Han has started to read the Slovenian State Holding Act. Such a proposal was made solely on the proposal of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. I expect that this debate was listened to by SD Group leaders, and also by SD President Lukšič, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, Finance Minister Andrej Cuffer, and that the members of the SDH Supervisory Board will finally be invited to the National Assembly to confirm the classification, to send it to the National Assembly to enter into force at all. This Article shall not apply at any given time because SDH does not exist. I would like to reiterate that the proposal to amend the law was your proposal. The President of the Court of Auditors himself expressed doubts. This is why such an amendment cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u196	As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I join my colleagues. It is really a little funny that in caring for some transparency and revision of the government and coalition partners propose something that they themselves know is impossible to execute, and it is a dead letter on paper. The Court of Auditors' audit is clearly out of order. The Court of Auditors will not do that, as reported by the President of the Court of Auditors. But my key problem with the amendment of the parliamentary groups is the contradiction of the first indent. The first indent states that the Government notes - and that the National Assembly supports the decisions and conclusions of the Government - that the project does not provide performance in time and price frameworks as defined when deciding on the investment in the available documentation. The investment was decided only in the case of the guarantee and never before and never later. If that's not the case, someone else should tell me it's different. Parliament has not dealt with this investment differently. I believe that this article refers to the NIP 5 and the value of EUR 1.3 billion. The government estimates that the value of this investment will be exceeded and that the start of this operation will be put forward. At the same time, it states, the same conclusion that the reasons for the increase are not sufficiently evident from the documentation available and that the documentation available does not provide sufficient grounds for amending further decisions. There is no reason for this increase, and there is no basis for a different decision, but a different decision is on the table — an increase. Tell me – this is contradictory! I agree with you if you delete the first part until it says that the reasons for the increase are not evident from the documentation available. If first part of the sentence is deleted [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u197	Thank you very much. All I see is Mr. Kavticnik. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, but I think my colleague Visjak is very good at seducing. I think he's more afraid of the third indent, where, with the help of an independent international specialised company, we should come up with some conclusions, perhaps those that you're afraid of coming to – that you've been reckless in the SDS in any way or other in managing this investment and in overseeing this investment. That's the key problem. What no government has discovered in six years and has not come to a conclusion, this government came to these conclusions within three months. Now there's this terrible pain that you haven't been able to figure out in six years.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u199	We're still talking about explanations of vote. We're done here. The explanation for the vote is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I propose that when we decide to support this amendment or this first point, we read the text as set out here. Here the National Assembly finds out what the government has done. The government also decided on some things when it adopted development projects from 2007 to 2023. I don't see this contradiction, it's just that the text has to be addressed in a contextual way. It is true, however, that on the other side of this amendment or the text we have now received, there is an explanation that opens up the dilemma that was previously triggered with regard to the Minister's response to the conclusions of the two working bodies. If you ask me, it's real-time from May 31st to June 21st, but that's the thing about the two working bodies that accepted it. But this amendment is justified precisely by the fact that it is in connection with what the minister or government must do in response to the working body. With regard to the decisions taken by the working bodies and the National Assembly, the crown of creation was adopted by the decision on the discharge of five members of the Supervisory Council of RTV Slovenia, which was illegal, and the National Assembly, under the chairmanship of some other people, adopted this! We have already adopted illegal decisions, and this is only a recommendation within the scope of competence! These powers will be determined whether they are or not. I don't have a problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We'll be done soon. I cannot support this amendment myself, and I warn Members to read in detail this amendment, the first indent of which says that it notes that the project does not provide implementation in time and price frameworks as defined in the investment decision. But in the last part, he says the National Assembly supports the government's decisions. The National Assembly decided on the investment only within the framework of the guarantee law and under the NIP 5. No other decisions were taken by the National Assembly in relation to this investment, so do not deceive. We have no authority to decide anything and if we take such a decision, we give a blank opinion to the Ministry so that this investment can be increased and that this project continues to be mortified. I'm warning you again. All the Members you have decided to do so have been part of this investment, but only within the framework of the guarantee law. The National Assembly has not verified any other contract, only the law of guarantee. At the time, only document NIP 5 was on the table and no other document, which you now say is in the internal part of the documentation. Therefore, I would like to point out that this decision is, in a sense, a blank note to someone that can be negotiated to increase this investment. By doing so, you deny your decision or the guarantee law that was adopted in the National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Second Document did not accept only the law of guarantee. If someone claims to have accepted another document in the framework of the TES 6 investment, I would like to hear it. As an MP, I only decided on the guarantee. It's the only thing I can decide about in this amendment. I don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I hope we're done with the explanations of vote. Mr. Tanko, you've already explained your voice in this context. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. Apparently, the coalition is pretty confused about this amendment. You propose intermediate solutions, corrections, something that is no longer possible at this stage. You didn't want to listen before, so I suggest you take a 45-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u205	Now, before Mr Tanko has proposed a proposal that is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, which should be taken into account as such, I therefore set a 45-minute recess before the vote. We'll pick it up at 10:05.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u206	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Let's get back to work. I ask if the Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group wishes to present his position after the consultation. He does. Mr. Tank, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Our Group has reviewed the amendments that are before us for the vote and the final vote on the proposal for a decision. First of all, we must warn that the amendment tabled by the coalition is inappropriate, incomplete. On the first page, you have four groups of Members written and on behalf of all four of them one unreadable signature. Such an amendment should be rejected. Obviously, there is considerable confusion in this mandate in the National Assembly as regards technology, business and process. This amendment should not be divided at all, nor should we be able to decide on it. The other thing is the contents of the amendment. He's got more flaws. Firstly, it is inconsistent with the arrangements we currently have. The amendment imposes on the Court of Auditors something for which it is not legally competent and cannot perform this task. The other is what colleagues warned about the content in the debate – that this solution you are proposing does not close the financial structure, but opens it up and enables the anticipation of this project, so that they will obviously enjoy much more in Alstom's implementation of this project. There is also no commitment in this solution regarding the deadline for completion, and if you accept it, the investment will only extend into an indefinite future. This will systematically allow for further milking of the project, which will become enormously irritable. At the same time, with the basic construction, it would be difficult for me to withstand the economic price, and this will not be possible in the operation of this prospect. By doing this, you're just pushing a new estate investment into hell in the country. We don't understand why you're suggesting solutions that don't stand. We will oppose this and we will also oppose the adoption of the final decision after all the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u208	Thank you. Let me just explain this one more time. As regards the personality of the amendment, this dilemma has been removed, so the amendment has been properly tabled and we can decide on it. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia to point 1 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 24. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to point 2 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. Can we get to the vote? I note that there is no interest in anyone explaining his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. We are voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to point 2 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the third point of the updated proposal for a recommendation. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] We decide on the amendment to point three. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and are moving on to a full decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. Can we vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Given that you have accepted an amendment that does not have any basis in the legal order of Slovenia, that you have accepted an amendment that opens up an investment and extends the deadlines for this amendment to be contrary to everything that has been said in the National Assembly, I declare that the parliamentary group will not participate in the vote on the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u210	If I understand correctly, you're predicting obstruction for the parliamentary group at this point. Thank you. We are moving on to a full decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. 42 Members and Members are present. I'm guessing we're not concluding. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will repeat the vote. [[advertising from the hall]] It's okay. We'll vote next time. Mr. Tonin, would you like to explain your voice? Do you have a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u211	I, too, will announce obstruction on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u212	Thank you. Secondly, we vote on the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. 43 Members and Members are present. I note that there was no consensus in the second vote. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u213	I have to say this for the public. First of all, I am surprised that some members of the National Assembly may attend a meeting for which they have foretold to obstruct it, walk among the benches, and where they do not sit, place cards from other parliamentary groups. Please check to see if there's been any abuse. Secondly, I would like to ask the leadership of the National Assembly whether the parliamentary group, in the voting phase, can order obstruction in order not to be hit in the pocket. What happened? It has been done that the SDS Group, which convened this meeting, announces obstruction for the sake of politics. Other Members, who are not present in the National Assembly today and who have not apologized, will, because this moment is not final, with a financial supplement. Now she's gone, I think it's a little far away, and it's right that the public knows that some have obstructed the matter despite having called on her, that some Members are going between other benches where they don't sit, and they're putting her out of that card. Thirdly, I would like to know whether, when the New Slovenia Group is in the voting phase, the second time we vote, it can indicate that it will obstruct the meeting. I'd like to ask for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u214	Thank you. We're gonna check that out, and I'm doing a 10-minute break right now before the third vote. We'll continue the meeting at 22.27 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u215	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to the session. Please take your seats. This is the third time we've voted. Are we ready? We're voting. 41 Members and Members are present. Given that the assembly is not yet concluded after the third vote, I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, announce the continuation of the meeting at 23.10. At 11:10 p.m., we continue our work. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u216	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Let's get back to work. We are in the third vote. Procedurally, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u217	Your Honor! When I announced the obstruction of the vote, my colleague Han argued that our obstruction was not regular. I must say that our obstruction was entirely in accordance with the rules of procedure, and I see absolutely no problem here. We have obstructed the vote because we do not want to participate in the adoption of such decisions, because the conclusions you take will not stop the price rise of this project. That was the main reason we predicted obstruction. We will not allow anyone from New Slovenia to speak and suggest that he is a political party and that we are forecasting obstruction for political reasons or for tactical reasons. We've only announced it for substantive reasons. Since we do not allow ourselves to have these readings, I predict that we are withdrawing the obstruction and that we will vote with full responsibility against the decisions you have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-16-SDZ6-Izredna-41.ana.u218	Thank you. I propose that we check the functioning of the voting apparatus before the decision is taken. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good night.
