ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Srečko Meh by 3 p.m. Of course, I welcome all those present. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law on scholarship. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Dejan Levanič, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! For the past few years, we have all come together to note that the area of scholarship has not been systematically regulated in Slovenia, so the Ministry has not only prepared a proposal for a new law on scholarships but has used the bill prepared by students' representatives as a basis. The key objective and purpose is, in particular, a more comprehensive, transparent and more uniform grant arrangement. The proposed system is more flexible than the current system, allowing for the combination of several types of scholarships, thus allowing an individual to increase the final amount of scholarships and at the same time encourages an individual to take a more active approach to planning not only his or her education but also his or her career paths. So the law now completely regulates all scholarships, except for state administration staff scholarships, and these are state scholarships, Zois scholarships, scholarships for deficient professions, scholarships for Slovenians in place and around the world and Ad futura scholarships. The scholarships will be awarded for studies of first and second Bologna levels and no longer for the third Bologna level, except in the case of Ad futura scholarship, which are intended for international mobility for doctoral studies, so for the third Bologna level we have some opportunities within young researchers at the university, including individual schemes within the Ministry of Education. Furthermore, the granter will be entitled to receive a scholarship for a period of federal education, i.e. continuous education, until the completion of education. He will be eligible until the additional year of receiving the grant in the event of a repetition of the year due to parenthood, health reasons, exceptional family or social circumstances and higher strength. In addition, the granter will be eligible for an additional year of scholarship for extended student status, either at the first or second Bologna level. At the same time, fellows will be able to receive two types of scholarships, namely a staff scholarship which can be received at the same time as all scholarships, with the exception of a scholarship for deficient professions and vice versa, and an Ad futura scholarship for study visits which can be received at the same time as all scholarships. Regarding the grant procedure – also new. An electronic role is envisaged in the true meaning of the word, of course, provided that a central database in the field of education is established. As regards state scholarships, the new law mainly regulates scholarship supplements and conditions for further receipt, retirement, termination and way of recovery. The stay allowance is €80 per month, an allowance of €17 to €40 per month and an allowance for special needs scholarships, €50 per month. The novelty is also the re-implementation of a scholarship for underage students, otherwise in the half amount of the basic scholarship plus supplements. There are new scholarships for deficient professions amounting to EUR 100 per month, which are intended primarily for students or students who are educated in programmes defined as deficits. This scholarship is also without extras. Zois' scholarships are also new, as far as height is concerned. The monthly student scholarship amounted to 120 euros per month, previously 60 for home education, and 240 euros for foreign education. The student's monthly scholarship amounts to € 140 per month, before €90 for home education, and €280 per month abroad. The first condition for obtaining Zois' scholarship is a remarkable achievement and lowering the average rating to 4.7 for students and 8.5 for students. This was also in line with the student organisation and the proposal proposed by the electorate and the electorate. But it is true, especially because there were some anomalies and sometimes Zois’ scholarships were granted for purposes for which they were not intended. True, it brings together one thought of what to do in this case in the future. We know that together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with the Olympic Committee, we need criteria, criteria on which we can then decide how to regulate these scholarships in the future. This was also a commitment on the parental committee, where we talked about the need to fully pursue Zois' scholarships. Supplements to Zois: An allowance to stay and an allowance to scholarships with special needs, to stay €80 per month and with special needs €50 per month. Staff scholarships, a very important issue, also a higher share is co-financed within 70% in the case of deficit jobs and slightly more flexibility. It is only in the end that it is right to say that the law has been coordinated in three governments; it is said, thanks or thanks to Mr Svetlik, Mr Visiak, who eventually brought the matter together, and the current Minister Anja Kopač Dark, that we have reached a comprehensive system and insist that we also renew the Zois system as a whole, that we will be truly satisfied with what we have in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as the working body and the presentation of the Committee's report will be presented by President Andrej Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greeting also to the representatives of the Government, to the Secretary of State and to you, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law on scholarship, which was addressed by the Government in the National Assembly and adopted on a regular basis. Representatives of the proponents, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the State Council, the Students' Organisations of Slovenia, the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Youth Plus Union participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service. The Legal and Legislative Service also made a number of specific comments to the individual articles of the bill, which were largely taken into account by the amendments tabled by the Coalition's members, which were also adopted by the Committee. In its opinion presented by the representative of the State Council at the meeting of the Committee, the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons endorsed the draft law. During the course of business, qualified applicants tabled amendments, and most of them were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the applicant presented the draft law in the introductory explanation, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed in her presentation that they had given a written opinion, which was largely taken into account by the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition, and pointed out that this bill, as well as more and more legislative proposals, was directly changing the provisions of certain other laws, which is a poor practice in terms of legal certainty. The representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia said that they were actively involved in the drafting of the bill and that the law was more harmonised. In the introductory part of the discussion, the members and members of the Committee expressed their satisfaction that the proposal for a law had come to be examined and stressed the merits of its creation of all those involved in its preparation by the Ministry of Justice of the last three governments as well as representatives of young people, in particular the Student Organisation of Slovenia, for an corrective dialogue with representatives of the Ministry, which helped to ensure that the law was harmonised. They expressed their principled support for the law and stressed certain advantages such as the return of scholarships to underage students, the introduction of scholarships for deficient professions and the change in the award of Zois scholarships. Only concerns were expressed that grants were still not paid in one place and that a number of supplements were retained, which would make sense to settle them in a different way, and with regard to the entry into force of the law only since 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Comments were also made on the administrative costs of granting scholarships and on the lack of a thorough review of the deficit professions. In the context of the debate on the concept of Zois's scholarship, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the Government that the start of the school or study year 2014/2015 be prepared for a comprehensive overhaul of the Zois scholarship system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for presenting the Committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The law on scholarship, which we are deciding on, has prepared and proposed a previous government, in which Nova Slovenije has also participated. In our view, this is a good response and an urgent response to the injustices caused by the abolition of state scholarships for juvenile students. We assume that the then minister did not see what the consequences would be, but I am talking about many of the social pressures of families and unemployment, which is even greater and more sensitive in the countryside. The current situation in the country is such that families, without the help of their old parents in many cases, cannot support their future students in entering the desired secondary school programmes, especially from far more remote and transport-related parts of Slovenia. This is precisely why Nova Slovenija has already called on the Ministry in the past to start applying the law to the new school year, that is 1. 9. 2013 and not until 1. 1. In 2014, another school year will be lost for these families. In doing so, I would like to express my indignation that the current team of the Ministry of Labour has kept the bill in the drawer for three months, as well as the student and student organisations have agreed to a state of free running, which is unacceptable. In Novi Slovenija we are also interested in the area of deficient professions mentioned several times. What are the deficient professions, or who, and when will determine them? The draft law and the accompanying documents set out very generally for this area, and for future potential recipients of scholarships, the most important thing would be to keep them informed of which programmes will be further encouraged by the State. Grants are an important instrument for education and through state social policy scholarships. The scholarships promote an increase in the educational level of the population, strengthen development also outside urban centres and eliminate the structural imbalance in the labour market, which is reflected in higher employment. In New Slovenia we will support the establishment of such a scholarship policy based on the integrated regulation of all areas affecting the lives of students and students. We support a scholarship policy that will provide talented and demanding students with sufficient scholarships to be able to study regularly and temporarily and occasionally work will not constitute the basic source of livelihoods. Members of the New Slovenia will support the bill, but once again, we do not agree with the date of entry into force with 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We welcome the proposal for a law on scholarship, which, despite the challenges of today's time, is quite comprehensive in this important area. The law brings a number of innovations that are very important and necessary. On this occasion, I only mention the importance of a new form of scholarship, which is a scholarship for deficient professions, which undoubtedly fills an important gap and the possibility of receiving multiple scholarships at the same time. These are qualitative changes mainly in terms of medium- and long-term labour market regulation, which, in my view, are also quite well coordinated with stakeholders. Also from the point of view of the national communities, we actively participated in the drafting of the law, which started two years ago, continued during the period of the previous government, under the leadership of Mr Viszak, and is now ending. From a national point of view, we also note that the proposed legal text is appropriate, especially that the law also lays down conditions for the resolution of human resources policy, or better said problems of indigenous national communities, when, within the framework of the scholarships for deficient professions, it is possible to establish a scholarship policy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as well as by the Hungarian or Italian community as legally defined entities to cooperate in the identification of their deficit professions. We welcome this step because it actually means a concrete movement in the field of care for the personnel of indigenous national communities, which has also been defined in principle so far, but unfortunately, in practice it has not been or has not been poorly carried out. We therefore hope that this provision will have an effective impact in the long term on the improvement of the human resources scheme, including national communities or national mixed areas. It is also very important that, in the context of Ad futura, the new law clearly provides for support to the competent organisations of indigenous national communities with regard to the provision of support to the members of the said communities in the context of studies in Italy or Hungary. For a very correct, as well as a concrete, attitude towards the regulation of these partial nationalities, we particularly want to thank the Ministry's leadership and the expert team, with which we have, as I have said, been actively involved for a long time, as well as the competent committee of the National Assembly. As I have already pointed out in the introduction, because we agree with the content of the proposed law, we will support the law in the framework of the vote. We will also support the amendment, which improves or upgrades the content of the marriage text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Dragan Bosic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Hello government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! We do not have problems with this law in Positive Slovenia, nor do we have problems with who proposed it. In short, all the laws that are good for people, in this case for scholarships, we will support them. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the news that represents some benefit, which is important for us, namely, that scholarships to young students present some important novelty, not new ones, but new ones. Why? Because they are development-oriented, this means that these scholarships achieve significantly more than just financial assistance. In fact, we are also developing their personal responsibility in these underage students, which we are defending in Positive Slovenia already in our starting programme. All the amendments we tabled together with the coalition partners, I think there were 45, they're all accepted. Most of these are so-called editorial or nomotechnic. However, several amendments were quite substantive, namely the amendment to Article 19 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, relating to the conditions of performance, as well as Article 20, where we adopted the amendments of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, the changes in the status of scholarships during the year, are called scholarships with special needs. These could be highlighted in particular by all those who were in the fold. In the case of Article 21, according to Zois’s fellows, we have reached a decision, thanking the decision to draw up criteria for all stakeholders by 2014. In fact, it is an article that also speaks about the outstanding achievements of athletes, and in this case without the involvement of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport; in short, it is not possible. We expect this decision to be published or implemented and a new proposal for Zois' scholarships will be better than the current one, whose amendment we have not supported. Let me get this over with. We are still looking at the scholarship law, the scholarship policy as an investment, but yesterday I have already raised one concern on the questions sent, which is our common concern, the investment in young people, who can also repay this investment; I am saying "us", not to the United States, not to Australia, not to New Zealand, although the world is a global village, but we expect their help then at home. In Positive Slovenia we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, good afternoon! The law on scholarship, which is before us today, is, of course, one step forward in regulating the scholarship policy in Slovenia, so in our party, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no problem supporting this law as well. Finally, this is the law, as has already been said, the work of the three governments, and they have all contributed to the fact that the law is the same as it is today, but it must nevertheless be noted that there are some fundamental differences between these solutions. One of the most important, which introduces new scholarships, state scholarships for underage students, is the acquisition and achievement of the Government of colleague Andrei Visiak. In the previous government, the then minister, Dr. Svetlik, withdrew this supplement, or this type of grant, by means of the Law on the Allocation of Public Resources, and suspended scholarships for underage students. This is the solution we most welcome. The second solution, which we very much welcome, is the granting of scholarships for deficient professions. This will regulate the labour market and stimulate students to choose to study in areas where there are greater opportunities for employment later. Finally, the law also brings a number of improvements in other areas, such as the granting of scholarships for studies abroad, addressing some of the problems that have been shown in the implementation of the scholarship policy so far. We thus assess that the advantages of marriage are many, but I would also like to draw attention to some things that will need to be changed in the future. By no means will the law bring about one-stop-shop policy arrangements, state-source scholarships will still be awarded from concessional sources to various ministries within the same budget and far from the Grant Act will not eliminate all the shortcomings of Zois's scholarship. Three governments so far, five years and more, have promised to regulate Zois' scholarship system in a way that will be decisive not only in gaining Zois' scholarships but also in stimulating talent. This is not in the hands of the Ministry of Labour, which is native to this law, but in the hands of the Ministry of Education, which has so far not contributed to its role in regulating this area, so my doubt is that it will do so in a very short time, in a year as promised, but very large. The thing that bothers me the most, and we wanted to change it on the board, is that, regardless of what they achieve, they can be state champions, they can be European champions, or even world champions, and at the same time they have the same fives at school or the top tens at school, they won't be able to get Zois's scholarships through the new system. Why? Because the government has decided that outstanding achievements in the field of sport do not apply. And this is a significant shift between the current scholarship system and the future scholarship system, because in the current system it was a condition for gaining Zois' scholarship or a high rating or an extraordinary achievement, and now the condition is cumulative, that is to say, a high score and a high achievement. In short, on the basis of these solutions, Zois' scholarships will probably be much smaller, which is partly right, but it is not right for athletes to be completely excluded from this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you. Hello again! In these turbulent times, the proposal for a law on scholarship before us is actually the result of the work of the three governments and, particularly important, is the result of civil society participation in the drafting of the law. The content of the law is therefore the fruit of the agreement between the government and the civil social sphere, and key solutions have been addressed in the social dialogue, which is why the Social Democrats are particularly supportive of this law. The key achievement of the law is that it fully regulates the area of scholarship, which means that all scholarships are covered in one place. This makes it possible to be transparent and more transparent over the types and conditions of the grant. The law regulates 5 different types of scholarships, among which we particularly want to highlight scholarships for deficient professions aimed at encouraging young people to decide on education for those professions lacking in the labour market. In addition to the above, the law also regulates co-financing of staff scholarships and increasing the share of co-financing to encourage employers to decide to grant staff scholarships while at the same time helping young people in school to obtain a scholarship and to ensure easier entry into the labour market, which is particularly important today and in these circumstances. The proposed law also regulates the time of receipt of scholarships, the possibility of receiving two scholarships at the same time, the possibility of an electronic role and other important innovations in the area of peace and extension and the return of scholarships. It is particularly important for us to point out a slightly changed system of Zois' scholarships, where the first condition for obtaining a scholarship is exceptional achievement. Even though this proposal has been fully summarised by the bill of election and electorate, it is still conceptually incomplete in our view. Since the content of Zois' scholarships extends to various ministries, from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as well as to the field of the Ministry of Culture, we particularly support the Committee's decision on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which proposes that the Government prepare a comprehensive overhaul of the Zois Scholarships system by the beginning of the school year 2014/2015 at the latest. In the parliamentary group, we also particularly support both coalition parties' amendments, because of the unpredictability and possible changes in living conditions, we would like to highlight in particular the amendment which will allow for the acquisition of an allowance for special needs during the school and study years, and not only at the beginning of the year as it has been in force so far. As we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u16	President, a nice welcome to the Secretary of State with the team, a nice welcome to the Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Citizens' List, we will support the proposal for a law on scholarship, as it is the result of cooperation and compromises between all stakeholders, and in particular the most pleased fact that it is also pleased with the representatives of students and students who have also prepared the basis of the draft law on scholarships. I would also like to say that we support the decision of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in the National Gazette, which proposes to the Government that by the beginning of the 2014/2015 school year or study year a comprehensive overhaul of the Zois Scholarship system be prepared. The proposal to the extent possible eliminates the inconsistencies of the current arrangements and introduces a transparent system of scholarships and fully regulates most types of scholarships. He's bringing some important news, and I'd like to list just a few. We've heard some of them today. So: an increase in the number of scholarships and, as a result, the expected reduction in the number of students' and students' student work and, as a result, their maximum focus on the primary goal is learning; the possibility of receiving multiple scholarships at the same time; the regulation of the possibility of granting allowances to scholarships in the form of an allowance for stay, success and scholarships with special needs; the definition of the conditions of retirement is more precise; and the right to a state scholarship is also re-defined for young students. Otherwise, the proposal for a new law abolishes scholarships for the third Bologna level, except for Ad futura, but there is still the possibility of co-financing by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for the third Bologna level. We would also like to highlight in our parliamentary group the introduction of scholarships for deficient professions. Their aim is to encourage students or students to enroll in those professions where market demand is high and adequately skilled workers are lacking. In general, rules in the field of deficit occupations provide a great opportunity for breakthroughs to reduce the number of unemployed. Of course, we are aware that the introduction of state scholarships for deficient professions is not the only necessary measure. The economy should also contribute to its contribution through human resources scholarships, as well as through appropriate entry policies by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Otherwise, a scholarship for students and students is not only a kind of allowance or social contribution, but it is a scholarship to encourage and help with quality learning on the way to self-employment and life. The scholarship is part of the country's investment in adequately qualified staff, which is intended to represent an important step towards the recovery of the economy and the country itself. Finally, let me conclude by thinking that students and students are not shares whose value would swing upwards or downwards by inserting them, but in this case it is an investment that continues to increase, both materially and spiritually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. We have been waiting for several years for the amendment to the Law on Scholarship, and he has also been preparing and coordinating for several years, as has been said several times in several governments. It is also important that he has coordinated and coordinated with the representatives of students and students. I, among others, drew attention to the need for the adoption of the Law on Scholarships and the regulation of student work when it came to the adoption of new social legislation in 2010, when the new legislation put social rights literally on the table. It is well known that at that time, underage students lost their scholarship, but did not receive an equivalent allowance in child support as promised by the then minister. This is why rural students and full - time high school students and their families have already experienced the negative effects of changes. I would therefore like to stress, on behalf of the SLS Group, that we welcome the reintroduction of scholarships for underage students in the amendment of the law. The introduction of a new type of scholarship is also positive in the law, these are scholarships for deficient professions, and the possibility of receiving multiple scholarships at the same time. We certainly support a greater share of co-financing of staff scholarships up to 17% of the level of the staff grant for those areas that will be specifically defined in the grant policy due to the reduction of the impact of structural non-compliance on the labour market. We hope, therefore, that the human resources grant policy will indeed be developed in dialogue with the social partners and other stakeholders. In the SLS Group, we also express the expectation that the Government will take into account the special decision of the parent committee and will prepare a reform of the Zois scholarship system as soon as possible. It seems problematic to us that through the adoption of the law they will be removed from the system students who have outstanding achievements in sport. With our amendments to take into account sports achievements, a constructive debate took place on the Committee, which showed the need to take into account outstanding sports achievements on the one hand, of course with excellent academic success. We reiterate that the elimination of athletes is an unacceptable discrimination against young people engaged in sports. Therefore, we expect that, with the promised renovation of the Zois scholarship system, the Government will develop criteria that will be more equitable for all students and students. Representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth will also have to participate in these criteria. As we say, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on scholarship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to you all! The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has yet to come under the auspices of the previous government to prepare a new law on scholarships, as this area has not been systematically well regulated. For the basis, a version of the application for the Act on Scholarship was used, which was submitted to the National Assembly by over 5,000 electorates and electorates and is a law drawn up by the Student Organisation. This bill summarises their solutions and also takes into account the proposals made during the one-month public hearing. The Ministry has also coordinated its proposals with the Student Organisation. The law has been duly amended on the home labour body and before us is a proposal that deserves all the support. We are pleased that this bill enjoys the support of both the coalition and the opposition. The fact is that in Slovenia we need a systematic approach to the scholarship policy. It must be managed in a comprehensive and transparent manner if we want the financial resources allocated to the population to be used for education to serve its purpose. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the scholarship policy must be designed to facilitate the material problems that today plague a large proportion of Slovenian families with educated youth, to connect the school system with the human needs of the economy and to reward and stimulate the talent, dignity and commitment of our young potentials. Since this proposal, following the assessment of the DeSUS Group, follows all of this, we will be pleased to support it in our Group of Members. In doing so, the DeSUS Group particularly welcomes the law in the part where it returns state scholarships to underage students when it allows the admission of multiple types of scholarships at the same time, as it can only be said that they are equal students and students from different social backgrounds. However, one of the most important things is also the new type of scholarship that promotes education for deficient professions. The latter, together with the new arrangement of staff scholarships, represents a major and necessary step towards linking education with the economic system. In the parliamentary group, I will gladly support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 17 June 2013. I am thus putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. I give my word to Mr. Jacob the President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We will support this amendment, which has also arisen on the basis of the debate on the committee itself, and it seems to us that it is properly written and we will support it. This is section 20, which deals with grants for scholarships with special needs. So, if, on the one hand, someone is deprived of their right to something because of circumstances, it is good to add it again if changes occur during the study year itself. When we proposed amendments before the committee, we also added the need for a supplement for those with long-term illness or long-term consequences of injury. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been adopted at the committee meeting itself, but I must say that I regret that these categories, which sometimes have major problems, have not been taken into account. Well, anyway, this amendment to Article 20 will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs. Romani Tomc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. We support this amendment, too. It seems to me that those who have special needs will also receive an appropriate allowance for this, from the day on which the circumstances arise that they are entitled to this allowance. That is why we do not have problems, and we will be happy to support such a solution, which we believe is good for those who are students or students with special needs. Here we cannot pass that we have different categories of students, different categories of students and between them, as I have already said in my view of the Group of Members, even such a category of students and students as they are called athletes. If we have provided these students and students with special needs with an extra €50 for their special needs, in addition to the basic scholarship, we have completely excluded athletes from the possibility of even getting a scholarship. And I'm gonna do it again. This, of course, is a bad solution that we do not support. We have already tried to convince the government and the coalition that it is likely that this solution, as we will have with the implementation of this law, is due to the fact that everyone does not understand how the scholarship system is going to be implemented and how the scholarship system will be followed by a new one. In fact, the government has constantly convinced us that today's athletes are privileged because most of the scholarships they receive on the basis of extraordinary achievements are awarded to athletes, which is true. This is because today's Zois scholarship system takes place in such a way as to enable a student or student to run for scholarship either on the basis of evaluations or on the basis of achievements or as the best in the so-called top five generations. This is what he says when he takes the role, he decides on which criterion he will run for office. He can decide to run for the highest achievement criteria, which means that the ratings are completely irrelevant; he can have twins, he can have a threesome, he can have sixes, he can have weeks. Now, after the new, respected, there are many athletes in Positive Slovenia, it will be very different. Now the athlete, the world champion, if he wanted to, would have to have our proposal, get a scholarship, of course, to have fives or tens at the same time. The way we're bringing him in, we kind of threw him out of the game. There is no way that he will never be able to meet both conditions, as the area of sport is excluded from an area called that you can achieve extraordinary achievements there. I think we've done a lot of wrong for athletes. Slovenia is a nation of athletes, good, excellent, excellent athletes.. la Tina Maze,......................................................................................................................................... They have taken the name of Slovenia to the world, but I think with the possibility, not with the automatic allocation, but with the possibility that they could even get the Zois scholarship, they would allow them to make their way a little easier. Sportsmen, who are able to train seven times a week, to be world champions because they have been trained hard and have been perfect in school – tell me one reason why these young people do not deserve a scholarship! And, of course, these promises made by the Government that in a year or two we will change the Zois scholarship system, so that sports will also be able to receive scholarships – but they can also be obtained from the Olympic Committee and elsewhere. You know, we've been listening to this story for the past seven years, but the Ministry of Education has not been able to, in the last seven years, to set up a system to encourage talented people. We don't have it, this system! But now we'll have him miraculously in one year. Such respectable colleagues and colleagues, those who have opposed this, I have great doubts that something will happen next year in this area. Of course, we're going to lose a generation of young, good, capable, talented people who are cut off from the possibility of getting a Zois scholarship and that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Article 20 and the amendment of the coalition to this Article are discussed. Anybody else want to discuss this? Opening login option. Thank you. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This debate, which went in the direction of what someone did and did not do, is, of course, empty because of this, because if we wanted to do it, we could have done it by then. But who broke the Act on the grant of the Pahor government, but also knows. But about Zois' scholarships. It seems right that Zois' scholarships in a special law are specially arranged, because it is not only talent or availability to achieve excellence in sport, there are other talents, such as talent in artistic professions, but also for top artists, they must be involved in regular schooling, in graduation and something else. I think that every talent should be taken into account, that even top-notch artists train or practice, it would be said. I remember today the European, if not the world-renowned cellist, who has already achieved excellent results as a primary school, but was a fifth- or sixth-grade primary school pixie. Thus, the talents among the people are widely distributed, and it seems to me that the Zois Scholarships Act should take account of all the differences that they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mrs. Romana Tomc applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. This is now an ideal opportunity to say and prove how this solution is likely to have occurred, because colleagues and colleagues do not understand this law. Mrs Potrata, who has just discussed, said that it would be right to consider all outstanding achievements in all areas to be exceptional. And I do, Your Honor, Mrs. Potrat! Article 24 lists what are outstanding achievements and these are the highest places of knowledge or research in state competitions, gold and silver awards and knowledge and research in state competitions, then awarded scientific research, development or artistic work, publication of scientific research tasks, art or other work. So, respectable fellow Potter, all of what you've listed is in marriage, and all of these people, who are top artists, have the opportunity to get Zois' scholarship. My focus and my fear and, apparently, the fact is that everyone, except athletes, will be able to get this scholarship. But we turned off the athletes. Once again, exactly what you discussed was discussed by your colleagues on the committee, and I think that the vast majority of people in Slovenia do not understand what this is about. Because he doesn't understand, we've done terrible wrong to athletes, top athletes, high school students, and that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you. Unfortunately, the replica on the replica will not be possible, but then it is possible to log in below, so I invite you to log in. And I give the word to Mrs. Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, thank you very much. Of course, I too will be discussing an amendment that has already been rejected on the parental committee. I was encouraged by my colleague, Mrs. Tomc. Unlike Mrs Tomchev, I believe that top athletes will receive this Zois scholarship. Why? Because I know quite a few athletes, even when I was training, there were those who were very successful at school and also had a very good result, say in mathematics or physics, and were still very successful athletes. There are such athletes, good, successful, successful also in sports that train perhaps 6 times, 7 times a week, as you said, they train hard, here I agree, but also perfect excellence and also very successful at some extraordinary achievement, as far as mathematics, physics and so on. On this occasion, I would really like to appeal to the Government that, as has been said and decided, this area will be settled as soon as possible for athletes, because I think a number of other things need to be settled. I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you. Well, there is also a replica of Mrs Romana Tomc for this debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. It seems — and sad — that only I in the National Assembly stand up for top athletes. Now, as a replica, I also answer to you because you obviously have a certain degree of misunderstanding. Not only are they good at math, but they are good at physics — no! They must either be state champions in physics or they must have some terrible confessions. I believe, dear colleague of Bikareva, that there is one such, I believe there is one such, but I think that in the end we will be able to those who are world champions in some sport, state champions in the mathematical competition and at the same time have dozens in the course Forgive me, I think – and then in a few years we can go look at specific data – that we will count on the fingers of one hand. [[...]] And once again, I am very surprised that you, as a former athlete and your future colleagues, do not support this direction in order to have, not any privileges, but just the same option as all their other colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you. Given the interest expressed in the replica, I would also like to reiterate that it will be possible to apply further to the debate. And I give the word "magic." Barbara Squire Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. Well, we've been talking for a while now about the 21st article or those articles that are closed at today's session, but it's also right, if you're allowing a debate in a broader context, that's how you decided. But it's not right for the public to be misled. Sportsmen are not excluded from this law, athletes have the right and the opportunity to get a scholarship. What needs to be stressed is that this has also been pointed out on the working body of the mother, that, at the same time as the opposition's amendment was rejected, the coalition has requested a decision and this conclusion is that the Ministry of Justice will draw up an appropriate law covering all of Zois' scholarships, including all exceptions or extraordinary achievements. Sports will be involved or included in this law. At this point, I also call on the Secretary of State to assist with further explanations as to why the opposition's ministry was not in line with or could not be voted on. Because, as has been given by the departmental ministry in explanation on the home labour body, the amendment would, if adopted, have reached into the concept of the law itself. Because, to the extent that we were then explained, different categories of athletes could not be included in this law, which we are considering today. I also ask the Secretary of State to be included in the debate and, with further explanations, to explain why the opposition's ministry was not acceptable. As stated today's law, which I understand will be passed in the majority or with the support of all the parties in Parliament, does not exclude athletes from the possibility of obtaining a scholarship. Not only are we talking about Zois' scholarships, we are talking about all the scholarships that exist in the Republic of Slovenia. If you allow me, colleague Tomcheva, because you are always gesticulating something, article 21 of the law says: "Zoise's scholarship is intended for students and students as an incentive," says only Zois' scholarship, "to achieve extraordinary achievements and thus to create added value in the field of knowledge, research, development and art." True, an amendment that included two words "in sports" was not adopted. And since this amendment was not adopted, I stress once again, we have requested a decision that was voted and confirmed that the Government will be preparing by 2015 a system law that will include all of Zois' scholarships, including scholarships for achievements in the field of sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. I also give this debate the opportunity to replicate Mrs Romani Tomc, and then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State first. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u36	I have to replicate because the obvious fact is that I know this system very well, not just the Zois scholarship system, but the scholarships at all. Dear colleague Žgeiner Tavš, you have been deceiving. You have deceived and, in fact, answered yourself in the end, in which areas Zois's scholarship can be obtained. Why, then, did you say that Zois’s fellow students or that athletes were not excluded from the prospect of receiving a scholarship — because of your deception? Of course they can get a state scholarship and a human resources scholarship. I, a respected colleague, spoke solely of Zois' scholarships and only in the Zois scholarship area are athletes excluded and that's not fair! Yes! It was a promise that in two years everything would be different. I told you, because I've been monitoring this area for the past seven years, it's a promise that everything will be different tomorrow, and it won't and it won't be, certainly not so fast. And why wasn't the amendment adopted? Why wasn't he accepted? Because the reason is exactly the same as it is here in this Chamber: it is a misunderstanding. Of course, the criteria and criteria in the field of sport can be defined. Now, they exist right now.Oh, my God! They already exist, because athletes in the current system get these scholarships according to the current system. The criteria and criteria are made, perhaps a little bit must be reshaped or deleted or anything, but it all exists. So don't say we can't do this, but we can say we won't do it because we don't want to do it. But the biggest disappointment was that we are now comparing the old and the new system, because I have already explained many times, and once again I explain, it is no longer "or, or," but it is "and". Because it is "in", more conditions will have to be met at the same time. This will mean significantly less Zois scholarships – I hope we are all aware of that. This will mean: no Zois scholarship for athletes. I hope now that we all understand what Zois' scholarship is about and what the conditions are. And once again, it's about getting students and students of Zois' scholarship from all fields, science, art, culture, but not from sports. That's right, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you. I give the floor to Dragan Bosic. However, it is a fitting warning that Article 21 speaks of Zois’ scholarships. While the debate has gone on and I also propose that you try to give the answers you wanted to give in this debate in the next debate. But I would like to take this into account in further discussions. Mr Bosic, you have a chance to discuss this. I apologize for giving the floor first to the Secretary of State, Mr Dejan Levanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone. I really have no problem getting involved in the debate, although we are not really in the content of Article 20 of this Law, such as the content of this amendment. But, honourable Members, I think that we all agree here that all those who achieve extraordinary achievements in the field of sport also need to look at what can be done in this segment. But to say that the current government has made up its mind and has not done so, and therefore has wronged all athletes, in fact it does not. The law before us, with the exception of certain nomotechnic amendments adopted by the committee, was adopted. 3rd this year; this means in the time of the previous government. And such a solution for Zois' fellows has been introduced into this law without change. The amendment adopted by the committee on the basis of the debate that it is necessary to ensure that all athletes achieving outstanding achievements, the scholarship, are, in the end, as if they were changing on their noses what was agreed by your government, the Students' Organisations of Slovenia, the students and all those who participated in the drafting of this law. No one in my opinion really has any problem identifying athletes, those who achieve extraordinary achievements. We do, however, probably know this as the former director of the fund, criteria, criteria, and you have also pointed out that we are coming to Zois' scholarships in the event of exceptional sports. However, different categories and criteria and disciplines differ, and the current Zois scholarship system caused injustice or at least different treatment for those receiving Zois' scholarship. As an example, let me just tell you that in 2011/2012, in the group of outstanding achievements achieved in the 8th and 9th classes of primary school, the student, therefore, achieved the gold of Vega's recognition, the gold of Preglav's recognition, the gold of Cankar's recognition, and also won the first place in the international mathematical Olympics. All of it brought him 70 points. Because there was a lot in that category that fulfilled outstanding achievements in the field of sport under the current law – we say that individual competitions are much more frequent in the sport field, that some disciplines have very competitors and can quickly be achieved first, second or third place. But if you score first, second or third, that automatically means 10 points. Since there were so many people in this category, the limit for gaining Zois' scholarship soared that between this 70-point student and a swimmer's athlete or one who scored 1250 points, there was a huge difference. After all, if your amendment were accepted, we would continue to support the unfair system that we have today, and that is that the individual who scored 70 points in the four outstanding competitions lost Zois' scholarship. In my opinion, this is a remarkable achievement. It is our assurance, so I think this mutual accounting – I don't know, I wouldn't be making some grades, but it did, and we all had this opportunity together, yes. Your government, too, when it was preparing changes to this law. Even then, criteria and criteria could be made, and this could all be covered by a law that could be before us today, and amendments to certain laws are not responsible. Mr Vizjak, who has prepared and coordinated this law, has also requested that the labour market regulation law, or the labour relationship law, and the pension law do not break the whole story covered by the individual amendments. That's what we took into account. The covenant! But here I agree with you completely. If we reach – and the Olympic Committees and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport have this information – if we reach some consensus on criteria, disciplines and what we will reward through Zois scholarships, then we can get to the complete Zois scholarship in Slovenia quite quickly. My commitment is to do everything in my power to achieve this and to support athletes where they are achieving remarkable results. Today, scholarships through the Olympic Committee for Extraordinary Achievements in Sports Areas already exist. Here's a list of at least some scholarships that are ahead of me. In addition, we have information that sports scholarships are being specifically awarded, and some funding is being allocated through local communities to those who are achieving outstanding results. So I don't think it's fair to say today that because this amendment has not been supported, that all those who have not supported it are against those who are achieving extraordinary achievements in the field of sport, because the story is not as simple. The proposal, which was coordinated, is before us today. The system in force is unfair and has released those who had outstanding achievements in the field of knowledge from the Zois Scholarship System. Together, however, we can accept the commitment to recognize a remarkable sport, because sport is important after all, it is one of the rare things in Slovenia that binds this nation together, and to support it in the context, if we choose to do so, of Zois's scholarships. But before that, we must make clear the criteria, the criteria, the discipline that we will not do injustices within these disciplines, because today, too, there are injustices within athletes or different disciplines. Where there are few competitors and where more competitions or competitions are more frequent, it is possible to reach more points than where they are not. In addition, competitions from knowledge may be possible once a year, and sports competitions are much more. So, the existing legislation is causing us problems in granting Zois scholarships, especially in the context that they are not intended for what we have decided in the country to grant Zois scholarships. So I hope that, in the end, when we leave this hall, we will step together and find a solution to how to implement within Zois' scholarships those who have achieved something or have achieved exceptionally in the sports field. I do not have a personal problem with this, but I do have a problem with us getting back together with who is responsible for such a solution when we all know that this matter was coordinated and eventually came to the National Assembly as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you, too. The replica has Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u40	Yes, I repeat, and for one reason in particular, because the Secretary of State again spoke about how the system we now have is unfair and how it favors athletes. True, but it won't be that way in the future, because it's a cumulative condition and a respected secretary of state, so be fair to say it. The Zois scholarship system will be very different once this law enters into force as it is today. Very different. Many who receive Zois’ scholarships today do not yet realize that. Since the law will be different, of course it is also possible to involve athletes and not talk about any government that has put this out or in or in any way, but about an amendment that would solve this situation. And I'm sorry to hear that the amendment to the law is irresponsible, and then I don't know why we have any more amendments in the National Assembly! In short, this is a procedure that is perfectly legitimate and legal. Again, why wasn't the SOS aware? I don't think they were aware of this problem. Nobody wanted anything bad! They just didn't recognize him, they missed the danger, and then they left a solution like that. And let me draw your attention, but you did not mention this, Mr Secretary of State, young people's representatives on the committee were divided on this issue, so that one of them supported one solution, and the other then joined in a more squeezing mouth with another solution. One more thing, terribly unfair and unacceptable is that you say and that the reason why athletes will not be able to get Zois' scholarship is because the state is unable to make criteria and criteria. I tell you, the criteria and criteria exist, they need to be slightly renovated, very little, but maybe we won't give 1st, 2nd and 3rd places 10 points, but 5, and the matter will change completely. But because you can't make criteria and criteria, then we can't throw a few generations of athletes out of this system! Does that seem fair to you?Oh, my God! It's unacceptable! Too bad we missed this solution, it is no longer possible to fix it because the article is closed, but I opened this debate because we are aware that the problem is also being realized by colleagues who supported it, that it is a problem and that, because they now have the current government, they will be putting pressure on it, not that it changes in two years, but in half a year. And today this system can begin to repair in a work where it's bad. Dear colleagues, you have a chance and be active.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you. I don't think today is the right day. The right day was the last time on the board where we pointed out this future option of saving sports and Zois' scholarships. Actually, even these seven years, or two years, what's been going on, I'm not really interested, nor have I been following these activities at this time. If things were going in the right direction, then I wouldn't be sitting here today or standing here, but now I'm standing because I don't even care too much about politics that works. In fact, there are two things we have connected here: one is top athletes and one is that path that someone has to cross to become supreme. That's what I warned the board last time. They are supreme – O.K., they are also media important, you can take pictures with them, you grow ratings, you talk about them, you name them. I would not mention Slovenian top names – here are some of them sitting – as an example, example or not including the concept of scholarship. To make it easier to understand, you probably know our neighbor Hermann Maier, probably not personally. A wonderful man, a builder, to the world's glory and success did not come with some scholarship policy of our neighbors, through whom we imitate ourselves, but came by getting skis for slalom, rowing, skiing training that he could go on glaciers. If the system were to lead him to what it is, then you wouldn't be where it is. For tops we have the solution offered by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, no tops and prospects are without prize, but I am interested in another thing; I am interested in this path, which can be reached by a top sportsman. Here, however we now speak, we turn, here without the Ministry of Education – and by chance there is still sport on behalf – there is no going on. According to the criteria in which the athletes you refer to will be involved, it will not work. Until they set you up with some rankings, some criteria, we can do as much as we want in the National Assembly, but one of the top athletes will challenge the prize of the second top athlete to whom it is unjustifiable. It is said that the only solution that we advocate in Positive Slovenia, which is itself someone who has worked with top athletes for many years – and will probably work – is the one that we talked about at the starting point. So, together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with athletes, with the Olympic Committee, prepare a strategy for Zois scholarships, because these are just some scholarships of excellence, not later than 2014/ 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Given the interest expressed earlier in the debate, I am opening up the possibility of applying for a debate. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you. I'm not a member of the committee, and I couldn't discuss it, and none of the readings go to my head. But when we talk about cumulativeity, it would be good for those who are considered to know the subject, all the tanks to say that Zois' scholarship is justified in its starting point on the achievements of knowledge. Then the second one is added. When I talked about artists, he's a great artist, but under the condition of success. There's also an estimate. For athletes, it must be the same and I do not believe that these are unattainable requirements for athletes, but no one assumes that an athlete must be a golden state champion in physics. It doesn't require that, and it's not true. It is true, Mr State Secretary, that the competitions in knowledge are only once a year, this is for Preglovo, this is for Vega, this is for Cankarjevo and I could list them for you. And since we've been talking about scholarships in the National Assembly, we've been having trouble with Zois' scholarships because some would like Zois' scholarship to include a moment of social adjustment. So they objected that Zois’ scholarships would be excellent in knowledge and other abilities because they did not need to be given this. But it is really all that should be talked about, and it is now a rush to ring the bell, that for the top achievements of athletes it is necessary to have the criteria that will endure. I support the fact that the system of scoring, obtaining points for Zois' scholarship, must be regulated so that it does not create different conditions at the beginning. Sports can also be collective, they can be of different numbers, and I know a range of athletes who themselves have different views on this or determine how excellence in different sports can be achieved. I will support the amendment of the coalition that has been tabled to this article. However, Mr President, I agree with you, but I have not opened the subject of Zois' scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you, too. The next one has the word, Mr Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I agree with you, Mr President, but I was the only one who discussed the amendment to Article 20 in this debate. Indeed, Zois' scholarships, which are now under discussion, have been since the 21st article forward, but we are only the ones who tabled this amendment and opened the debate on the committee. Of course, we already have such an idea that if, for example – let me be forgiven by my colleagues from SDS – SDS submits an amendment, then this is the SDS amendment, if it is SLS, but this is the amendment of the opposition, as you said, colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Of course, I don't agree with that. Let me put it this way, in the opinion of the Group of Members earlier, I made it clear that the problem of athletes and Zois' scholarships, or those who achieve excellent results in sport, and – as the colleague said "and" not "or" – special or excellent learning success, they are entitled to Zois' scholarships. We added the amendment to sport, given what is already covered in the basic text, not to repeat. So, I do not agree with the fact that when we add this area to it, we would break the concept of law. After all, there are criteria and criteria to be submitted under the law. In the opinion of the Group of Members, I stressed the need for the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport - and Youth to be involved, as well as for the Ministry of Culture, perhaps others. Colleague Alenka Bikar said earlier that athletes have the chance to get to Zois' scholarships. Yes, even today, but not with the new law anymore — that is the problem. With this law that we will adopt today — and I will vote for it myself — they will not have it. But when you come up with an appropriate proposal on the basis of the Committee's decision, from then on – when will this be, I don't know – and from then on it is possible. I agree with my colleague, Bosic, who said that it was the right time for this debate, because the debate was on the committee, the debate was lively, I think it lasted at least one hour or two, but the decision was the same as it was and the time for the decision was on the committee, of course that is the problem. But now I have also violated, I am aware, since the beginning, so in my first report, I did not mention the first discussion of Zois's scholarships at all, but I have discussed the amendment to the 20th article, which, as I said, I support. Nevertheless, I have previously expressed a slight disagreement that our amendment to Article 20, in order to cover some categories of patients and others, has not been included in this amendment. But so it is, such a decision was the committee and I will support the amendment to Article 20 and I will end up supporting the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Mrs. Alenka Bikar has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I have to replicate. Mr President, you do not understand me or you think that the people involved in sports are unable to achieve the highest results in the field of knowledge. I said that it is not true that some athletes who are successful in the field – let me say to the end – who are successful at school and achieve special results in knowledge, I don't know, in mathematics, in physics, and are also top athletes. There are. And you believe that it doesn't exist, exist, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you, too. I also give the floor to Mr Dragan Bosic as a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u50	Yes, I'd like to replicate my colleague the Presec. In fact, I did not say earlier that the time for discussion was on the committee, I said that the problem on the committee would begin to be resolved. So much so that I don't object to this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you. Let's move forward with the debate, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much, thank you very much again. When I listen to today's debate on all these Zois scholarships, I agree with my colleague Tomcheva, she fought very hard for these Zois scholarships on the board and here again my criticism of the Student Organisation and the Diagnostic Organization. I've already said in my position that you were under-aggressive. By allowing the marriage to take effect at 1 C.E. 1. 2014 and not 1 September 2013; I do not know how they thought because they represent students and students. Also, by overlooking how Zois' scholarships will be distributed, I think that all the criticism in this place is mainly from the Student Organisation and the Diagnostic Organization.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you. The next debater is Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! The fact is that we could adopt an amendment that would give a lot of support to young top athletes who have to have a high score on the one hand both in school and on the other hand a top score in their sports field, but you did not do that and a peak. Now you postpone it until 2015, then we'll probably hear about it again later. In short, you are putting forward a matter on which we could probably support unanimously on the committee, but now you are referring to how this is not possible with the amendment, how the amendment breaks the system, even how it solves matters on the nose of the Secretary of State, you have previously been a Member and probably know the business provisions of the National Assembly, how amendments can be proposed and when they can be proposed, you cannot submit an amendment before the law comes to the National Assembly or when amendments can be put to work. [[...]] I have a feeling that some members of the board have not even read the law, I must say that I have read both laws, both the law by the Student Organization and then the government law. In my previous mandate, I was also a member of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and I must say that I had already warned the former Minister, with individual colleagues within the parliamentary group, that the status of top athletes should also be regulated, he promised that this would be resolved. Of course, there was a change of government, but apparently officials remained the same and forgot about the individual points they were supposed to save and probably threw into the basket instead of dealing with it. I must say that I am particularly surprised by the Positive Slovenia that they are rejecting the debate on top athletes and top students with such dissatisfaction. I agree that there are top students or students who are also top athletes, but Zois' scholarships will not be available now. That's the main problem now. There are several top athletes among us, especially in the Positive Slovenia Group. At least I expected some support from them for my successors. As for the implementation of one of the colleagues in the past regarding Hermann Maier; you know, I also know the economists who started their trade at home in their garage, then became successful economists, and today because they have ten to 20 employees or more, we consider them tycoons. So your readings, I'll say, were brought in a little by the heel. How is the classification incomplete or how? See, in my local community, I am the chairman of the Sports Committee and I always run when we meet with the Sports Rules every year, whether individual athletes are better or team sports are better. Then you meet one who deals with athletics, someone who deals with some martial arts – there are some discrimination among them, but I think it's the Ministry's job, so we have ministries to make some sort of order in the country. But apparently in this area, with regard to Zois' scholarships, the state is closing its eyes. I think that there was little good will on the committee to show for young attractive athletes, not only fancy, top athletes and also top-notch students, but unfortunately you have not done so and now you are in a lot of debates about this. I must say that how some get scholarships – they will not get them. Maybe some kind of congregation. I agree, too, that the congregations have their own rules so that they can grant a scholarship to someone. I believe that all those who are in the Municipality of Ljubljana will confirm all of this in the city council, but for the others it is a problem. So, unfortunately, a big mistake has been made, it wouldn't be any distance from any of the collapse of the concept. You missed a mistake. You said you'd save after 2015 – but we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted all the applications for discussion. Before I ask if anyone else wants to discuss this further, I would like to remind you once again that we are at Article 20, and I stress very much, this article discusses the supplement for fellows with special needs. If you wish to discuss this Article and the amendment to Article 20, you will be able to discuss it. If you are going to discuss Zois' scholarships, I would like to point out that the 21st article and everyone who talks about it is closed, cannot be amended and the debate will not lead to a solution. Therefore, I ask you to focus on Article 20 and the amendment to Article 20. But I would like to invite you to the opportunity to apply for a debate because interest has been expressed. Mrs. Leila Hercegovac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Well-known representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I, of course, support the amendment to Article 20 of the Proposal for a law on scholarships, as do all colleagues and colleagues from all parties. I am glad that we are united here, and that we have no problems there, because the scholarship of students with special needs is necessary, is something special and here we are united. Regrettably, despite your request not to discuss this, I must take my time and say that students and students must not be criticized because these are representatives of civil society that we must take into account. Thus, we do not have the right to criticize any student organisation in this place. Just as we should really focus on the real facts, that what someone did and at what time they did. I'm sorry, we're all responsible! For a year and a half, I'm listening to who did something and what didn't do and what didn't. We take advantage of every possibility of populism and the fact that someone else is guilty of something. We're all guilty of sitting here. All the representatives, wherever we work, are responsible for everything. The Ministry said it very well, explained it. I think there will also be a movement in this area, although it has to be said that Zois' scholarships really cannot be received by all, including athletes. The one who's the champion in the field, like the MP sitting next to me said, can't get Zois' scholarship if he's got bad grades. I think we have to stop populism, we have to stop presenting our client as something special. We're part of a society and we're all responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you. Although the interest in replica is expressed, I really suggest that we not replicate the theme of Zois' scholarships, because we will not come up with any solution, because we cannot fix this solution. In the law, the article that talks about it is closed. If it is possible to replicate the second content: yes, but if we continue with the content of Zois' scholarships, then you must allow me to interrupt you consistently in discussions and in replicas. Here you go, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u58	I have a procedural, distinguished president. I asked for a replica. The replica is always about something someone said before you, you were mentioned, or you recognized yourself in his discussion. I can't replicate on something third. I think it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to give me, no matter what, a chance for a replica. Look, I have half a minute left, I'd like to answer all those wrong allegations and the wrong ones. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] which my colleagues have spoken during their debate on the content that is not the subject of the amendment. In short, I want you to give me a chance to take half a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u59	Look, I gave you my word for the replica. You used it to try to direct me to how to act. If we wanted to, we could use it by now. I cannot give you another word to discuss this topic. I only ask if anyone else wants a word about Article 20 and about the amendment to Article 20, the rest of the debate, unfortunately, I will not allow it. No, I'm sorry, but we just took too much time to do that. Anyone else want to discuss Article 20? If you would like to discuss Article 20, do I invite you to discuss or report? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] There's no one registered. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mrs. Tomcheva.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u60	Dear President, yes, I have a procedural proposal. I've had it before, and I'm asking you to turn back your time, because my time has run out as if it had a replica, I'm sorry. This is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please follow the rules of procedure and take into account the time taken into account in the procedure or in the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u61	Once again, I would like to warn you, I have made it clear that I will not allow this round of discussions around Zois's scholarships. I'm so sorry I can't give you any extra time to make further arguments through the replica on this subject. I'm afraid I can't give you a word or a replica on the subject of Zois' scholarships. Anyone else want to discuss Article 20? Procedural? Mrs. Tomcheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u62	I'm sorry, President, but it's really inappropriate for us to talk about 30 seconds now, but I'm going to insist: you took them away from me at the time I had a procedural proposal. On what basis did you decide to do so in the Rules of Procedure? I asked for a procedural proposal and you gave me your word that I had a procedural proposal. Then I noticed that you picked up the time for the debate. That's all I'm asking because I want the Rules of Procedure to be respected, and I think I'm right here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u63	I fully understand you, but let us understand that the President is deciding how he will interpret the Rules of Procedure at a given time. I have specifically warned you that it will not be possible to discuss an article that is not open and I also ask you, on my part, to understand that I have this opportunity and competence to manage the meeting. Anyone else want to discuss Article 20? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 20 and the amendment to this Article. I am opening the debate on Article 123 and the amendment of the groups of Members to Article 123. Does anyone want to discuss this article? I note that there are no applications for debate and that, because it does not wish to discuss anything, I am concluding the debate on Article 123 and the amendment. You have the floor, Secretary of State, Mr. Dejan Levanič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. The Ministry proposes that the draft law be considered in accordance with Rule 3 at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you. Otherwise, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21:00 and 50 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 22 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Maša Kociper, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Senk Plitčanič, Minister of Justice. Yes, for an advocate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u66	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you are introduced to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, I will present each of you briefly and first a few introductory words. We have been preparing proposals for amendments to both laws, namely the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, for a good year. Based on the proposals of the judiciary and on our own findings on this – thank you very much for raising the counter, I will now make this introduction much easier – in short, based on the proposals of the judiciary, I stress this, and our own conclusions on what needs to be changed in these two, for the functioning of the judiciary, the key laws. What needs to be changed, of course, with the objective that we are pursuing all the time, is to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary, which in particular means speeding up judicial proceedings and speeding up the resolution of judicial backlogs. In view of this objective, which is very ambitious, I must say that both novelties represent the first stage of those most urgent changes, in particular in the management, organisation of the work of the courts, personal responsibility, supervision of the judicial administration, and all those issues which, according to our assessment and also the assessment of those with which we have coordinated ourselves, are essential for the judiciary to take the necessary first steps to achieve this objective as soon as possible, i.e. to increase efficiency in the judiciary. In particular, let me stress the importance of the two novels to the realization of the commitment made by the Government and the judiciary to Slovenian citizens and citizens in one year, that is to say, up to 1. 3. In 2014, radically reduced judicial proceedings and radically accelerated the abolition of judicial backlogs. As it is said, it is the first stage of urgent changes, followed or required another phase that will address some, including important issues that we have decided can wait until autumn. The judiciary, as you know, is a large system with an extremely important role in Slovenian society, also generally so, and of course with the extremely important status it has in Slovenian society. The backlog, the lengthy judicial proceedings, the negative events of recent years have shown that changes are urgently needed. Let me say, this is my personal opinion that we have relied too much on the self-control and personal responsibility of all those acting in the judiciary, in particular those performing leading functions in the judiciary, as well as of all the judges and judges, who, to remind you again, are every public official. Since we have relied too much on self-control and personal responsibility, as mentioned above, I think we can all find out together, this has also shown a recent extraordinary meeting that a comprehensive reform is simply needed on these very issues that I am talking about. So control, personal responsibility, leadership, rationalisation of work and similar issues are precisely the ones we are addressing with these two novels because it is obvious that in recent years, decades, virtually all the time after independence, too little attention has been given to these issues, including too little attention by the legislative body and of course too little attention by the government. For all this we increase the powers of the Presidents of the Courts, the powers of the Supreme Court, which, within the Slovenian judiciary, is the hierarchical highest court for the appropriate organisation of the judiciary as a whole. So, the Supreme Court, to warn you, is responsible for the proper organisation of the judiciary as a whole and for the so-called judicial administration. When it comes to other issues, this is a hierarchical jurisdiction associated with the judicial system, of course, the story is different. However, when it comes to the judicial administration, the organisation of the work in the courts, it is precisely the Supreme Court that has important powers here. Of course, we also increase the powers of our ministry. Every increased transparency, every criticism, every additional control is never received with enthusiasm, this is human and understandable, so I am particularly positive that there are also many who support and welcome change in the judiciary. To be honest, without some of the presidents of the courts, without their support, knowledge and experience, both laws would be difficult to prepare. That is also why I believe in this reform and I strongly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation and we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Maša Kociper to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u68	Dear Members and Members, distinguished Minister, a lovely greeting! It is true that it has not been 14 days since we held an extensive debate on the state of justice here in the National Assembly and, among other things, concluded that the situation in justice is not satisfactory and that improvements, including in the field of legislation, are important and necessary. Indeed, this finding did not require any extraordinary meeting, nor did it require a new public presentation of opinions, but only any new conclusions, because that certain changes are necessary, we are clearly told by citizens who are not at all satisfied with the state of law and the effectiveness of justice. In recent years, Slovenian justice has not reacted adequately enough and quickly to some of the excesses that have emerged in Slovenian society and has ruled for too long or still decides on certain rebuttal, in particular criminal matters. This and some wrong or inappropriately communicated procedural decisions have led to the fact that the reputation of the judiciary in the eyes of the public is dangerously low, which is extremely bad for every legal and democratic country. Even in such a bad situation, the irresponsible behaviour of some politicians and their advocates and supporters who do not respect the courts does not participate in public hearings, discredit judges and judicial decisions, and strive to show and prove that everything is wrong in court. Some, therefore, feel that it is necessary in court to chandelier and replace everything and to completely amend not only the legislation but even our constitution. But as I said in the debate at the extraordinary session, how could it be that simple! And if it's that simple, how come it hasn't been done in the past? But the truth is that in this way, people and creative legislative solutions would be run out sooner than better results and the rule of law. Despite all the dissatisfaction with justice and what has been happening in recent years, the Positive Slovenia Group believes that this cannot be a reason for headless and drastic interference with legislation, as such solutions have caused new problems and very negative effects in the past. The new laws that are before us today have therefore arisen in a longer period and a dialogue with the profession and users and are trying to improve the situation where the problems in practice have appeared. Some statistics, as well as analyses for 2012, show that the situation is improving in some areas. This reduces the number of pending cases, by 16% in one year, from 4.6 months in 2011 to 3.6 months in 2012, the average expected time for resolving all cases decreased from 8.7 months to 7.7 months in 2012 and for more important matters decreased from 8.7 months to 7.7 months in 2012. The number of oldest cases is also decreasing, which declined by a good 20% at the end of 2012 compared to 2011. However, the problems and negative trends are mainly related to important issues and this is what the coalition objectives and the signed commitment signed last week by the President of the Government, the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia are all about. Among other things, they highlighted the adoption of new legislation between the coalition objectives and this commitment, which would constitute more responsibility and more authority for the administration of the judiciary. Because of all that has been said, we have before us the new Law on Courts, which brings some key contributions to strengthening this branch of power and strengthening control within it. In particular, it pursues the following objectives: to increase and strengthen the independence of the judiciary in order to ensure greater efficiency of this branch, to increase the quality and control of judicial administration and to increase the responsibility of the judiciary for its work. One key objective, however, is to eliminate judicial backlogs, so that the average duration of decision-making at first stage 6 will be 3 months and the same should be applied in exceptional legal proceedings. With a view to strengthening this branch of power and greater responsibility, more responsibility is given to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which must be the one who, in addition to its responsibility, has the appropriate powers to run the judiciary. It shall be transmitted to the Central Human Resources Records and to the right to maintain the Court’s electoral directory. The Supreme Court will play a greater role in determining the number of judicial posts required in individual courts. On the basis of the annual reports and the monitoring of the situation in individual courts, the Supreme Court will be able to more quickly detect the needs of the courts and take appropriate action. Determination of the number of judicial posts, jurors' posts and trainee posts for judicial assistants, the appointment of court directors and the award of various recognitions to public servants, all of which are the tasks of the judicial administration, for which the Government considers it more appropriate to carry out them alone. In this way, it will no longer depend on the services of the executive branch of authority, which will ensure greater flexibility and procedures can be faster and more efficient, and many of the excuses that have been made will be rejected. The essence of the new Law on Courts is, above all, better control over the work of the courts. The Supreme Court is therefore responsible for preparing analyses to assess the implementation of the judiciary and to adopt and establish criteria for the quality of the work of the courts for the following year, the case-solving process and instructions for the effective enforcement of the judicial administration. Clear timelines will be set, in particular the expected time for individual procedural actions and the resolution of cases on individual types and stages of courts. The fact is that the judicial backlogs and the duration of the proceedings are the largest rakrana of our judiciary, as the European Commission also points out in point 7 of its recommendation, where it says that Slovenia should continue to upgrade its efforts to further reduce the duration of civil and economic disputes at 1st stage and the number of cases pending treatment, in particular in matters relating to enforcement. In order to strengthen control over the implementation of these time standards, the Ministry of Justice shall establish a special service for the supervision of the organisation of operations led by the appointed judge. This service will supervise the judicial administration itself, in particular with regard to the organisation of operations and the completion of the criteria, and will assess the effective implementation of these criteria in practice. However, it is also clear from the law that, in exercising its powers, this service must not interfere with the independence of the judge in the performance of the judicial service, in the presumption of innocence, in the confidentiality of the judicial procedure or in the guarantee of a fair trial. Nor will the service have direct contact with the judges, as it will exercise control through the President of the Court, the Director of the Court and the judicial staff. In cases where irregularities have an impact on the efficiency or effectiveness of the work of the court, that service will also have the opportunity to make a proposal for the discharge of the President of the Court. The legislation thus described and proposed is in no way prejudiced at any point in the judge's independence of judgment in a particular case. Independence in decision-making remains an untouchable category for us, and we want to significantly increase the efficiency of judicial work. In Positive Slovenia, therefore, we are aware of the problems faced by the judiciary, and we are also aware that each of the three branches of government must contribute to their resolution. The law before us is one of the tools that the judiciary can offer to the legislative branch of the authorities in order to achieve this objective and thus to restore or restore greater respect. However, it is up to the judiciary to what extent it will be successful in achieving this objective. We will, of course, support the bill in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Let me start with a parable or a comparison that could tell us a lot. Minister, we're in a room, you're an excellent local doctor who's very well diagnosed with a patient, this patient is even from your lower circle, and you said that this patient has cancer, you said he's severely demented, so he's already doing damage to the house, which is obvious and has wider influences, but now we're in these two laws. [[...]] First of all, you put a glass of very harmless taps on the table. This cedeviity will help the patient, perhaps in a few moments a smile will return to his face, do him no harm, but also do him no good. As a doctor, however, we should most likely write an immediate referral to the Clinical Center, where we should organize a group of experts to operate on this patient and bring him back to normal life. These two laws, or the law before us, do not harm any of the provisions provided for in this law. In fact, we can say that it is good, but we give more powers to the judiciary, we impose more control on it, and when it is decades and more, to say no to the twentieth century, the judicial branch of power in fact convinces us that it does not want to shut itself down and that nothing helps it. She's not ready to take a step into Europe. But a foot on the ground, as if it were written today in 1988, 1989 and not in 2013; as if we were not living in Europe, but as if we were some lonely island in the middle of this Europe, operating according to the system that it was actually. In short, I miss you so much. [[...]] Let me start by saying that we will not oppose the law because it is not harmful because it does not bring harm, as amended by the laws proposed by former Minister Zalar. Therefore, let the law go through Parliament and there is no problem for us in this regard. What I would like to stress or what needs to be said is that Slovenia is obliged to put its justice where it belongs. This means European standards, European starting points, European ethical standards, European expertise, the average European spending of funds, the average number of European judges. That's what's important. Personally, I think the Minister has the right effort, his views are absolutely right, because he is doing the right thing, but then we stop – as with the local doctor. There's no clinic center. This means that the coalition, which is the first to be responsible for the situation in the country and even in the judiciary under its constitutional powers, should establish a thorough plan to align itself with the opposition, that would be a good thing, and to make a comprehensive judicial reform. A complete judicial reform that would go in the same direction as I was talking about. First something about responsibility and first something about where we should put Slovenian justice. But the Slovenian judiciary isn't on it, we've been warned a long time ago, and I'm not going to repeat the famous sentence of German Judge Doukoff again, but I'm going to go to 27. 3. 2013 At that time, the European Commission actually warned us with a well-known document on the state of justice. We have been very clearly told that the economic crisis, its resolution, requires radical changes in justice. Root changes in justice! Dr Klemen Jaklič says that many European countries have reformed justice systems at this time, during the economic crisis, and are now on the road from this economic crisis, and justice has also made an important contribution. Unfortunately, we haven't done it yet. The European Commission also says that justice is an essential segment that can contribute to a better economic situation, a way out of the crisis. We are reminded that the judiciary is in fact the foundation of European democracies and that this is not the case with us. It also says that predictable timely judicial decisions are important for the recovery from the economic crisis and for the economic business environment. This is why Slovenia is ranked among the six risk countries in this area – a document that is good for two months. The European Commission also makes it clear that we are somewhere on the European tail after the duration of civil economic affairs. We've got Cyprus, Malta, Italy. It also tells us that we pay too much for justice. We pay substantially too much, twice as much as the average of the European Union per judge. We pay twice as much, and with the balance, as far as I know, something else has to be provided, which is not good. We are reminded that we have 71 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, 71.2 – that the average of Europe is 45. We are reminded that we have 209 employees in the courts per 100,000 inhabitants – that in Europe there is an average of 103. Thus, we have more than once judges and judicial staff than the average of the European Union. The number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants is one way or another, we know that it is far the highest in Europe. The European Commission is also very clear on what it is ordering. "You're shortening the court's backlog," they say. And another thing they say is that bankers have to be held accountable for bad loans. Let me remind you. It's been a year since Dr. Fisher's table has been marked by a confidential report from the Bank of Slovenia that talks about these bad loans, and nothing has happened. More! Dr Fisher told the Justice Committee, when we talked about the state of justice, that this case, i.e. the case of bad loans, is being dealt with by one prosecutor half the time. Instead of forming a team of 20 prosecutors from 170, 180 prosecutors, we already have over 70 well-paid experts at the NPU, and instead of this team working 24 hours a day, so one prosecutor is working half-time. This calls for sharp and radical interventions in this area! There's nothing going on. Of course, I must say that we will probably still be witnesses today, as many times do, to words such as the independence of justice, constitutionally guaranteed independence of justice and so on, so let me remind you that this is otherwise true. We have three branches of power, which are independent, about that fourth and still no point in talking about who has its own power anyway. The legislative, judicial and executive branches of power are therefore independent. Each within his or her powers. That's clear, too. We make laws, and nothing can affect that. They are proposed by the government and must not be affected. The judicial branch of power is also independent from the point of view of the trial, and not from the point of view of everything else, which we throw in the same basket by mistake; so do we Members and thereby humiliate ourselves. I wish we didn't. Therefore, no one can touch these autonomys, parliament, governments and the judiciary, even if they are in front of the government or here in front of the house, before parliament, demonstrations affecting our decision-making are under pressure. But even before the courts, there's no problem here, not in Western Europe. They still have to judge independently. So if we take all these powers into account, we can say very clearly, and here I return to the beginning of my performance: we must go to justice. We adopt laws and not justice. They're executed by justice. There is no reason, as we will hear today: The Council of Justice disagrees, the leadership of the Supreme Court disagrees with one or another solution. And since he doesn't agree, we can't. That's not true! We accept the laws! And it is our right and duty to go to justice – from the standpoint of the adoption of laws, of course. There has been a lot of talk about judicial backlogs, so I'm not going to deal with it, and my colleagues are probably going to say something about it. Perhaps something on the subject of a permanent mandate that requires a change of constitution in one way or another. We have this permanent mandate, and this is a European norm, so there is no particular problem. But it doesn't say anywhere that you have to get a permanent term the first day you get to work, the first day you become a judge. Absolutely not! That's not what most countries actually do. With regard to the independence of the judiciary. So, the independence of the judiciary: that when making decisions, but I could tell you as much as you want cases of wrongdoing as you want cases of errors in the judiciary as much as you want inefficiency – the numbers will tell you – as much as you want to about irresponsibility, I will eventually tell the case from today. And how much more could I talk about the squabbles between judges, bankruptcy administrators, lawyers, if you like, and so on — this is not about the independence of the judiciary. So, the fact is that judging in unreasonablely long periods is not a matter of judicial independence. Even more, some European countries have the envisaged sanctions for judges. Political motivation is not a matter of judicial independence. I would like to stress that in closing, I am going to touch the latest case that shows this. Obsolete abroad is sanctioned – we do not, we call it independence. They sanction the established writings abroad – and we say that this is independence. No, it's not independence. The lost files abroad are sanctioning – we claim that this is a matter of judicial independence. Lately written judgments abroad are sanctioned — but that is not the case with us. And I could count it. Let's not talk about protecting our own privileges, if you want, which we've been warned about from abroad. Let me just say briefly — for those of you who did not listen to me last time at the committee meeting — that the situation in our judiciary is simply so that we adopted legislation immediately after independence, in which we said that judges could be appointed for a permanent term. However, this law brought another condition, this condition was, and it is true that in the past they did not judge or make decisions that would constitute violations of human rights. No one respected this law. See, the judicial branch of this law did not respect – it was adopted in Parliament! Generally speaking, they have given each other permanent mandates without respect for the law. At the head of the Supreme Court, we have a man who has violated these things. We have a man at the head of the DA's office who violated human rights. How much longer! But how do we imagine that, Minister, with all these measures that the Ministry envisages, we will also be those in advance in order to achieve a certain goal? Yeah, how's that?Oh, my God! However, if we have two institutions, the Supreme Court and the prosecution, people who do not want to do so, who did not respect the 1991 law, have become constitutional judges and today run two of the most important institutions in the judiciary! It can't be! With these people it is not possible to establish order in justice, that is a fact. Let me warn you that although Slovenia has an orderly disciplinary responsibility for judges, of course it has. But let's stop at the number of sanctions imposed, and you'll see that it's almost zero or there from four to six proceedings a year, which of course don't end because a judge or a prosecutor who sees that it won't work out in such a case just goes away and becomes a lawyer tomorrow. Well, then they get him along with the defendant in a car, and the police want a warrant to investigate this car, and he doesn't get it. I am talking about the case of Mr Penk and Mr Zidar. And nothing happens. More! 134. Article 134 of the Constitution states that judges have immunity, professional immunity, no one can be called to account and so on. That — if this were to apply in practice to decisions taken, you cannot invoke the responsibility of a judge who has decided: acquittal who has decided: two years in prison, 10 years in prison, and so on. That's why he can't be called to account. This can be agreed upon. However, we also push everything else into this, including the wrong decisions that Strasbourg annuls, the case of a lawyer from ten years ago who was punished by the court, if she insulted the courts, but Strasbourg says after ten years it is not true and the lawyer gets the compensation paid by the citizens. 26. We also have Article 26 of the Constitution in this way – the right to reparation. Yes, of course, if a neighbor steals a hen, not for delays in justice, for wrong decisions, for misapplication of the law and so on. Otherwise, we are familiar with an article of the Penal Code that speaks of illegal, biased, or criminal proceedings. This article is also an ornament, an ornament in a law that has never been used. Keep looking. After all, Austria has things defined as it does. On paper, however, there is a situation quite similar to ours. They have disciplinary violations on paper, but they also apply to retired judges, including those who are already retired, even lower their wages. Judges in Austria are responsible – and I miss the Ministry's actions here too, I hope that we will get it on the table in the autumn. They are civilly responsible — in Austria. The law regulates a clean procedure due to misdemeanour, misdemeanour or misconduct, and the law governs this procedure. The individual who suffered the damage is suing the state and getting compensation. Yes, but this compensation does not pay Austria’s budget, but the state recovers it from a judge who has tried or violated those standards! It never happens with us. At each government meeting, you have between 5 and 10 items of the agenda, when it authorizes the government to pay enough to pay enough to pay that much. The Makoter case — 250 million. The case of Judge Škobrne, who was illegally imprisoned. I was sitting there when we pointed out that his immunity could not be taken away from him by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, but by the National Assembly, it was said that we were wrong in the opposition. Well, compensation has already been achieved today, which, of course, will not be paid by any judge, any investigative judge, but by the citizens. They also have criminal liability defined in Austria, including criminal liability of judges. Italy, which is not meant to be a model for us, but nevertheless; the disciplinary responsibility of judges, prosecutors, is arranged in the same way as with us. There is no point in further discussion. Civil liability of judges and prosecutors: virtually nothing until 1988, and then the Italians said a stop and went to a referendum; this resulted in the adoption of a law where this civil responsibility of judges and prosecutors was defined. Criminal responsibility is also defined. In the case of the substantive liability of judges and prosecutors in Italy, it is not only in Austria that it can be obtained from the State, but it then recovers it from the judge or the prosecutor, but you have cases where the individual can directly challenge the judge or the prosecutor, directly appeal the damage from the judge and the prosecutor. Germany, which can be an example for us: disciplinary responsibility is similar to that of us, so I will not talk about it, the civil responsibility of judges and prosecutors exists, it is not possible to sue the judge or the prosecutor directly, but rather to sue compensation from the state and this is a refund from the judge. So, sue the judge, even at a time when the judges are retired, say deep in the 1980s, and if there is any judgment that such a judge has judged something wrong and that something was wrong in those proceedings, they lower his pension, so his pension is reduced. We don't know that. They also know criminal responsibility. To avoid spending too much time, of course, with all these numbers, I have to draw attention once again to the following numbers. For example, in Austria, the data are from 2006, they give 26 sanctions to judges and prosecutors, 51 in Italy, 25 in Germany, and 1 in Germany. Why one? Because they ran away from the lawyers! However, when we proposed in the previous term that they could not become lawyers on the first day, but nothing happened, it was said, I think by the Council of Justice that this would be a violation of the Constitution. It's a violation of the Constitution. In fact, there's a right to work, they said. This right to work does not exist for police officers and criminals, and they must not work in security private organisations for four years after the tasks of a police officer or a criminal. Well, there's a right to work for them, but there's no right for cops. Then, if we look at the disciplinary procedures that have been introduced, that I don't kill you too much with these numbers, because that could be misleading, because the number of judges according to the population is just like that, so I'm going to say, I'm going to take the data from thousands of judges and prosecutors. Procedures introduced: 22 in Austria, 68 in Italy, 55 in Germany and 1. Prosecutors in Austria then 0, Italy 24, Germany 26, Slovenia 2 introduced proceedings. What about the sanctions imposed? In Austria they were spoken 26 – I speak all thousands of judges and prosecutors, of course – in Italy 51, in Germany 25, in Slovenia 1. So there is no responsibility. But, interestingly, again to 100,000 inhabitants, they have 22 judges in Austria, 11 in Italy, 24 in Germany and 50 in Slovenia. Prosecutors 2.6 in Austria, Italy 3.8 in Germany 6.2 in Slovenia 9. To conclude this. Number of cases that the individual prosecutor receives to solve at the annual level: in Austria 2 000 821, in Italy a thousand 317 in Germany 967, in Slovenia 519. And then Dr. Fisher says he doesn't have any prosecutors, that there's not enough prosecutors. 519 receive them at the annual level, 519 receive them, and 2 000 receive Austria's 821! What do these prosecutors do? See, the Austrian makes 353 indictments at the annual level, and in Italy 257, in Germany 234, our 71. That's five times less than the Austrian prosecutor! I am deeply convinced or in the Group of Members we are convinced that legal and constitutional intervention in Slovenian justice is needed. Everything we accept now is welcome and nothing is wrong. Therefore, we will not criticize in a single word any of the articles that are before us today. But we don't think that's enough. We believe that the Minister is a lonely case, which is on the right track, but cannot reach the goal. It cannot reach the goal without the support of the Government and without the support of the coalition and this Parliament. Look, to conclude, something else about the independence of the judiciary, the latest case of today or a few days ago — I learned about it today. Judge Rakočevičeva, Supreme Court in Ljubljana, is said to be deciding on the second stage of the Patria case – whether or not it is already determined, I do not think it can be, but if it is a member of the Supreme Court, then it can be decided on the Patria case. She says in recent legal practice: "Barbara, sincere congratulations on your courage." He's talking about Judge Kleinschkow. Can you imagine? What does Dr. Cerar say? In response to the comments on the judgment in Patria, Dr Cerar argued that the legal community should, it is said, think all the lawyers, judges, prosecutors, etc., those who now claim that the judgment is or is not justified, immediately and decisively point out that such an act is not in line with professional ethics. It also points out that any lawyer today makes a public statement on these matters cannot, for the first time, because he violates the provisions of the codes, and for the second time, but even less could be tried at a second stage. See what the Law on Judicial Service states in Article 8: "He is not personally fit to perform a judicial function which, on the basis of his work, conduct or conduct so far, is justified in concluding that he will not perform judicial functions professionally, honestly or conscientiously, or that, as a judge, he will not safeguard the judicial reputation, impartiality and independence of the trial......" It is also stipulated in particular that the reputation of a judicial function is also protected by conduct outside the service. An article in Legal Practice published by the lady thus says, "Barbara, a sincere congratulations on your courage." Ladies and gentlemen, she's already told us how she's going to decide on stage two! Isn't it? Yes, of course she did! And so we are talking about the independence of the judiciary. That's not possible. This is not possible by the measures envisaged, but essentially sharper and radical measures are needed. If I go back to the beginning: the patient is demented and has cancer. It'll be too cheap! We're gonna need a big team of experts and a thorough operation. Therefore, as far as this and the next law are concerned, we do not object to any article and do not oppose any of the two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! It is my job to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. This will not be a rerun of yesterday's parliamentary questions or a rerun of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly or an urgent meeting of the Committee, but I will focus in my opinion on the Law on Courts. One of the key objectives of the proposed novel is, as the drafter wrote, to remedy the judicial backlog. Dearly noted, the effectiveness of the courts as a goal has not been written for the first time, nor has it been said, but I would point out that the Ombudsman, the former guardian, points out that the work of the courts is not only about speed but also about the quality of the work done. For some time now, it has been considered necessary to introduce a management approach to the judiciary or to the court. Since the end of 2009, a number of amendments have been made, in particular with regard to the modernisation of the organisation, administration and administration of courts, the recast of judicial standards, the determination of the appropriate number of judges in the individual court, the establishment of a specialised section for the trial of more complex cases and so on. Among the more important solutions we have also considered the extension of the powers of the Council of Justice, thereby strengthening its role in the appointment and discharge of the President of the Courts, as well as the establishment of a specialised section to judge the more complex requirements of organised and economic crime, the concentration of the management and management of the District Courts and the transfer of powers that do not constitute the execution of the Judicial Service from the Presidents of the Courts to the Directors of the Courts. More efficient court management based on annual planning and analysis of the results of court operations have, in our view, been good and represent some overheating of the courtrooms and the system. These legal solutions began to apply on 1 January 2010 and on 1 January 2011, but we also need to take into account the one-year period for adapting the courts to the news. So after a good year of action under the new rules, we meet again with the amendment to the Law on Courts. In addition to the above-mentioned key objective, the proposer also directs solutions to strengthen the independence of the judiciary. This is mainly about the transfer of certain human resources powers from the Ministry of Justice to the courts. Let me put it this way: a) The number of judicial posts, the number of judicial posts in specialised departments, the number of jurors and trainee posts for judicial assistants shall be transferred to the President of the Supreme Court. (b) The powers to monitor, identify and analyse the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the Courts shall be transferred from the Court of Justice to the Supreme Court. c) The management of the central staff record and the judicial electoral directory shall also be transferred to the Supreme Court. (c) The appointment of the Director of the Court from the Minister responsible for Justice shall transmit the amendment to the President of the Court. An increase in the quality of supervision of the judiciary – and this is what the Minister has discussed today in the supplementary explanation, especially how self-control is not sufficient – wants to be achieved by establishing a special supervisory service for the organisation of this business, which will operate in the Ministry of Justice, and will be led by an appointed judge. With this solution, we ask ourselves whether this ensures the independence of the judiciary, since Article 65a, paragraph 3, states that: "The Supervisory Service", I quote, "reviews the records and other documents of the court relating to the administration of the cases of the judicial administration and requires oral or written explanations from the President of the Court, the Director of the Court, the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court of Slovenia and the judicial staff in relation to alleged, suspected or established irregularities in the management of these cases", and in such and administrative reviews he may also look into the Court's files. For the first time, for example, "... requires the submission of information on the conduct of the court and the work of the President or the Director of the Court of Justice in matters of judicial administration, requires the submission of written explanations and reports on the organisation and supervision of the work of the court and on the performance of the individual tasks of the judicial administration, while the President of the Court of Justice shall determine the higher rates at the same time as the submission of the data or explanations and reports thereto in his opinion." Secondly, "enters the premises of the court, conducts interviews with the President of the Court, the Director of the Court, the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court of Slovenia and the judicial staff" and other staff members of the Court. And thirdly, "... requires or proposes other measures to exercise its competence under this law." In some cases this is one way or another 'and other powers'. This law also increases the responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts. It also seeks to relieve the judges of those tasks that are not related to the trial. Well, here's the question of the purpose of abolishing the Lukend project. Social Democrats believe that the ministry, run by the same minister, should already be thinking not about the abolition, but perhaps about the reshaping of the Lukend project or the upgrade, so to speak – this is more modern. Some 250 judicial assistants were dismissed who burdened judges with bureaucratic or non-judicial tasks. The applicant assesses that the draft law has no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. But we don't know if that's true. If the government tries to fill this gap with a lack of judicial assistants, a source will also need to be found, and it will probably be necessary to cut into the personnel plan. From the signed commitment between the government and the judiciary given to the people, we understand that there will be 56 less judges on 1 June 2014 and that the number of judges will increase by 150. Let me point out once again that this concept at some points differs significantly from what we considered to be good and which we believe has not yet fully developed – but I am looking, of course, at the 2009 law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will always advocate for independence from the judiciary. Policy can and must ensure that the judiciary can carry out the tasks imposed by the Constitution and legislation impartially and independently. I merely rhetorically ask: Is it possible to make this happen by constantly repeating some of the findings that are sometimes very flattened? The holders of the highest political functions must respect the decisions of the courts. However, the officials of the judiciary should ensure that they regain the reputation and respect of citizens and citizens through quality and effective work. We will support the proposed conclusion that the amendment of the law is appropriate for further consideration, but we will continue to seek to make more concrete the amendments and what the supervisory service absolutely cannot do. We believe that we cannot afford to allow ourselves, on the basis of overly loose provisions, to look even at the files, into specific matters. We must not allow ourselves, under the pretext of monitoring the functioning of the courts in terms of the effectiveness of policies, to open the door to the courts to specific cases. In particular, at the end, let me point out once again that in the Group of Social Democrats we do not think about changing the constitution at a point that would end a permanent judicial mandate. It is also not possible to understand at the extraordinary meeting of the decisions adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by Mr Richard Braniselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President. In my position, I will try to avoid what the legislation that is before us today actually brings, and I would like to highlight certain points where it seems to us in the Civil Gazette that this is important. For a little while. The fundamental objectives followed by the proposal of the law can be summed up briefly in the following sets: harmonisation of legislation governing higher education and evaluation and recognition of education; transfer of the powers of administration to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia; merger of the central staff record and personal records of judges; and transfer of records to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia; more effective evaluation of the work of the judge; modernisation of the Institute of Official Oversight; alignment with the Public Prosecutor's Office Act; and coordination with the Proposal for a Judicial Service Act. Even more focused; the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes legislative changes whose main purpose is to pursue the following objectives: to increase the efficiency and independence of the judiciary, to increase the quality of control over judicial administration and to increase the responsibility of the judiciary. Let us remember what the responses of the Council of Justice to the proposed reforms are, and I will quote their opinion. The Council of Justice stresses that the amendment of both system laws should be based on strategic guidelines for the development of the judiciary. These should be adopted on the basis of an in-depth professional debate involving the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and experts in the field of constitutional law, as it is a matter of finding a sensitive balance between ensuring the urgent control of the work of the judiciary by other branches of government and preventing unacceptable influence on the work of judges and on their decisions. While rapid and unthinkable legislative changes may give the public the impression that problems in the judiciary are being resolved, only political effects will be achieved, limited to the time of the new elections, and no such changes will contribute to the consolidation of the rule of law. That's what the world of justice is like. The Council of Justice has been able to propose amendments, its views, its constructive proposals, the end of this reform, which is now on the table, to be coordinated and written for at least a year, and I am sure that the Supreme Court and all other institutions are also involved in these changes. And one more thing, when someone refers to thought and in-depth professional debates, is too much of an excuse not to introduce reforms. But we know that these reforms need to be implemented, here and now, and what we do not really have much time to delay. A decision must be taken and these reforms taken. The highest level of judicial authority is critical until the establishment of a supervisory service that will operate at the Ministry of Justice, and will be able to verify whether an individual court complies with the annual work plans. If it assesses that the work plan is not satisfactory, it will be able to propose the discharge of the President of the Court. The provisions on the exercise of judicial supervision by establishing a special supervisory service, the organisation of such an operation, which will operate in the Ministry of Justice, shall be supplemented. The Supervisory Service will be able to supervise the judicial administration of the courts itself, in particular as regards the organisation of operations and the fulfilment of the criteria for the quality of their work, and to identify the effects of meeting these criteria in the course of the judicial administration. In the exercise of its powers, the service shall be without prejudice to the independence of the judge in the performance of the judicial service, the presumption of innocence, the confidentiality of the judicial procedure or the guarantee of a fair trial. Nor will the service have direct contact with the judges, as it will exercise control through the President of the Court, the Director of the Court or the judicial staff, as it is particularly necessary to safeguard the independence of the court and the judges. The supervisory authority will draw up a report in which the President of the Court may be asked to remedy the illegality or to take other necessary measures, and may request the President of the Court to take certain measures and also invite the Minister responsible for Justice to carry out further measures in accordance with his or her powers. The Council of Justice recognises such a solution as the possibility of direct political interference by the executive branch in court. Is that true? The explanation I'm giving already denies that. That's not true. The Ministry is simply proposing, with the judicial branch of power deciding what will happen to these measures and what will be the consistency. That's what you say. Just a suggestion. And there is no effect on the judiciary as such, but the effect on judicial management, which has nothing to do with specific cases, is that it manages the administration of the court. It also has no possibility of having an impact on specific cases, on specific judges. Let's see what kind of authority the minister has now. Not significantly weaker, but milder. The Ministry or the Minister responsible for justice now has the following possibilities under the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service to supervise the work of the individual judge. The assessment of the judicial service – the Minister may propose an assessment of the judicial service. It proposes an assessment of the judicial service. It exercises official control over the work of the courts through the Presidents of the higher courts, which is now being introduced but in a modified manner. On the basis of this measure, the Minister may request the President of the Supreme Court to take certain measures. However, if they do not, they do not follow any sanctions; they only propose not to interfere. It proposes a procedure for determining disciplinary responsibility for judges. It proposes; it does not say or find itself alone, but only proposes. And he proposes official supervision of the work of the judge carried out by the President of the Court. Again: it does not decide on the findings and itself does not make a finding, but only proposes. The Ministry of Justice has, as a problem in the exercise of official controls so far, seen in particular a different interpretation of Article 79.b of the Judicial Service Act, which provides that the President of the Court shall carry out official controls on a proposal from the Ministry responsible for justice. Watch out! In 2012, the Council of Justice rejected all the Minister's proposals and requests for official supervision of the judges of the District Court in Ljubljana and the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. In the area of judicial and judicial reform, the pre-election programme of the National Gazette has the following objectives: "The judiciary, which must remain independent in the trial, will be invited to cooperate to restore the reputation and authority of the judiciary. In doing so, we will contribute to this authority by unconditional respect for judicial decisions. Another time. The aim of the judiciary is to eliminate judicial backlogs in five years, with no greater efficiency being achieved at the expense of the quality of judicial decisions. The standard deadline for the resolution of ordinary judicial and criminal cases will be six months at the first stage and three months at the second stage. Once the goal is achieved, we will set a new, more ambitious one. Point three. Each court will have certain measurable objectives for each year. The key responsibility for achieving the objectives will be for the Presidents of the Courts, who will be responsible for the implementation of their mandate. The Presidents of the Courts will be given more powers in the selection of judges, in the evaluation and award of their work performance and in the process of sanctioning them. The Presidents of the Courts shall exercise control over the efficiency of the conduct of proceedings without prejudice to the autonomy of the Judges in their decisions. Judges will be burdened with non-judicial work." We are pleased to note in the Civil Gazette that or that these objectives will be very close to meeting the commitments of the voters of the Republic of Slovenia, with the measures already taken in the field of justice and with the proposed measures and the signed commitment between the judiciary and the Government. And not just that. The Minister has already announced, the third part of the judicial reform is coming, which will bring about changes and improvements in the optimisation of the network of courts, the reinforcement of the judicial districts, the establishment of a judicial service and a judicial examination, which will round up the judicial reform that is to be adopted this year, and we are already critically expecting results in the coming year. What is the part that is not yet covered by reforms, but would still be necessary? This is the thought of raising the age limit for entering the judicial service. The age limit for this moment in the Republic of Slovenia is 30 years. This is a few years after graduating from law school, that is to say, with only a few years of work experience we have judges who are judges. We think that this threshold should be raised for at least 5 years or even more. We know the judges work for us until we're 70. By raising the threshold of entry into the judicial service, we get significantly better candidates, we get candidates who bring some experience into the judicial service not only from the judiciary itself, from the lawyers' office, from the prosecution, from the defence, but also bring life experiences that they will be able to solve in their day-to-day work. In this way, we also avoid the need to train judges on a continuous basis, to train them, we get people who are already profiled, who are already trained and who are able to conduct judicial proceedings in a sovereign manner and who are the masters of the courtrooms. Criteria for the selection of candidates by the Council of Justice. The judiciary's choice of candidates, as now provided for in the law, are the preferences or main criteria for the selection of candidates for the average evaluation in the Faculty of Law, the evaluation of the legal examination and the essential and greater emphasis should also be given to the previous references, the work experience and the personality of the appropriateness, the authority and so forth, which is not possible so far, not only because these criteria are not available, but also because of the fact that the young judges are coming into a permanent judicial mandate. The Civil Code foresees support for both laws, both the Law on Courts and also the Law on Judicial Service, and considers that they are both suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Red numbers of our companies, unemployment, mass going abroad, lost generation, full of pessimism. The stories of Slovenian entrepreneurs who are desperate and disappointed over our bureaucracy and unnecessary administrative obstacles, over the inefficiency of our judicial system, which chokes and inhibits development and business, go across the border and open their businesses in Croatia, Austria or Hungary, where the conditions for creating are much nicer. The dream of foreign investors opening new jobs for us remains only a dream because of the lack of competition in the business environment. In order to make the picture look better just now, we discussed many of the steps taken to get out of this situation in the last year and a half. On measures to rehabilitate the banking system, to help businesses, for a more flexible labour market and many others. Today, however, we can finally welcome the first steps towards more effective justice, which we have warned us are urgent and have waited for many months. There will probably be a lot of questions about whether justice has any role in Slovenia's economic growth. How can justice affect the economic situation of our country at all? Many do not realize the importance of this role; many do not want to be aware of it. Many have waved with their hands in the past, for quite some time, when we have been alerting us to urgent changes in justice, when, once again, these politicians are interfering with justice, and we have begun to talk a lot about the independence of the judiciary. This independence has often been an excuse for not having to change anything. However, the urgent changes in the functioning of the judiciary, changes in the direction of faster judicial proceedings, better court decisions, enforcement, all with a view to increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy are not merely a reminder of policy, are warned by economists, citizens and, last but not least, we have been warned by the European Commission. In the Slovenian People's Party, despite the fact that only words, promises and commitments do not convince us, we hope that the warnings are still in place and that the thinking of the judiciary about the importance of effective justice for the future of our country has begun to change, which is also indicated by the commitment made to improve the state of justice concluded between the judiciary and the government. It is only with a clear understanding that even in the area of liability for the future of our country, equality between all three branches of government: executive, legislative and judicial, we will be able to change things for the better. On many occasions, it has been evident that the more effective functioning of the judiciary is hampered by excessive organisational dependence on the executive branch, the apparent failure of the courts themselves to organise their work properly enough. In the Slovenian People's Party, we advocate that all institutions should be given a certain measure of autonomy in the performance of their tasks, but on the other hand, in this same institution also require responsibility for the work done. And it is the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary against the enforcement branch by increasing the responsibility of the judiciary itself for its functioning, and in particular its effects, that is the central purpose of the legislation that we are considering today. The new Law on Courts mainly brings human resources from the Ministry to the Supreme Court, which should allow for faster and more efficient procedures, while also increasing the responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts to manage the tasks of the judiciary, in accordance with certain criteria. We believe that the Presidents of the courts have a certain autonomy in their work to organise the work in a way that will be optimal, as they themselves should be most aware of the breathing of the court they run. Their management skills will depend on the success of the courts and the quality of the work carried out in a particular court. In line with the transfer of certain powers, it is also appropriate to increase the responsibility of the Presidents of the courts for the work done. In spite of the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary, it is necessary, on the basis of the system of brakes and balances, that the executive branch of the authority retains certain control over the part of the judicial branch, the supervision of the judicial administration of the courts. In view of the control options that have proven to be ineffective so far, since the legislative regime has not allowed sufficient effective action on the irregularities identified in the supervision of the work of the judicial administration, the novel creates a supervisory service for the organisation of the proceedings. It also envisages updating official publications on the website, depositing signatures and seals of court interpreters following an oath, which should increase transparency. Today's package of laws does not bring justice reform, in our opinion it brings only certain corrections and smaller solutions to increase the efficiency of justice. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are therefore not overly euphoric, but with our support for the amendment of the law at first reading, we hope that these changes will actually make the work of the courts at least minimally easier and contribute to their quality work. However, we expect the Minister to bring into the procedure laws where reforms will be more extensive, laws that will touch on systemic changes, amendments to individual procedures; in short, laws from which we can expect stronger effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished Members, Members of Parliament, everyone's welcome! Effective justice is crucial to the existence and democratic development of the rule of law, and there is no need to ignore the impact that the judiciary has on the functioning of the rule of law in the field of economic development, as well as on other segments of social life. We have been meeting with shortcomings in the judicial system for some time in Slovenia, and this has been discussed more and more intensively in the last few months, and even the plenary session of the National Assembly has recently taken place on the subject of the state of justice. We are also reminded of the need for some changes by the European Commission and Greece, a group of countries to fight corruption. There are also clear and unambiguous and sufficiently obvious indications of a number of judicial backlogs and a low reputation of the judiciary and other parts of justice in the public eye. Such a low reputation of the judiciary has also been influenced by poorly-managed proceedings, such as the Balkan Warrior and others, and by the failure of individual defendants not to respond or participate in judicial proceedings and thus inform the public that they are not taking the courts seriously. Respected, it is also very disturbing that some accused avoid court hearings with acquittals for illness, and in individual cases it turns out that their disease is not such as to prevent them from being present. So there is also doubt as to the authenticity of medical certificates. We are pleased that the seriousness of the situation in justice is also recognized by the Ministry of Justice, which has led them to take several steps to ensure the better functioning of the rule of law. One of them is the novels of the Law on Courts and the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service, which we are considering today. In the DeSUS Group, we support the signing of an undertaking to improve the situation in the judiciary signed on behalf of the judiciary by the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masles, and on behalf of the Government, the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek and Justice Minister Dr. Plitčanič. Above all, it is important that both the judiciary and the Government commit themselves to concrete measures to be implemented within a specified time limit, which is recorded within one year of the signing of the undertaking. By doing so and by preparing today's amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, we give the citizens and citizens a clear signal, as well as Brussels, that the Government has taken the warnings seriously and that we are actually seeking to ensure the effective functioning of the rule of law, which we have also committed to in the National Reform Programme. In addition, in the DeSUS Group, we stress the need for Slovenia to pursue long-term objectives in the area of justice in addition to resolving the current situation. These include ensuring as much legal certainty as possible, the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time frame, building greater confidence in the justice system and expanding access to justice, i.e. judicial protection. Of course, we cannot go beyond the importance of making more use of budgetary resources. In the short term, at least the first two objectives and the usefulness of spending public funds are achieved by reducing judicial backlogs and improving procedural legislation in particular, as well as by increasing court responsiveness and by more effective monitoring of their work by the Presidents of the Courts. By increasing the openness and transparency of court operations and a greater focus on the user of judicial services, it will also be possible to create greater public confidence in our judicial system. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts pursues all the above-mentioned objectives because, with the proposed legislative changes, it aims to increase the efficiency and strengthening of the independent court, to increase the quality of control over judicial administration and to increase the responsibility of the judiciary. In this case, control does not mean directing and instructing judges how to judge in specific cases, but rather means controlling the state over the legality and effectiveness of the courts. In the context of the proposals mentioned in the DeSUS Group, we particularly welcome the solution which foresees an increase in the responsibilities of the Presidents of the Courts. Since the President of the Court plays a key role in the enforcement of responsible, high-quality and transparent conduct of the courts, it is appropriate to introduce clear criteria and, consequently, appropriate sanctions if the President of the Court does not act in the direction of an effective and swift resolution of judicial cases. The DeSUS Group believes that it is very important that, in relation to the executive and legislative authorities, we also adequately position the judiciary. And this Law and the Law on Judicial Service will, in our opinion, undoubtedly contribute to restoring justice through strengthening independence on the one hand and increasing accountability on the other hand, to regain the reputation and place to which, as part of the third branch of power, it also belongs. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that the Minister of Justice has responded quickly to the justice situation and has taken a thorough and concrete approach to resolution. We support the proposed amendment of the Law on Courts in the DeSUS Group because we have assessed it to be suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The situation in the judiciary needs to be improved significantly. This fact is highlighted by politics, the economy, the European Commission and increasingly by our citizens. The debate at the last meeting of the National Assembly on the state of the Slovenian judiciary showed a number of irregularities, in particular cases to which the competent supervisory authorities within the judiciary did not respond at all. The state of judicial backlogs and their resolution is of concern. The Lukend project was launched in order to eliminate the judicial backlogs. According to the court's assurances, this is not the case. In some courts, judicial backlogs do not diminish or even increase. Otherwise, the general trend of reducing backlogs in the courts is significantly too slow. It is also a matter of concern that, with a relatively high reduction, the number of outstanding cases fell by only 2.2% last year, despite the fact that the Lukend project ran until the end of the previous year. In Nova Slovenija we note the fact that there has been an alternative dispute resolution project for several years and almost all courts. In particular, in court-associated mediations, a significant percentage of cases resolved in mediation procedures. The mediation procedures shall be conducted mainly by external operators, lawyers, notaries or others. The work of the Judges assigned to them in the resolution shall be minimal in such a successful mediation case. It is practically limited to one claim on which an agreement or settlement has already been drawn up. Therefore, the burden of judges has decreased and it is therefore not clear that 5 % of the less important cases were resolved in the past year. The legality of the courts and of the judges must be increased. This objective will, in our conviction, be achieved through regular and consistent monitoring of the quantity and quality of the work done by judges, judicial assistants and experts. In New Slovenia, we support the introduction of the management approach in the conduct of the courts and in this context the strengthening of the role, i.e. the powers and responsibilities of the Presidents of the courts. The Presidents of the Courts will have to regularly monitor data on compliance with the time limits for the execution of individual procedural cases, on the extent of the work of each Judge individually and on the basis of legal powers, if they find that the procedures do not run within the planned timeframes. The supervision of the Presidents of the Courts will also be supplemented by supervision by the Supervisory Service of the Ministry of Justice. These complementary forms of supervision are expected to produce certain results at least in the direction of clear responsibility for conducting the proceedings and trial within a reasonable time. We support the increase in the powers of the control service in the event of detected errors or illegality. In such cases, the service will propose measures to the President of the Court to remedy irregularities and illegality. In particular, it concerns measures relating to the provision of parties' rights to a trial without undue delay, compliance with the rules on the order of cases, respect for the legal time limits for the invitation to tender and the drafting of a judicial decision, and compliance with other procedural rules. As a last resort, in the event of an unsatisfactory response by the President of the Court to the proposed measures, the Supervisory Service will be able to propose the discharge of the President of the Court. The legislative basis for increasing jurisdiction over the supervision of the work of the courts is given on the side of the judiciary and, in part, on the part of the Ministry of Justice, is now the responsibility for its implementation in practice. The expectations of New Slovenia in this regard are high. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. The debate is about to start. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u82	Dear Members and Members, welcome! The Slovenian Constitution provides that the power is divided into three branches of government: legislative, executive and judicial. It seems that at least one branch of power, this is a judicial, somewhat special status. In principle, in a theory, the system should be organised in such a way that all three branches of government control each other and somehow make each other more difficult. But in some ways they control each other only the executive and legislative branch of power, while in the last period it seems that the judicial branch of power is completely untouchable. The amendments to the law are, however, aimed at imposing greater responsibility on the Presidents of the courts. In New Slovenia we estimate that this is a step in the right direction. But still, I'm not one of those people who would argue that we shouldn't be critical of the judiciary. I am convinced that it is necessary to be critical of the judiciary, to draw attention to things that are not good, and also to propose how and how the matter should be resolved. But in these proposals, we always run into the same obvious. These are indications of political involvement in the judiciary, and this is mostly the case when we are talking about restricting the mandate of judges. Judges today do not have a limited mandate, and once elected, virtually no one can resolve them. Even those who could be resolved have always proved to be those who have protected troubled judges. For example, if I go to our legislative branch of government, we always check our support every four years, sometimes even earlier, at a large referendum called elections. The executive branch of the Authority can practically verify its support every day in this Parliament whether it still has the majority support. In the case of judges, it seems that we should not even discuss the potential introduction of a probationary mandate, the potential introduction of a limited mandate, because all of this is an interference of policy in the judiciary. I simply cannot agree with this, and I am in favour of those who say that there is also a need to talk about the judiciary. However, I wish, and I hope, that these changes in the legislation before us will help us not to read many articles anymore – I don't think we need to read them when they talk about when the judge made a mistake. This error is extremely evident, but nevertheless the Council of Justice has not acted against this judge. Perhaps at least the beginning of some changes in the judiciary is the imposition of greater responsibility on the Presidents of the Courts. I would like to conclude my debate here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Now I give the word to Matjaž Zanoskar. Get ready, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President, colleague and colleague, Madam Secretary of State! From such introductory remarks made by representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have all expressed their agreement with the amendment of the Law on Courts, there is almost no need for any major debate. So we are all united, we all agree that the move taken by the Minister and the Ministry of Justice is necessary in this sense to create good conditions for the work of the courts. Of course, the amendment to the law is probably due to the identification of the European Commission for Justice, and this amendment has also been somewhat reshaped on the basis of a very, very widespread debate on justice, which we have been given recently and also on the Committee on Justice, and it is likely that the commitment between the Government and the judiciary is also the one that is probably ordering and suggesting that the situation in the judiciary will be rectified in the future. We don't care if we take justice as an independent branch of government, and we certainly don't care that this reputation and this confidence in justice has dropped slightly in the previous period, probably because of very difficult judicial procedures that have had a somewhat longer resolution period, and so it is also possible that this tool, represented by the new Law on Courts, can help us win this rating or this reputation, which it certainly deserves. Therefore, the novelty brings nothing but a tool and a tool for regulating internal organisation and home hygiene in such a way that these lines of responsibility are clearly defined, and the lines of control and efficiency are also clearly defined by transferring some of the things from the Council of Justice to the Supreme Court and also a few things from the Ministry to the Supreme Court. After all, the Supreme Court is the one who is an alpha and an ombudsman of the judiciary, and it is right that the Supreme Court has these powers to regulate the work of the courts and arrange their organisation. So these are key things that I personally believe are also the upgrades or upgrades of some European standards, European standards, by which it is right that our judicial branch of power is not different from other European countries. I am convinced that achieving the common objective is a day with this novelty, achieving a common objective of restoring respect and restoring confidence in justice in such a way that at least the most important parts of the organisation will be defined in the legislation. Of course, inviolability is not independence. [[...]] The judicial branch of power from a political point of view is independent, but of course it is touching; it is as touching in the way that the legislative branch of power today and determines a certain rhythm determines a certain pace and sets some standards. It is obvious, including from the judicial circles, that this is the quick-moving conduct of the legislative branch of power. Hypothetism can be justified by the fact that the situation is such that something has to be done quickly. This novel will certainly be the one that will work very effectively and will also deliver some results in a very short time. While all of this must be acknowledged that trends in the judiciary are improving to reduce unresolved issues, to reduce the time taken to solve individual cases, which is the only weak point that is possible, therefore, is to resolve more difficult procedures, to be slightly less effective, but I am sure that this will be rectified in the future. So, all together with the single goal of bringing the judiciary forward and gaining the reputation it deserves, of course, that these shortcomings, which have been mentioned in past practice, should be addressed in the best way. So, I support, as everyone else has already said, I personally support the amendment of the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor to prepare Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! This package, which we are adopting today with regard to the reform of justice, does not, of course, bring about some revolutionary or some special reform of justice, but only a few minor corrections. Now look, when the minister brings in some minor corrections, he's already in the air of the entire Council of Justice. Why should these adjustments actually be made? Yeah, obviously because something didn't work, it didn't work for too long, and it didn't work for too long. If you ask me, more serious legislative changes in this area will have to be made if we are to put our country in a place where it should be. The rehabilitation of banks, the management of state assets, all of this is of course important, but none of this can work if the judiciary is not functioning and if the judiciary is functioning as it should – and besides payment discipline – then things would be substantially different and today would not be in such a crisis as we are. It is incomprehensible that the Council of Justice is jumping into the air because of a special service at the Ministry of the Control of the Organisation of the Judiciary, because this service, as it also states in the law, will definitely be led by one of the elected judges who knows the field of work in this area, not by one of the State secretaries or elected by the political party. This service, which brings this control over the organization of business and the fulfilment of the criteria — I mean, can we understand why we would object? In order to require or control both the organisation and the implementation, to meet these criteria and to identify effectiveness in this area. You know, like everywhere, from the builder forward, in any trade, we have good and bad and clear, both in politics, in the judiciary and so on. I know quite a few honest, good, hard-working judges who don't have any backlogs working, and that's why they don't have any more. To get more work — yes; to get a reward — that is not the case. This law specifically states that this service, led by a judge, should not interfere with the presumption of innocence, then the secrecy of the judicial procedure and the guarantee of a fair trial. So, what more than that? Well, normally, it's perfectly normal, but it's just that the judiciary is about to start working. Of course, the greater responsibility of the President of the Courts is also required. This, of course, will also require his responsibility to do so and the possibility of finding out that things are not going to work out, including the possibility of his resolution. In short, let me say it again. There are some changes, but these are not reforms yet. I'll back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're changing the Law on Courts. In my opinion, it is a minor change, or you agree that we do not make too much revolutionary changes in this area, because we had revolutionary changes when the previous regime, communism, was established. Of course, these revolutionary changes have resulted in such a revolutionary judiciary, revolutionary judgments, mounted trials and long-term consequences for our judiciary and our country. We're still going through these terrible consequences. However, our judiciary, together with the prosecutor's office in 22 years of a state of its own, could, if it were able and able to have internal will and energy, create a normal situation in the field of justice. They had absolutely good options, but the consequences of this overthrow of the revolutionary judiciary were so severe that they poisoned large parts within the judiciary and that this infection might even spread during the period of independent Slovenia. When I say they had good opportunities and when we ask ourselves why our judiciary is not able to act consistently, effectively, to solve pending lawsuits as in comparative countries – I think that the Republic of Austria should be a comparative country with us. For hundreds of years ago, until the beginning of the II. World War II or to the end, we came from the exact same system that was a good system at European level. I think even in the old Yugoslavia, this court was kind of normal. It has opportunities and has also had in Slovenia. We have a relatively good law school, we have an extremely difficult legal exam. Let's face it, we who are from other professions, that when we follow some of the young lawyers who are doing this exam here, I also know other cases that this may be one of the worst trials in all areas. It exhausts brilliantly bright young people practically to the bone. I even think he's needlessly overweight sometimes. For the right should be directed at functional knowledge, but not merely at the renewal of what has already been graduated through the law college. Then these young people come to court. I believe I trust young lawyers, but something happens inside there, and something has happened to bring this efficiency down. I suppose this is due to this – we know how the previous system worked, that at times the judge received a letter: "Finish the case!" That after the war, if I mention only trials against farmers when they were being tried by a crowd, because the judge had everything prejudged — of course from the party authorities — how the farmer should be judged. When the judge did not have a decisive word when the so - called neighbours — at the time they were told — were the neighbors who had been extended the term of the regime. These things have left painful traces, I'm just wondering why the judiciary doesn't want to clean up. Against it, in a few years after the war between the courts, between the judges of the resistance, the silent resistance, they were not to allow themselves to be loud, for they would cost not only their jobs, but sometimes their heads. Today, however, we cannot claim that the judiciary is only willing to get out of these problems. As a result, these changes are also an attempt to improve the judicial functioning of the courts. I have told the Minister on several occasions that it is necessary to write a law that will absolutely oblige the courts of origin to judge, but not to return the trial. For this is also one of the worst culprits for the fact that our judiciary never completes trials, that, in particular, economic conflicts or economic crime do not come to an end and things get old. We still have these cases. In any case, they are kept in drawers by certain judges because they are more difficult matters. I hope that this special service introduced by this law will help, and some things will improve. She won't always be successful. It will also depend on the authorities, because not every authority is interested in an expediatory trial, in the resolution of legal disputes. Let's be honest, in Slovenia she ruled most of the time left and she was interested in delaying in courts, for obsolescence and this is still present. This is also a silent intention of the current ruling authorities, in particular the two largest parties protecting their economic exporters, which have led to the devastating consequences of this country. Earlier, a colleague from the largest party blamed politics for such a situation. If she was self-critical, thought of herself when she came out of court, directly from the courts, then she should be commended. Otherwise, it's creating fog. Those politicians who have been assigned a part of their career in the judiciary have the right to be self-critical of their own work. I agree with that. Others, at least in Slovenia, did not have these levers, and they do not have and are complaining that politicians are guilty – because of the pressures, by influencing these arguments simply do not hold, simply do not hold. [[...]] I must also say that colleague Potrata said that we are in our party against policy opening the door to specific issues. That's what we are, I hope, in principle, in all the parties. This can't happen. But I'm sure it happened recently in Maribor. You know, after we listened to the hearings in one case, I have to say that those hearings were already published and there was talk, and people from the courts were talking about what was in those hearings, and they were laughing at those hearings. It is true that a specific policy has opened the door to this particular issue, but I am not protecting any, but this should not happen. That's a violation. For they listened in court to hearings, which had little to do with a particular matter in large part. But we can understand the political objective of why this was done in court. We could have understood the political objective! Some personal interest in accounting within certain institutions, and perhaps some personal reasons, complexes, and such. But this door to a particular matter has obviously been opened, and such matters are more in Slovenia. This is due to the fact that some still think that they are still as strong as they were in the previous regime, that they can say that this process is to be completed — certainly, and this must be accelerated and exploited in a certain way. This can't be happening! We will support the Minister to take moderate steps to improve with this Minister. Just let him finally pass the law that will bind the courts, as I say, that they will have to decide 90 percent of the time on the case, that they will be so bold and brave and hardworking, because we know that if you put your judgment back in judgment, you avoid work, you don't have to do that much. Let them be so brave. I think that this should also be the primary task of the Council of Justice, the assistance of the Council of Justice to assess the judges on this basis, insofar as they are willing to close the case, to make their efforts, but certain judges who are permanently returning to the retrial, thereby delaying, rejecting serious work and so on. There is also selection within the judiciary, it can be done by the Council of Justice, it can already be done by the presidents of the courts, but all of this — if possible — has not been done well enough. They have not done well enough and, therefore, it is also necessary to make this thing possible with such legislative changes, and I hope that we will also have a future government in Slovenia that will stand for something that will not be seen as a manoeuvre, but that will see it as a serious approach to improving the judiciary. For there is also a need to say that our country unfortunately had what the Council of Europe and resolution 1096 had predicted in 1996. It says that if the basic former totalitarian system is not broken down, the risks of the transitional process are high. At best, there will be an oligarchy instead of democracy, so says the Council of Europe resolution, corruption instead of rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights. All three of them are happening in Slovenia! What was the farsightedness of the Council of Europe, but we had this resolution here on the tables in this house and the left defended it with all four. And it did not allow these germs to be decommissioned, and now we have a government of crime instead of human rights and corruption instead of rule of law. That's what we got! I now plead that you will not accept certain things that are universally accepted in Europe by such rejection in many other cases, only in Slovenia are not: they are old symbols, they are totalitarian methods and all that. It's time to look at this, now that we're a week before the holiday, when we started our own country. Are we also going to say that we are going on a separate Slovenia without looking at the old, surviving, outcast, discarded systems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. We have already heard several times today, and I also note this fact once again that confidence in justice is probably at the lowest level in recent years, so I am also pleased that Minister Plitschanič has acted so quickly and has made sure that in a short time the new Law on Courts and the new Law on Judicial Service, which we are considering today, has been prepared. I would suggest or recall some measures that lead to the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary. Above all, I am referring here to these powers transferred from the Ministry to the courts, some also to or above all to the President of the Supreme Court, whom we hereby impose on him greater responsibility, based on the greater authority given him by this law. For example, it is the competence to determine the number of courts, to monitor and identify and analyse the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the courts, which was previously the competence of the Council of Justice. Then one of the measures is the transfer of the appointment of the Director of the Court, formerly the power of the Ministry of Justice, which is now transferred to the President of the Court. This measure is justified by the fact that the Director of the Court is co-dependent with the President of the Court and therefore there has been a long-standing tendency to change this. The measure also worth mentioning is a measure for the management of central staff records transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and also for that purpose. Employees, both judges and administrative staff, are employed in a court of law and this is why, according to my opinion, this is a more appropriate arrangement. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in recent times, there have also been aspirations for politics to turn the door to influence justice. In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to the wish of some – the abolition of a permanent judicial mandate, which would allow policy to influence the independence of the judge in the performance of the judicial function. I believe that such an approach and such an approach is inappropriate, as it leads to the dependence of judges, and I find this inappropriate and strongly opposed to such a change. I therefore expect that the current measures that are prepared in both laws, as well as the other measures that the Ministry will prepare and, of course, also with a changed attitude towards work in the courts and in the judiciary, will obtain the full judicial branch of the government back to its seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor now, Mr Zvonko Černač is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u92	Dear, good-bye! It is true that we are adopting laws here, in the National Assembly, in 2009, when we adopted many positive changes, but some are still new, which is why we need this law to bring these new changes to life. Up to now, the organisation has been updated in court, new legislation has been adopted, a certain number of judges in individual courts have been adopted to reduce backlogs, a specialised section has been set up to take over very difficult cases, an extension of the powers of the Council has been adopted and could be listed. It is important for the Social Democrats to strengthen the independence of the judiciary. This autonomy is the most important thing for us. It is also a transfer of human resources powers from the Ministry to the courts, this has been achieved in this law. The quality increases, the supervision of the judicial administration increases, Articles 26 and new 65.a and 65.b. are also introduced by the supervisory service. It should probably be debated if this should be organised in the Supreme Court, but nevertheless this service will work and will have its seat at the Ministry of Justice and will be headed by an appointed judge. Here are some changes from that first draft of this new law. However, we must stress the urgent need for this service to have an interview with the President of the Court or the Director of the Court and the Chief of the Judicial Department, but not with the affected judge, because that would be the pressure on his decisions. Access to the courts must also be agreed, not only can this supervisor come and go to court, but it is also necessary to announce supervision before the President of the Court, agree on what the subject of the review will be and so on, as it is everywhere in the centre. However, the President of the Court must have the opportunity to review this report and also comment on the comments made on the findings of this service. When we talk about the supervisory service, however, there is nothing agreed on, and what other employees in this service do if they are, in particular, the level of education of these others, the direction of education and the required experience. Because control can only be performed by those who are somehow rated as the greatest expert. We with new laws, we have another one today, we interfere with the work of the courts. Such changes, however, are enormous and the problem of novelties must not be addressed as a rule. Laws need to be adopted in full, quality and these constant changes in laws, of course, make it difficult for the efficiency of the judiciary as well as administrative procedures in our courts. Inadequate legislative changes, however, cause errors in judicial proceedings and difficulties. I don't understand how it's possible that someone couldn't get a court-martial, but he showed up in court every day. What was this guy looking for at home when he wasn't here, for good? And so on. These are things that are very easy to resolve with some measures. However, the daily pressure on justice is understandable, as at last, those who are also guilty of the collapse of our economy are untouchable in the debate halls, including those who are suspected of corruption and so on. Then these are the uncles in the background who are pressing on justice to make a different decision. We must fight against this, that we will also consider individual decisions of the Court by name, by comment and by our findings – we are not judges, we are not experts, we do not know the file we are discussing, but we are vehement here and some allow themselves to be flat-rate assessments and this is damaging to justice. It is because these pressures on all who work in justice are extremely great that we expect all judicial workers and workers to be firm and to maintain their integrity; those who are weak are already mechanisms for those who will still be excluded from these services. For further consideration, this law will need to be further elaborated in some elements to be so good that it will be effective and work in justice will be easier, professionally and successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, you have the floor. Get ready, mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to all present from my side! Clearly, this awareness, which has been present in society and in the public for several years now, is that our judicial system is ineffective, that it does not reflect the needs of time, that it has not been able to adapt to the change of the system. Clearly, this awareness is also present in this hall or in a broader political sense. There are, however, certain nuances on how to remedy this situation. Some, unfortunately also the Minister of State, see a treatment with relatively mild resources, with some poorly completed reform, some of which is also part of this law, which we are currently considering, which unfortunately will not produce the desired effects or results. We, the statistics speak, have a pretty good standard in justice and in the prosecution, as regards human resources in the field of prosecutors, judges, where we are on average with comparable European countries, we have a million inhabitants, a double or multiple, something similar to the money we spend on this system, we spend twice as much money on a million people or on a judge or on a prosecutor as in comparable countries. Of course, we cannot measure in other areas in terms of efficiency, efficiency, responsibility, sanctions in cases where it is found that someone unfortunately does not meet the criteria that he should meet in order to be able to judge or accuse fairly. We have quite a few examples that say otherwise, and nothing has happened; even more, these people have even advanced to higher positions. We have judicial backlogs that are significantly longer than in comparable countries. We have a number of resounding cases, a number of resounding cases, where there were major injuries that had become obsolete, Satex, Elan, where the judge did not write a timely judgment and the case was outdated, Sicura and so on. We have many procedures, which are even worse, which have not even been started, and they are millions, 10 million, 100 million amounts, which we hear publicly through screens every day — and nothing happens! However, we have a lot of energy on the other hand, unfortunately, and this is obviously due to the fact that this system has not reformed since 1990, and not since 1995, when this judicial reform was made. However, we have a lot of energy and a lot of cases involved in the persecution of politically incompatible individuals. Thus, despite this human rights system being ineffective, it is bureaucratic, unfortunately not even self-reflective enough to be able to respond properly and responsibly when its articles make serious mistakes, when they accuse or even condemn without evidence, when they commit a wrong that cannot be corrected. We have a Foykar case. For 11 years, the prosecutor filed complaints against the sentences. Eleven years! Eleven years until finally the Supreme Court made a point on this and the case closed and the story closed, but this prosecutor is now the president of the District Attorney's Office in Nova Gorica. So, she's making progress. We have cases that say that this system allows the processing of insignificant acts that are not socially harmful. You have the case of one inn who, because of the wrong foresters, paid 4 000 euros in fines, and hundreds of similar cases talking about the penalisation of what is not socially harmful and recognised as very delinquency. On the other hand, you have cases of large fish being brought before a court by the police, for example, and then dismissed by the court, although in neighbouring countries, Italy, Serbia, they have been accused on the basis of the same evidence – I am talking about the Balkan Warrior and that Slovenia is clearly more visible than a drug group paradise because obviously the system is not capable of sanctioning and condemning the members of this chain. And, of course, we also have cases of inexperience, incompetence. I'm sorry, nobody's gonna tell me that someone can be tried in the toughest cases ten years after they finished college or passed a legal exam. It is only necessary to have some more experience and mileage elsewhere, not just in the courtrooms or in the courtrooms — pardons, not halls — so as to be tried in the most difficult cases. And here too is the problem of our legislation, because this threshold, in my opinion, is too low and allows uncritical recruitment in areas where it is very important and on which the reputation of our country, our justice, also depends. In short, because of all that I am talking about, it is also possible that abuses occur in the judicial system; therefore, it is possible that there may be a series of mounted trials; therefore it is possible that people may be accused, even without evidence – if they are already being accused without evidence, there is still but to be convicted without evidence, which means total erosion of law and justice and speaks of the fact that in Slovenia we have virtually no more justice and no rule of law, that we have a legal state written in a book, on paper that unfortunately we do not realize it through the decisions of the system. If we look 25 years ago, 25 years ago, in 1988, in the former regime, even then they didn't press charges, even though they were convicted without evidence. 25 years ago! That's when they left the dirty work of Janša, Borštner, Tasič and Zavrla to the court of another state, the military prosecutor and the military court. And there they made an effort to produce at least the evidence, but they did not accuse and judge without evidence. This means that we have fallen deeper than we were in 1988 in another country, which was not recognized as a democratic state, and this is now supposed to be, which means that our justice, both judicial and judicial, needs a comprehensive and thorough reform. Unfortunately, this amendment of the law cannot provide for this reform, since this novel means only more red tape, not less judicial bureaucracy, more judicial bureaucracy, on the one hand, means additional supervision by administrative officials to oversee judges, what they do, and on the other hand, the justice minister withdraws from that small part of the jurisdiction that he has in the judiciary and leaves the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts to the full judicial sphere. Then we do not need a Justice Minister, then we need one Registrar-General of the Courts to ensure that they are cleaned, empowered to have computers and that they can function normally, you do not need a Justice Minister in such cases if he does not hope to take responsibility for the policy in the field to be implemented. And that's why, of course, it has to have mechanisms. It can only have mechanisms in law on the basis of certain very clear rules. And, of course, we also need the court, the judiciary and the prosecution, who will lead the man in the highest cases, who will be aware of the problems that this justice and the prosecution face, and who will be able to bring about with their authority and position the process of this transformation, which will not be short, will last for several years, but this process will have to begin as soon as possible. We don't have that either. As a result, this novelty of the law, as said by Comrade Gorenak, will not harm, nor will it help. It is a shame that we are dealing with these things, wasting our time, precious times, when we should talk about fundamental changes in the reform that has obviously proved ineffective. 1. 1. 1995 has been well founded and since then this erosion in this system has taken place, which means that the reform that was then done must be known more than before for the inefficient and comprehensive reform of this system, so that independence, independence, expertise of those who are judges, those who are prosecutors, and their responsibility for what they are doing, on the one hand, and adequate control, as we know in all comparable European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u96	Madam Vice President! Fortunately, I have no personal experience with the courts, and I hope that I will not have them, but unfortunately we hear a lot of people's stories every day, a lot of writing in various media, and we know that something is very wrong in our Slovenia. This is also evident from the various lists that we are second to corruption and other things. Of course, I want our justice to be more effective, so I support these laws, these proposed amendments. I am also pleased that the Minister has said that there will be some changes in the agreement with the judiciary as well. With this, of course, I hope that they are also aware there that changes are necessary and we are obliged, both enforceable and legislative branches of government, to adopt as many amendments as possible in support of the judiciary, which will remove administrative obstacles if they are sufficient or not, which I cannot now judge, given what my predecessor has discussed, should not be sufficient, but I hope that these changes will lead to better results from the judiciary. Finally, every day we listen to various accusations, including criticism at the expense of the judiciary, and I believe that judges, or all who work in this branch, want to make it easier for them to work more effectively, but of course I hope that they will continue to work more professionally. But most of all, I would like to see people appointed to responsible positions who are indisputable professional authorities and also moral authorities. This is the last time I have highlighted this in the debate, because it is only by doing so that we will have greater confidence in the judiciary, because the laws themselves do not help us, we know they are always being used, but if we trust that we are equal before the law, then I think that confidence in justice will also gradually improve. In this society, we have all the responsibilities to ensure that this society, our country, is more friendly, so that everyone in it prefers to live in it, so that everyone can be more proud of it, each by his or her authority and by his or her functions. Of course, I would also like the judiciary to take full responsibility for its work, and I also welcome these proposals to increase the responsibility and supervision of those leaders, those responsible. After all, we Members are also controlled by our constituents, so to speak, and we, too, must reaffirm ourselves in the elections, or we no longer have a function, and I think it is also good that judges, courts, all those who are employed there are aware of this. Of course, we will support the laws and hope that this will also lead to an improvement in the situation in Slovenian justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Katrina Hočevar, behind her Jerka Čehovin and then Borut Ambrožič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, and welcome to me as well. Unlike some of the predecessors, I also believe that major changes are being made and are being pressured by peaceful steps. I think that is exactly what Minister Pličanič is doing in introducing changes to the Slovenian judiciary. In my opinion, we have two things to change in Slovenia. For the first time, to spend as much as we create, to build a stimulating economic environment and to restore confidence in the rule of law. It is too much for our citizens to feel that we are not all the same before the law, too much of this feeling of powerlessness and loss of confidence in the institutions of the rule of law. But it is a fact that in every system, in every organisation, the key to change in people is in employees. We can have the state-of-the-art building, the best information technology, including appropriate system solutions. We will not change matters for the better, nor in the judiciary, unless judges and prosecutors believe in these changes, internalize them and, in fact, with all their strength and best efforts, put them into practice. As the Minister has said, I am pleased that, for these changes, there is support in the group of Presidents of the Courts, and this gives us the hope that we can change the system for the better, because there is one critical mass of people if you want judges who are aware of the fact that matters need to be changed. Otherwise, the amendment of the Law on Courts pursues nine objectives. My predecessors have already gathered a few of them, but I believe that these changes can be a good tool to change things and that today's novels are the answer to problems in the judiciary that I think we all know now. These amendments, which are introduced by the amendment of the Law on Courts, would point out in particular this strengthening of autonomy, namely the transfer of certain powers from the Ministry to the courts, by having jurisdiction, but also by having greater responsibility. I welcome the introduction of a special court supervision service. I am pleased to see this step towards greater transparency, which is said to be the subject of a court notice board as well as an online schedule of judges, a schedule of hearings and orders. And I think that this will also be a good control by the citizens. What I think is a good step towards more efficient judicial staffing is the possibility that the President of the District Court of the District will now be able to assign an annual timetable to the District Court. For example, it has been in force in the Law on Public Servants for ten years, only through the annex to the employment contract can you be allocated from one ministry to another due to work needs. The following case, which is introduced by law and I have also found one balance sheet or one similarity with the Civil Servants Act, is the fact that the President of the Court will be able to resolve itself in the event that matters are not carried out in accordance with the rules, the delay or that the Court does not achieve the planned business results for two years in a row. We also have a provision in the Civil Servants Act to introduce incompetence procedures if a public servant reaches the worst annual evaluation for two years in a row. This already points to the fact that these last two cases, which I have said, are in fact only now in the judiciary that we are introducing changes that are already one in other systems, I will say, a constant. And I think that this delay must also be an incentive for the Ministry of Justice to make the following changes or to continue the reform of justice quickly and with bold steps. Since this area is run by Minister Plitschanic, I have no doubt that he will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Ambrožič is next and then Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, all present! Allow me to begin with my position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. I will abstain in this vote for a reason, because, like any matter or proposal, I see in this partly positive and partly negative consequences, just as the judiciary has actually reacted to the proposed proposal of the coalition. Those of us who have made a decision in our lives to follow the difficult path of legal education know how difficult it is to achieve the status of a judge – from the very study cycle to the difficult trials, which are conditioned by a high average, to reach the traineeship period in court as soon as possible, to the subsequent judicial examination and all other difficult steps that lead to the judicial function, which is, by the way, as well as many other professions in the Republic of Slovenia, not to be misunderstood, underestimated. Personally, I think that both those diligent and hardworking judges and those less diligent who may have been victims in these decades since independence continue to fall into a common bag because of the lack of adequate working resources, as they would have once expressed themselves, because I myself have had the opportunity to experience, when I was working in a court of law, that we have shared an outdated computer in a traineeship room, not to mention the computer programs that were available at the time. Today, of course, the situation is somewhat or half different, but our judiciary would still deserve both in the technical field and in the area of wage systemisation, as well as, of course, many other professions in Slovenia, great improvements. Personally, I think that this would also help to bring to bear the autonomy and independence of the judges mentioned today, which some see in particular in a completely different light by introducing this supervisory service. For these reasons, as I say, I will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj and then Dr. Ljubica Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support both laws, even though I feel the same way as my colleagues that they are too ambitious. As early as December, we talked to the Minister about these things, proposed a lot of things, and today we have something on the table. It is clear from the analysis that the backlogs do not decrease, but sometimes they even increase, although the courts do solve more important cases, they also solve a little more because the fallout is smaller, while the backlogs remain more difficult and older because it happens to gather easier files and get rid of them to correct statistics. This is bad for people who wait for justice. We hardly ever discuss the quality of our work in the judiciary. I judge myself, as my predecessor said, that some judges are good, hardworking and responsible. And they're the ones who don't do that. We received a letter a while ago, I think the minister, from the Maribor District Court, mentioning a whole bunch of irregularities, says that the minister did not respond to it, nor do they know whether or not any sanctions have occurred. Any such indication must probably be checked, even if it concerns allegations of mobile phones, disputed recruitment, etc. I think we should take these things very seriously. I think that, with some changes in the past, when we put the Presidents of the Courts and the Directors of the Courts in fact, we have given these gentlemen or ladies a very strong tool. However, I feel that they are not being served enough. Even now it is possible to assign cases to judges who are not so burdened, and a whole bunch of such things, but of course it requires a few more parts of the one who distributes such things. It's similar to control. Every morning, the President of the Court or the Director could check where things were, what was going on, whether something had moved or not, and if he had not, he would have acted. A whole bunch of these things in the legislation are already and are not being used, because it requires a little more work and a little more preparation for the one who has to control things in this way. According to the information we have, every fifth judgment in the complaint has also been annulled. For me, we should at least ask ourselves if it's a good job or a bad job. Not to mention what my colleague Jerovšek has already mentioned, that the court in the second instance, i.e. an appeal, may decide on the matter or cancel it and return it to the first stage, which is, of course, simpler. You don't have to go into the file like that. But if you want to make a decision, it takes a little more work. It should therefore, as a rule, be for the appellant to decide the matter, but not to return it to the first stage, which is what is happening to us as a rule. I don't think these things are right and we should change them. I could say something else, but there's not much time left. Maybe it's just that we're champions by number of judges, champions by default, and I'm sure that the judiciary should only go inside very thoroughly and propose things that they expect and that they could do better. You can't always make excuses for legislation. Things start and end with people who then implement this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, then Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Brecelj, colleague and colleague! If someone listens and analyzes our debates very carefully today, then it cannot be past the conclusion that most of the things have already been said in the debates on previous similar occasions, either in an extraordinary session or in other laws concerning the functioning of the courts, we have expressed the same expectations today. We have also heard about the same cases, some in detail, some as statements. So there is a great question of where it comes from and how long we will continue to cultivate this great dissatisfaction here in the National Assembly with what we expect from the judicial system, especially at this point in time from the courts. Our expectations regarding the laws being drawn up by the Ministry of Justice are obviously such that we are still waiting for something more important, a major reform, to make a major change. In her position, colleague Opec also pointed out that we are waiting for a major systemic change. So, on the one hand, our expectations are focused on big changes, on the other hand, we note today that we have before us a change of small steps or a rather small novelty, and that most of the key things related to the reform of the justice system, including from the early June signed commitment of the Supreme Court and the Government of Slovenia, are still awaiting us. So, on the one hand, this great expectation, on the other hand, warned legal experts, who, by quoting Dr Cerar from an interview with Primorska novice, says that our "problem is that the legislation is changing too quickly and often inadequacy, making it impossible for the judiciary to develop a sufficiently well-established case law". It is said that we are somewhere in the midst of understanding what the results or effects of what we accept here and what the judiciary can then do on the basis of the legislation adopted. I would point out one more thing that I am observing, although I am only here for half a year, that in every matter that we receive in connection with judicial matters, there is a conflict in the background between the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Justice. Whenever we received any law in this area, there was also a message from the Council of Justice to the Council of State that either there was not enough time for an in-depth professional discussion, or that the changes were not sufficiently systematic, or that they were not included in the debate. The Ministry of Justice has apparently tried to escape this conflict this time by assigning itself or setting up it at the Ministry of Justice. In fact, both independent reports on the functioning of our judiciary and some legal experts expect that the Council of Justice should exercise more control and that it should take care of the objective responsibility of people in the judicial system. Even in this conflict, we are obviously again seeking to avoid some public criticism of the situation that is hidden in this unresolved relationship with the Council of Justice, and this is also, of course, the question whether we will follow the direction of Greece, which says that we should have a law on the Council of Justice, or whether we may be looking more closely at the new law that we will be considering today, one day in the jurisdiction of the Council of Justice. Today, a colleague said very interestingly that we are champions in many matters concerning the courts, we are also champions at a point called the case, we have already talked about it, and I have already talked about it. We see that there is some disproportionate degree of distrust in the courts in our public, a lot of criticism. We have also succumbed to these criticisms and, on the other hand, a disproportionately large number of people are seeking justice in the courts. A million, almost a million a year belong to cases, of which almost a million cases have been solved, at the same time millions of bases, we will say that it makes sense that some other systems in our country do not work well if people think that in many things they will find a solution from probably non-systemic or inaccurate legislation right in the courts. And the fourth thing I would like to point out is the issue of political influence. Our fear with the Social Democrats is that, through the supervision service to be established at the Ministry of Justice, a political impact on the course of judicial proceedings could also be exerted under different governments in the coming years. Of course, we must understand, on the other hand, that judges are not people who are apolitical beings to live out of time and space, but they certainly have every political sympathy and their own political beliefs. I see the problem more likely to be the members of various political parties and the political influence of the judges is actually also taking place through this fact. I agree that both of these laws go forward, as well as the next one, which speaks of the new judiciary service, but I am aware that we have not yet given our citizens an answer to the need for a systematic change in the law on justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. It would be Mrs Janja Klasinc's turn, but she's not here. Mr Branko Ficko is first, then Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u106	Nice hello to you all! The situation in the judiciary is not satisfactory and changes are therefore necessary. Recent events have also shown this and need to be acted upon. Above all, the new commitment between the President of the Government, the Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court is the result of this amendment to the Law on Courts. This does not, of course, mean that there is a need to be headless and drastic interference with legislation. These are measures that will have positive effects. The reputation of the judiciary is not good and policy is responsible, especially the irresponsible behaviour of individuals. Some would, of course, like to prove that everything is mainly wrong on the basis of past clicks when they deal with individuals. The fact is that the situation in the judiciary is improving and legislative changes will also go in a positive direction. Several positive trends are also based on the 2012 analysis. In Positive Slovenia, we are aware of the situation in the judiciary that it is not optimal, and we are also aware that the independence of the judiciary does not yet mean independence from liability for errors. This novel also brings some key contributions to the strengthening of the judicial branch of government, particularly following the objectives of increasing efficiency, strengthening autonomy, increasing control over judicial administration and accountability, and in particular eliminating backlogs. Of course, I support the amendment of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, then mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I would also like to contribute to the debate on the situation in the Slovenian judiciary. In recent days, many critical words have been spoken over the weeks, and I think we may be one step closer, but that is not enough. I was particularly encouraged by the Council's opinion on the proposed amendments to the law, namely the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which opposes legal changes as we can all read. It draws attention to the opinion of the Consultative Council of European Judges of the Council of Europe and considers that the supervision of the work of judges should be carried out by the Council of Justice in order to ensure that the independence of the judiciary is ensured. I cannot agree with this opinion, however, because in the existing law, the Council of Justice has many powers under the current law, but I can say that in many cases it has not enforced them or enforced them underlyingly. Under Article 28 of the Law on Courts, the Council has the following powers: I will list only a few: propose to the National Assembly candidates for election in judicial office; propose to the National Assembly the discharge of the judge; appoint and dismiss the Presidents of the Courts other than the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia; determine the number of judicial posts in the individual court; monitor, monitor, analyse, analyse the efficiency and effectiveness of the proceedings; and adopt an annual report on the efficiency and effectiveness of the courts. I've only listed a few. The Council of Justice shall decide on the proposals for the election of judges, on the appointment and promotion of judges, on the classification in the salary class, on the complaints against the transfer decision, and may also list many of these. All of this was already in the hands of the Council of Justice. And I would only touch the very staff of the courts, because it is also in the hands of the judicial council. Many candidates who are almost inexperienced, both professional and life-formal, have been proposed for appointment to judicial posts. However, I stress what has already been said here today that we should be appointed judges of moral and professional authority. However, they are proposed by the judiciary in their election; their proposals are often, I can say, unusual. This is the case with candidates who may have proved themselves to be good students with extensive theoretical knowledge, but unfortunately with little knowledge, little practice and then somehow not the best in the courts themselves. Most importantly, no one is responsible for this choice of candidates. Under the motion for election, the Judicial Council or its President is signed, but I think that something needs to be changed here and that the members of the Judicial Council should also be asked about the very responsibility for their vote. How can we trust them, however, to ask the question if they have not done anything in their hands by now, and they would continue to have control of themselves. We could also talk here about one court, a district court, where it was through the judicial council that a young judge was appointed, I don't know, under thirty years old, without experience, and we actually meet with this court with the files going to the district courts in Trbovlje, to Vrhnika and I don't know what. I just want to know if anyone's gonna answer this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter. Then we're done with the debaters. If the government wants to hear from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mrs Iva Dimic mentioned the opinion of the Council of Justice. It seems to me that we should take into account what the Council of Justice has written down in its opinion on this bill. What's my point? I believe that the Council of Justice opposes swift and partial action in both of the laws under consideration. Quick and partial action. In my opinion, I said that in 2009, we had adopted, January 2010 or January 2011 had entered into force, and I always advocate that the law that has been amended has the opportunity to be tested in practice. And then we should draw to the debate on changes all those who can also tell from direct practice where the problems of law enforcement are and what could be improved. I do not see the possibility of a better, better-quality trial if we do not give a more valid profession and if we do not trust the profession. We have all become some sort of unfaithful Tomazzi, who in advance claim that something is not doing well. Some here have discussed in advance who will decide at a second stage on a complaint to which the SDS is very large. That's what we are. We have in our hands European documents, which are being interpreted manipulatively. And what it says is that we should prevent the influence of politics is that politicians are so gleaning on documents, they say roughly, but just so much that you can't say that they haven't read it in the document, but they put it in a completely different context and they get the data in a completely different way. I can't prove all the wrong things that have been heard today, but that's exactly what I'm talking about. If we are simply to say that there is a need to strengthen control, and this external control, to form a specific body that will carry out this control, yes, please, where it has ensured that the quality of the trial due to such external control will be better given that it will be carried out what they claim that this control in individual proceedings will not be allowed to interfere with the individual judgment. But what this external control can say has been said before. That the director or the president of the court will be here in the morning, and he'll ask where they work. Please! We also have professional ethics and professional dignity in every profession. It seems quite unacceptable to me that we should be dealing with a group of completely irresponsible people, who the boss has to examine in the morning, what they will do and what they will do. This reminds me of the old times that you all want to forget when they wanted to be present in the workplace to ensure better quality in social activities, such as education. It's important how long you've been in school, from morning to two, and that's about the quality of your job. That's not true. They abandoned this because they found that the whole type of thing could not be realized in this way. And I think we should do some self-reflection in the National Assembly. In order to wet so much self-reflection and ask ourselves what laws we adopt and how we adopt. And those who rely on the responsibility of the Council of Justice which proposes. Yes, we choose them in the National Assembly, judges! What our responsibility is, then, for many things should be asked. So I object to the flat-rate attack on the judiciary, but I think it is very serious, if the representatives of the Council say, but we have heard that they do not perform their functions, it has been said that if we are warned that changes should be adopted on the basis of an in-depth professional debate involving the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and experts in the field of constitutional law. And when I read this, I also see the proposal of that European document, or so is the conclusion of the document, which some are so keen to refer to, in which it is finally written to be organised, I think that on 21 and 22 November this year a top conference will be held to discuss top experts, all stakeholders, all legal professions on what should be done in order to achieve the final objective, which is to raise confidence in the judiciary. And I don't see that the kind of debate that we've been going to at the State Assembly for some time at an emergency meeting, at an emergency meeting yesterday, on issues, today, giving it back to anyone and giving them a chance to get their trust back. All they can see is that we are standing on two shores, that no one trusts anyone, and that it is probably best if we by another we can pour our discontent, not to say hatred. It is impossible here to go beyond what the Council of Justice is proposing and it is also stated here that a working group will be set up following the commitment to set up strategic orientations for the development of the judiciary. And I want to wait for it and then change the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Can I help you? Please, Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Since the debate has repeatedly pointed out that legislation should be regulated, reordered so that, at the second stage, a decision is taken and the matter is not returned to the first stage, I would like to clarify that the present Law on Judicial Procedure in Article 355 prevents the return of cases to the first stage. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Supreme Court insists on second-degree hearings in its decisions. So much for an explanation. As for the rest, taking into account the fact that principled support for both novelties has been given, at this time it would not provide further explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We still have some time to discuss, so I ask all those who would like to discuss this in order to sign up for the debate. The application is open. Three panellists have been reported. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In fact, I must respond to the words or I am pleased that Mrs State Secretary has made it clear that the Judicial Procedure Act in Article 355 prevents return to a lower-ranking court and judgment and that it is being judged. Now I don't know – do the media create one climate when they report? I mainly follow a number of important processes when the High Court or even the Supreme Court does not judge and re-judge. This is, in my opinion, the main problem. I think the Supreme Court should have all the authority and expertise to judge. And if we got caught a little better by the Indians, then fewer complaints would have come to the Supreme Court if the complainants had known that all the Sudanese were very precise and that there was a high-quality judgment on the lower Infants, that there was no chance of success. In my personal opinion, too many cases are being referred back to re-judgment and there is a renewed burden on the lower instances, a huge amount of time, probably even the defendants find new twists and thus the judiciary is blocking. Now I must say, as my predecessor Mrs Potara quoted the position of the Council of Justice and somehow disputed with the Members, I don't know which, because I didn't listen to all of them not to give, they don't anticipate any more difficult professions. I think that, so far, the Council of Justice and the judiciary have had more than enough opportunities to decide exclusively within the profession and that their profession would propose solutions that would work, which would then probably not have had any comments today and would not have given the Minister the idea that he would change anything. If the team wins, they don't change it, both in sport and in the judiciary, as in the economy and everywhere. Problem is, our teams are losing. And even a team of judges generally loses before the public, does not win, but has had more than enough opportunities in their own profession to send amendments. And I don't think that fellow Members and Members have any great pretensions to design themselves, I don't know what solution. Last but not least, in other subjects, there was more interest in the debate than in the topic of justice, which we can see today. I had the feeling that my colleague Potrata was very flat-rately politicising and referring to European documents, saying that they were wrongly summed up in the debates between Members and Members. I guarantee myself that I have accurately quoted the dictatorship in Council of Europe resolution 1096 on the necessity of decommissioning the heritage of totalitarian communist systems. And once again, the danger of a failed transition to democracy is that, if this decommissioning is not done, the oligarchy will rule instead of democracy, corruption instead of rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights. And we can say that the world of Europe was prophetic in the case of Slovenia. We didn't break down the previous system, and what they predicted happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm actually going to do a little bit more of a response to what some people are, with all due respect for Members, but I have to use the term, cheat. There Mrs Porotat said that some do not respect the courts, do not want to go to the hearing and that the issue of the seriousness of the certificates is raised. Well, if we're Members now that we're looking at another diagnosis, then we've come a long way. I don't think we have any right to check medical records, but we really don't know anything there, except that you have left or right rib pain. And now the fact that individuals do not respond to court calls has, of course, flown to the president of our party. If Mrs Porotatova knew that there was no obligation in the District Courts to be present at all, if she did not make evidence against you, she would be right. In addition, he apologized when he was absent at the time of his leadership and, of course, the judge accepted the apology because she would have acted differently. In short, there's a little bit more to know about justice before we sell some science. Mr. Zanoskar says the situation is improving. Yeah, it's getting better, just too slow. In 1991, justice was put in place, and until 2013, except that we have new laws, it works the old way. And even when we have new laws, let's say about dangerous animals, I'm talking about February 4, 2010, the judge doesn't take the new law into account, but he takes the old man into account, he's wrong. But it was nothing. It was a judge for Mr. Zalar, brother of the then minister. There was also talk about this, Mrs Porotatova said that more powers were given to Mr Masleša. Yeah, well, we don't disagree. It is only right that he has more powers, only that he does not exercise the current powers. Then he's out of touch, then it's pointless if he doesn't exercise his current powers. Of course, she sang her praises again to a permanent term and cannot, in fact, be taken away from the term of office. We can talk about how we're going to fix it. Another European document needs to be read, and it would be very useful in such matters. The pressure on the judiciary is, of course, terrible for Mr Brulco. I don't know what kind of pressure he was talking about. If we comment on certain judgments or if we are critical of them because taxpayers pay for their mistakes, it is not pressure, but it is a warning that they start to do a little better. I also do not agree with what someone has said, I think that Mr Ficko, who says that politics is the first one to be responsible for the state of justice. Yeah, that's not true. That's not true. The first ones responsible for the state of justice are the judges. And the first responsible among them is Mr Maslesha not only can he implement laws. As they are, he can come to Parliament or to the Minister at any time and say, "I need a different law here, I need a different regulation there, go to Parliament, accept the law, so that I can work better and be better in charge of the court." Even he can do it, and he's never been. Even when the minister wants to change something, he resists it, because it's supposed to be studied and proven scientifically, only then can we change A to B into some kind of law. Why is that? In order for us to go before they do, it is clear, then new Members will come and again this mantra will be able to continue on their independence. No, I still think it is necessary, as I said in my opening act, to root out justice. This does not mean their independence, but rather their work, their responsibility and the implementation of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. More mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Human wisdom says you can lead a horse to water, but you can't force it to drink water. What am I trying to say? That we can force humans to commit certain acts, not all acts. Of course, it would make sense to take into account the position of the Council of Justice, which says that such forced solutions without the consent of the Council of Justice will not be successful. In fact, I wonder – for at least 10 years we have certainly been doing wrong, proof is a bankrupt country – what we will now do with such rapid procedures. We work quickly, quickly, quickly in all areas. And a mistake. That's how it usually happens. It would therefore make sense, however, to take into account the position of the Council of Justice and, in addition to the Supreme Court's participation, to cooperate with the Parliament and the Council of Justice. Only coordinated solutions, solutions where all participants are taken into account, are good solutions. I'll ask you something else. What will we do — judges are autonomous, what will we stand next to them, what will we beat them to judge, or what will we do? You know that's not going to work. That's not working. Intellectual work requires a respectful approach. And at least what it is, you have to invite the person you're writing the law to cooperate and respect. This is the key in all areas. We write a law on agricultural land, and we ignore farmers, we write a law on judges, and we take the judiciary into account. The result is bad legislation, and then we change the laws, as we bake jams, about that. Each government comes with some original solutions, since the previous government has been working poorly and so on. In fact, it is not about the former government, but it is about the state of the spirit in this society. We do not take each other into account, nor do we who are Members, because if that were not the case, then the Council of Justice would cooperate equally in the search for good solutions. Today there have been quite a few good debates, and Mrs Potter has also pointed out in a long debate the substantive dilemmas of adopting this law. There is nothing else we need to do, just include the Council of Justice, try to take as many comments as possible, and I think we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th agenda or at the latest at 21.50. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on judicial service. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of 22 Members and Members, with the first signed Maša Kocipe, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. Complementary explanation. I'm sorry. In order to further explain the draft law, the representative of the Government, Mrs Tina Brecelj, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a new Law on Judicial Service, together with the Law on Courts, constitutes an indistinguishable whole legislative amendment. If the new Law on Courts is focused on changes relating to the administration of justice, the amendment of the Judicial Service Act is intended primarily for the amendment of the work of a judge. In addition to the minor amendments linked to the amendment of the Law on Courts, with regard to the transfer of powers from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court, the most important part of the reassessment of the judicial service and a different method of official control over the work of the judge. With regard to the assessment of the judicial service, the situation shall be better governed when the Court of Justice does not confirm the assessment of the judicial service from which it appears that the judge does not correspond to the judicial service. In this case, it will be considered that the personal council responsible for assessing the judge’s work must determine whether or not the judge fulfils the conditions for progress. If the two successive evaluations show that the judge does not meet the conditions for progress, the amendment provides for a reduction in wages of up to 20% for a period of up to one year, and the referee is deprived of the title. The penalty shall be proportionate to the sanction on disciplinary proceedings. The Institute of Official Control of the Court of Justice is also being renewed, with a view to determining the fulfilment of judicial duties and covering all measures to address the causes of the inadequate scope, quality and expertise of work and possible backlogs at work. The Minister of Justice will be able to request official controls, of course on the basis of a reasoned request, and the supervision will have to be carried out by the President of the Court or the President of a directly higher court. A report will be drawn up on the findings and measures of such control. If the Minister of Justice, as the applicant, does not agree with the findings and measures of official control, he will be able to request an assessment of the judicial service to the extent covered by official controls. According to the law in force, the Minister was unable to request an assessment of the judicial service, which means that the control mechanisms had not achieved their purpose and remained only a dead letter on paper and irregularities were consequently not sanctioned. In the context of greater efficiency of the judiciary, the possibility of deploying district judges to work before a district court is introduced, as has already been mentioned today if this is necessary in order to achieve the quality criteria for the work of the court. Such judges who will participate in the work of the District Court, i.e. in the management of matters of this Court, will be subject to their work, i.e. more difficult work, in the assessment of the Judicial Service and subsequent progress. To conclude, I would like to stress once again the importance of the package of both laws, as, in addition to the adoption of the new insolvency law, they are important milestones and a major step forward towards increasing the effectiveness of the judiciary. These two novels are, we estimate, one step towards increasing the confidence of our citizens in the functioning of justice. In my head, I have information that in Finland, for example, the confidence of citizens in the work of justice is 80%. The vast majority of citizens are fully satisfied with the functioning of their justice and we want to face such a goal. In view of everything, I propose that the proposals of the two novels, in this case the amendment to the Judicial Service Act, be supported and decided that both, i.e. this amendment to the Judicial Service Act, are suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are now really moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. The Group of Social Democrats and Mr Mirko Brulc are next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u122	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me just say in the introduction that we will support the proposed decision that the amendment of the law is appropriate for further consideration. The Ministry of Justice has the possibility of overseeing the work of a judge on the basis of the applicable Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts. He may propose an assessment of the judicial service by means of judicial review measures, through the Institute of Judicial Administration, the Minister responsible for Justice shall also exercise official control over the work of the courts through the Presidents of higher courts or the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister of Justice shall exercise official control over the work of the courts through the Presidents of higher courts or the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this measure, the Minister may request the President of the Supreme Court to provide information on the conduct of the courts, the work of the Director or the President and to provide written explanations on the performance of the individual tasks of the judicial administration. The Minister may also, through the Court's review measures, propose a procedure for determining disciplinary responsibility for judges and also propose the official supervision carried out by the President of the Court on a mandatory basis, but may also propose it as an official supervision carried out by a directly higher court. In practice, it has been shown that such an assessment by the proposer is that the legal options are ineffective since more than half of the proposals for the supervision of the work of the individual judge were rejected in 2012. We cannot, nor can we assess whether refusal to control the work of an individual judge has been justified. However, we can ask ourselves whether the monitoring proposals were justified. In its assessment of the situation, the proposed amendment states that 8 controls were proposed in 2012. One was carried out on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, three were carried out by order of the court and four were rejected. Is that a reason to change the law? Social Democrats do not want to justify the mistakes of the judiciary, because we always want and strive for a successful and effective judiciary of authorities that will act in accordance with the Constitution and legislation. This novel also means aligning with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, so the Social Democrats will act equally in this novel, and I will support the decision on appropriateness. Further, we will examine further how the provisions in question for us to correct or eliminate doubts that right-wing politicians do not open doors to judicial proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you, Vice President. I will continue where I have finished — under the Law on Courts. Both laws are, in fact, extremely linked and form part of the judicial reform. In addition to the government's systemic solutions in the National Gazette, we support and welcome the commitment signed aforetime by the Government and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and is dedicated to all citizens and citizens, a commitment that has been committed to the people in order to ensure that the government and the judiciary assumes every part of their responsibility to improve the current situation. The document represents a concrete commitment of the executive and judicial branches of power to citizens to ensure that each person is able and in accordance with his or her powers to ensure more effective functioning of the rule of law. The two parties agree that they must take on each part of their responsibilities with a common objective of ensuring greater efficiency of the judiciary. It is clear from the signed undertaking, but the situation also reminds us that legislative changes are needed, and we therefore support these changes in the National Gazette, which are aimed at increasing the efficiency and independence of the judiciary, enhancing the quality of control over judicial administration and increasing the responsibility of the judiciary. In order to increase the responsibility of the judiciary, all courts undertake to implement projects that have positive effects, such as the Triaž and Lukend project, and to set new time standards, namely shorter time frames, which will be in agreement with the Ministry of Justice. The efficiency of the judiciary will also be positively affected by greater autonomy of the judiciary when certain powers are transferred from the Ministry to the judiciary. The main focus of the solution is that the supervision of the functioning of the judiciary is solely for the control of the functioning of the judiciary and not for any interference with the substantive functioning of the courts or individual judges. The Courts' Supervisory Service will thus prepare reports to which courts will respond with reports on the resolution of possible irregularities. Then, as a form of extreme action, the Supervisory Service may propose to the Judicial Council the discharge of the President of the Court. It is imperative that the Presidents of the Court assume greater responsibility in the management of the cases of the judicial administration. The President of the Court may therefore be dismissed in cases where the case of a judicial administration does not comply with the rules, the quality criteria of the work of the courts or the irregularity, and in cases where the court fails to achieve the planned business results in accordance with the annual work programme for two years. In addition to the domestic public, which is justifiably dissatisfied with the functioning of the rule of law, we are also reminded of this by the European Commission in the last report of March 2013. Therefore, it is appropriate to say that this year's National Reform Programme stands and at the same time commits the Republic of Slovenia to regulate the area of judicial backlogs. How ambitious are the objectives set out in the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The current resolution of the case in the District Courts lasts on average 13.2 months, the expected duration is 9 months, which is a much more ambitious expectation, the solution of justice in the District Courts 15.2 months, the expected time of solution after the new 11.5 months. The economic cases in the district courts of the current 14.2 month, now 30 % of the cases are to be resolved within two, three months and the rest of the year — a significant leap, a social dispute in the work and social court of the average of 12.4 months, now the target of 9 months and a criminal case in the district courts of the average of 18.3 months, now 12 months after the legal authority of the indictment, the district courts are to be resolved within six months, the higher courts of civil appeal of an average of 4.6 months, the economic case of 4.7 months, now a substantial leap – only three months should be resolved. The number of pending cases is expected to decrease 3% per year in 2013 and 2014 and to resolve the violations now in 10.4 months, with a target of 6 months. It is worth noting that our Slovenian courts solve about a million and a half cases a year, given that the higher courts cancel around 10 to 15% of all cases in the courts, this means that the quality of the trial is, in fact, appropriate to some extent, and we only hope that the time-limits and all of this will not go to the burden and to the detriment of the quality of the trial. It may also be that they would not only criticize the judicial branches of power, but also criticise the legislative ones. About eight hundred laws are in force in the Republic of Slovenia, and they are adopted and amended about one hundred per year. We know 300 different crimes and ten thousand crimes, so we can actually imagine what jungles of rules actually have to be judged by the courts. As it is said, everything is not wrong in the court, we have a court that works. Our ambition and ambition together is that this judiciary will work better. As far as I can tell, it's much better. In fact, the Civil Code announces support for legal changes and we will vote in favour of the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts that they are suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. Jasmina Opec is next on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. When we face a number of reports from various European institutions and local experts in recent months that, despite the large budget for justice and despite the largest number of judges per hundred thousand people in the Member States of the European Union, our justice is not effective and contributes negatively to economic growth, questions are also raised as to what we need to change in order to make the situation better. Given that we have the highest number of judges per hundred thousand in the Member States of the European Union, we cannot avoid the issue of the quality of our judges. How is it possible that, despite such a number of judges, we have so many pending cases, so many complaints, so many long-term proceedings and so many pending lawsuits before the European Court of Justice for an unreasonable trial? The quality of the judiciary would also be expected to grow along with the quality of judges. Unfortunately, statistics and facts show that this is not always the case. We cannot avoid such issues as how to increase the efficiency of the court and the quality of judicial work. And what kind of judge would be a good judge? The good judge is supposed to be embellished mainly by two qualities, quality and responsibility. However, a quality and responsible judge is not created by the Faculty of Law and not by legislation. Quality and responsibility are, in particular, qualities that grace a good judge in a natural way. Surely there are very good judges in our judicial system, but unfortunately there are also those who forget their responsibility and neglect the quality of their work. Unfortunately, it is precisely because of this reality that we need to think today about legal changes in order to exercise the greater responsibility of the judge and his work. Today's package of two laws is based on the establishment of a greater responsibility of the judiciary, the transfer of certain powers from the executive to the judicial authority and the increase of responsibility for these powers. In addition to transferring the powers of administration of personnel from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court by combining individual staff records, the expansion of the possibility of mobilising the functions of the new Law on Judicial Service brings in particular more effective implementation of the official supervision of the judge's work and tightening the provisions relating to the evaluation of judicial work. In particular, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the amendment which provides for a more effective and clearer definition of the way in which the official supervision of the work of the judge is carried out, in particular in order that the President of the Court must respect the applicant's reasoned request and carry out official controls to the extent required. According to the proposal for an amendment, the situation is also better regulated when the Court of Justice does not confirm the assessment of the judicial service from which it follows that the judge does not correspond to the judicial service, as it will be considered that the personal council should re-examine the assessment of the judicial service and determine whether the judge fulfils the conditions for progress or not. In the case of two successive assessments of the judicial service that the judge does not meet the conditions for progress, a new provision is now made for a reduction in wages of up to 20 per cent, which may last for one year. As far as is known, in current practice, judges have made progress despite an unconfirmed assessment of the judicial service. Members of the Slovenian People's Party expect that increased controls will actually come to life, that they will also actually be carried out in practice, that not only the letter on paper in the crow spirit will not exclude the eyes. Something else about raising the age limit for judges from 30 to 35. As already mentioned today, good judicial work requires quality and responsibility, which are completely independent of age. However, if we have to think about a certain criterion, a more appropriate working time for an individual and his work experience would be as a criterion for the appearance of a judge, since there is certainly a difference in experience between a lawyer who is a graduate at the age of 23 and a graduate at the age of 30. And as we are already talking about the regulation of the electoral system in judicial office, let me mention once again here that a debate should be opened on an experimental judicial mandate that would change after a certain period and fulfil certain criteria and standards into a permanent judicial mandate. Only in this way will we achieve that the most fundamental interventions into human life will be decided by the most qualified to do so, thereby giving greater value to their proclamation on behalf of the people. Nevertheless, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Opec. The DeSUS Group and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat are next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, hello, everyone here. Your Honor! The purpose of the amendment to the Law on Judicial Service is, in particular, to comply with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, which we have already discussed today. On the basis of the practice of the higher courts and the Council of Justice in carrying out official controls, the Ministry of Justice noted the need to amend legislation in this area, as the existing legislative options proved to be ineffective in particular in 2012, when half of the controls proposed by the Ministry were rejected. The transfer of certain powers from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is proposed as the top of the judiciary, the merger of the central staff record and the personal records of the judges, the transfer of records to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the more effective implementation of the official supervision of the work of the judge. In particular, more effective implementation of the official supervision of the judge's work is aimed at ensuring that the President of the Court must respect the applicant's reasoned request and carry out official controls to the extent required, taking into account the prohibition of interference with the independence of the judge in the performance of the judicial function. The bill introduces new developments regarding the standstill of the judicial function and the tightening of the provisions relating to the evaluation of judicial work, which we particularly support in the DeSUS Group. The solutions proposed are better regulated when the Court of Justice does not confirm the assessment of the judicial service, which shows that the judge does not correspond to the assessment of the judicial service, as it is considered that the personal council should re-check the assessment of the judicial service. The Personal Council will have to determine whether the judge meets the conditions for promotion or not. The bill follows the objective of strengthening the independence of the judiciary and is also better placed than the legislative and executive branch of the judiciary, while also aiming to improve the effectiveness of the judiciary. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Service Act is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Your Honor! "Independent justice is a condition for ensuring the rule of law. Only in such an arrangement can legal certainty be expected for all citizens." This is how we wrote in the New Slovenia electoral programme for the current term of office. In doing so, however, we stress that this status also brings great responsibility to the judiciary. Responsibility in terms of swift, just and effective work, as well as responsibility for their self-control. Justice, not one of its tasks so far, but we can say it's not a job. We are surprised to learn that the courts and the Council of Justice have rejected as much as half of the required official controls on the work of the judge proposed by the Ministry of Justice. We are even more surprised at the explanation of such rejected controls. The explanation is as follows: the Ministry of Justice should state in the request the specific irregularities of the work of the judge and should the court allow the supervision. Only the flat-rate indications cited by the Ministry from the media content are not sufficient. We are wondering how the Ministry should ever come up with such specific information. It could come to him or not under official supervision of the work of the judge. Such decisions by the courts and the Council of Justice shall not contribute to the protection of the independence of the judge and the courts. If the judge were to act lawfully and correctly and this would be demonstrated and confirmed in the findings of official controls, there would be no doubt about the work of the individual judge and the court in general. Thus, their decisions give us the impression that the judiciary is defending control and protecting the poor and slow work of judges. In most cases, it has proved to be completely ineffective. It is most often only with a brief report from the President of the Court that errors have not been identified or that there are objective circumstances, such as delays in the proceedings or absence of judges, congestion and the like. Without any real measures to eliminate irregularities or slowness. And so this institute, we can say, has not produced any results. The existing system of control over the work of judges can be said to be ineffective. Not so much because of inadequate legislation, but because of non-implementation or even non-implementation of control rules. The legislative basis for the supervision of the work of judges needs to be tightened and, above all, the consistent implementation of the rules in practice should be ensured. Even so, good legislation does not help if it is not implemented in practice, and the responsible judiciary is alone. The current amendment of the Judicial Service Act actually strengthens the independence of the judiciary, in particular the position of the Supreme Court. A number of powers are transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court, such as determining the number of judicial posts in individual courts, conducting the procedures for the selection of judges, maintaining the staff records of judges and so on. Of course, by strengthening the role of the courts, in particular the Supreme Court, they also assume greater responsibility. We stress, in terms of importance and responsibility, the responsibility for the work of the entire judicial system, in particular the President of the Supreme Court. We expect that the Supreme Court, which will have a review of the work of all courts and, in particular, all judges on the quantity and quality of their work, through the consistent use of the institutions and instruments at its disposal, will ensure significantly better, faster and more efficient work in individual courts, and in particular that the judiciary within itself will be able to carry out the necessary self-assessment and self-cleaning, for which there has been no readiness so far. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u132	Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister of State and Secretary of State! As many representatives of the parliamentary groups have already said before me, the Judicial Service Act represents the second part of today's package to improve the efficiency of the judiciary and follows the objectives set out in the coalition agreement, as well as the objectives of the commitment signed 10 days ago by the President of the Government, the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Courts, which we discussed earlier, by increasing the jurisdiction of the judiciary, in particular the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, is primarily a tool to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, to increase the control of the judiciary and to increase the responsibility for the work of the judiciary. On the other hand, the Law on Judicial Service, which we are currently considering, is a tool to introduce greater control over work and exercise the responsibility of individual judges. In doing so, it should be stressed that, as in life, not everyone is as good or as bad in the judiciary. I myself know many excellent judges and some very bad judges. Who are one and who are others is also perfectly clear in the judiciary, and when the judiciary only begins to respect the highest standards of professional activity and to exclude from its own kind those who are not honored or even disgraced, then the reputation of justice as a whole will be increased. Today, for the rule of law and the judiciary have an extraordinary weight in their efforts to solve the problems posed by social development. The judicial backlogs, inappropriate conduct, low reputation of the judiciary and other parts of the judiciary and a number of other indicators are clear indications that changes are indeed necessary. On the other hand, at the same time, it is not possible to forget that in the media we rarely find stories of successful completion of the trial, but if we already track it, it does not pay half as much attention as the case that a mistake has been made, or when it comes to a case where, for example, the case is obsolete. If we look at how many reverberators a year appear in the media, especially those who leave behind a bitter taste of error, it is still important to remember that there are only a few cases of a total of one million one hundred and twenty-eight thousand two hundred and sixty-six cases, as received annually in the court's resolution, the data is for 2012. Thus, in the public opinion, the impression is that the judiciary continues to make mistakes and that the epilogue is a media story that is contrary to the expectations of the public is unsuccessful or unexpected due to judicial errors. As a result, the public also creates an opinion that judges are so independent that they are not subject to any control and that they are also independent of the mistakes they may make, which, of course, is not true. Judges are subject to strict judgements in their decision, both in terms of monitoring the correctness of the decision by insolvency courts and through regular assessments and verifications and through strict provisions of the Judicial Service Act. All possible populism allegations of fearsome and unlimited protection enjoyed by judges, so they do not drink water, can be compared to other judges due to inadequacy for work even at work. Such legislation already foresees a number of options for rewarding good and sanctioning bad judges, only to be used. And precisely because of the strengthening of this area, we have before us the new Law on Judicial Service, which brings some key contributions to this strengthening and control of judges. The competence of the management of personnel is thus transferred to the Supreme Court, which represents the top of the judiciary and must be the one with the powers and responsibility for the successful management of this branch. A more efficient and clearly defined way of carrying out the official control of the work of the judge is also laid down, in particular to the effect that the President of the Court must respect the reasoned requirement and carry out the required controls to the extent required. As my colleagues have already said before me, there have been many cases in the past where the supervision requirements have been rejected and the reasons have not been clearly explained. In this regard, I would also like to point out that it is crucial for Positive Slovenia that all supervision of the judiciary remains within the judiciary and that the amendments to the provisions on control are by no means an interference with the independent judiciary, since the supervision will still be exercised by the President of the Court and not by the Minister. The novel makes it clear only when such control really has to be carried out. This arrangement respects the principle of the division of power in a consistent manner. The principle of the division of power plays a very important role, providing for a system of checks and balances, brakes and balances where individual branches of government not only cooperate, but also monitor, which means dispersion of power, ensures separation and balance, and allows for mutual control. In doing so, it should also be stressed once again that the independence of the judiciary cannot mean independence from responsibility for errors or independence from the cause of the misrepresentation of the judiciary in the public. The amendment also tightens the provisions on the assessment of judicial work, which has been said a lot, but would only repeat itself that, due to a poor assessment, the judge may also be punished by reducing his salary by, say, 20%, and any further negative assessment may reduce his salary for the next payment grade. In Positive Slovenia, we are therefore convinced that the novel before us, together with the novel already under consideration, represents a step in the right direction and provides a basis for improving the reputation of the judiciary in the public eye and can even strengthen it. More than that, the legislative branch of the judiciary cannot offer. As you have already found, the reputation can only be restored by itself, and we can help him by adopting appropriate legislation and by stopping constantly criticising him and sometimes even politicising and politicising his weak points. As we say, in Positive Slovenia we will also support the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. This concludes with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. The first is Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much. There has also been a lot of talk about the fact that I think that the impression in the public should not be wrong, that the judges are not, in fact, subject to any compensation or criminal liability. It's not like that. Indemnity also follows judges as well as everyone else. It is also a matter of compensation being paid for an unreasonable trial and it also seeks specific liability and, in fact, regressive claims also require damages from judges. Secondly, there is a general liability for compensation when an institution causes some damage by unlawful conduct and is also sought with a regressive claim for specific liability. As far as criminal liability is concerned, the article referring to it would quote: "A judge who knowingly violates the law or distorts the right to harm or unjustifiably give the party an advantage in the course of the proceedings shall be liable to imprisonment for up to three years. The same shall be the case with a judge who, with a view to bringing the judgment referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article to facts which he knows do not exist or are falsely instigated with false or unlawful evidence." This is this legal norm, this is this article, which makes it possible to prosecute judges specifically. We have a number of cases in the public and in politics, and it is so easy to cite them when we evaluate them both in politics and in the media, how illegal the judgments are, how biased they are, how criminal they are, and yet, according to my information, no criminal proceedings against judges are against a specific crime. At this point, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as other users of the services of these courts, have the possibility to bring criminal charges in such cases, if any, against an illegal, biased or unfair trial, and the prosecution must investigate matters. Of course, the second question is whether we are using this and what the fates of these criminal proceedings are if these procedures happen. All I'm warning you is that there are mechanisms, but I have a feeling that people don't use them. And even in this way, we could put a judge in office if he deserves it. Thus, if there is no complaint, there is no process and the matter can be stopped in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič is next, then Tonin and Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u136	Good-bye! So this is a package of twins of these two laws, which we talked about earlier, namely the courts, now about judicial service. The purpose of all of this is to ensure that judges work as independently, fairly, justly and as reasonably as possible in order for the Council of Justice to have more responsibility and self-control over the work of judges. I expect that this will also affect changes in decision-making at the second stage, more substantive than the return to the first stage. For the last time in the debate, when we had a special meeting of the National Assembly on the judiciary, I was talking about quite a few notorious cases from the history of our young country. This means that it has not all started today or recently, but unfortunately this negativity, such a misdemeanour, unreasonable deadlines and dishonesty remains with the judges from the very beginning. Of course, this is due to certain things that have not happened after independence, and this leaves scars mostly because of this, so most of the negative consequences are felt by those who are today unemployed, who are on the verge, by many also because of the failure of the judiciary at the edge of survival and by a number of good companies or by a small company has also been bankrupt due to the failure of the judicial authorities. Remember when I spoke about Judge Šubic, who was the perpetrator of the duty of the Court of Kranja, and for more than eight months he did not write a judgment concerning Elan when the Director and the Financial Director were convicted of 28 criminal cases. So this was all done. All the authorities did so, and then, believe me, even with others, both with criminals, then in the service of social accounting, prosecutors, etc. They all did their job, and in the end, the judge did not do it, and then he even gets a recommendation from the Lawyer's Chamber or the Prosecutor who writes if he goes to press charges against the same Judge Šubic to come to a slippery slope where he should question the people who worked with him. This, of course, is not worth a single country and is not worth our justice. But as some people have said here today, I've been talking about it myself, they're not all the same, and a lot of judges, prosecutors are honest, hardworking, good and so on. I am now meeting in the work of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services with very strange matters, so that it costs you breath and also the authorities working on certain matters feel powerless. I don't think a change in age for a judge to 35 years is a real change. Minister, it would be better here if we had a working age, not an age, because 35 years ago someone who studied very thoroughly or someone who graduated very superficially and quickly has a different working age and age can have the same. So next time it would be good to think about the working age of someone who could occupy a judicial seat. However, I think that the competence of transferring the procedures for the election of a judge from the Ministry to the Supreme Court can contribute to a certain quality, since, already here in this case, the Supreme Court will have in mind that someone at the Ministry in connection with the previous amendment of the law on the work of ministries, there is an independent commission that will also supervise the work of individual courts. We know that according to the organizational scheme, not by substance, and this can be what I think is good about this change. It is unacceptable that such matters as, say, recently this one of Mirage's insidious cases cannot be decided by the court for 8 years. Eight years! And then for every year, someone gets a million euros, which I believe is completely unjustifiable and probably a lot behind it. And this is where it's going to show whether internal control is going to do anything or not. My colleague Branisel said that if there is no complaint, there is no debate in court, no lawsuit, so if no one sues, no one judges. That is true, but there are two other negotiations within these lobbyes: The crow does not turn off its eyes or the Cadiah sues the incense court. In short, these are dangers. And with these two novels that the Minister has prepared, some things are trying to move, but in my opinion we are still missing a lot. Minister, however, we should definitely have a court for real speedy action if economic crime is happening to someone, that for a work done on the basis of a pre-contract, a contract, whatever, that is, a document that has been ordered and someone has done something, someone else has to settle it, and that does not get paid in order to get it resolved immediately. In order to avoid default, it is possible that companies that have done their jobs honestly will then become bankrupt, into financial difficulties, cannot repay their loans and so on. This is happening, for example, even locally, that someone ordered some work, and then the local community as part of the state administration does not settle it because of cynicism, willfulness and so on. These are matters that should be resolved immediately and prioritised in a few days, 10, 14 days, a month's ceiling, the courts, because this solves a certain well-standing company which, due to such machinations of someone, is for reasons that are not important – it is important that this does not happen – that someone suffers harm. Then there's the business damage and all that's left to it. Finally, all these burdens, including what European courts decide, are passed on to our people, i.e. taxpayers. Then various taxes are raised and so on, which unfortunately has already happened and is still being prepared. However, I hope that it will be so clever that you will no longer come to the National Assembly with the following taxes, but rather with additions and corrections to certain legislation. As you can see, even in the opposition, we know how to listen, support and give you another hint, a suggestion of how to move things forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. It's mag. Matthew Tonin, followed by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u138	Colleagues and colleagues, in today’s debate, some have been upset or complained that it has been said many times today, that stories are repeated from extraordinary meetings, committees and other meetings. If changes were to take place and if the problems had been resolved, then perhaps such discussions as we have today would not have been. But that is how we speak and speak, but some concrete changes are not for the better, and I therefore find it completely understandable that such discussions are happening over and over again. Those who say how the judicial branch of the authority of the world is, that we should not comment on anything, I have just written down what the judicial branch of power thinks of our work today, what we are doing today and of these laws that are being amended now. For example, the President of the Council of Justice said that these were unthinkable changes, then the President of the Supreme Court said that we would go under the judiciary to politics and so on. Isn't that an interference between the judiciary and the legislative branch? But that's allowed, and the other way around, it's obviously not. If everything's so great and everything's so cool, then I'm really interested and I'm asking, let's say they know the authorities, why do we have a backlog, why drug dealers are being released, and why there's no conclusion to the apparent corrupt behaviour of the judges. The judges themselves should be the first ones to be interested in making concrete changes in the judiciary in order to make these matters more effective. But they don't seem to see these problems. Since I cannot imagine that the judge, who has been shown to have failed to control bankruptcy proceedings, has allowed this personal council, which should first stop the progress of such a judge, to make progress. I simply cannot see such an act as if the judiciary did not see the problems and problems it was facing. Today, it has been generally said that in a democracy where we have three branches of power, a system of barriers and balances must apply. And if we are controlled through the judicial branch of power, our actions are also judged by the Constitutional Court and by another court, and we give our opinion on our decisions. Our work is judged at every election, we can judge the government every day and request a confidant. However, the judicial branch of power is exempt from all these stories. I am not talking about whether the executive branch of power or the legislative branch, if I speak through the domestic government or parliament, should be involved in those things that the judiciary is doing, but I think it would not be blasphemous if the executive branch of authority could exercise control over what the judicial branch of authority is doing. But the changes ahead still leave the judicial branch to decide its actions. For example, the mandatory introduction of official control over the work of the judge, which will be carried out by the judge, not by someone who is a member of the Ministry or the Minister of Justice. I find it hard to imagine, or maybe some constitutional lawyers or other lawyers will explain to me what would be the issue of an act if control were not to decide how the judge should judge, but to oversee his work by someone from the Ministry of Justice. I would like to explain in more detail who is most opposed to this and what is the problem that such a thing should not happen. Some stressed today that there are control mechanisms and sanctions in the judiciary, but you have found that they are not being used and that there are no concrete results. That I'm not just going to criticize and not say that I'm just spreading negative energy, maybe even some positive thing from this law. However, I also see positive things in that these corrections also allow for a 20% reduction in the salary of the judge if it is proven to him or if it is proven that he has failed to meet certain standards, that certain things can also be considered as a priority, that things will not happen in the months, years, until they expire. However, I cannot help but feel that these are very small changes, for which I fear they will not produce the desired results, or if I say in a parable, I fear that aspirin will cure pneumonia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. Mrs. Marjana Kontnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act contains minor changes in the transfer of powers from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in my opinion, are not as small as Mr Tonin said, but I think they are changing the essential matters which indicate that the Court will be given more power to decide both on the number of courts and on the conduct of the procedures of jurisdiction with regard to personnel records and so on. I therefore believe that these are very important changes and are leading in the right direction for changes in justice. As I have already said, the Ministry of Justice is transferring to the Supreme Court the powers to elect or appoint a judge, then to determine the number of judicial posts, to independently manage the procedures for the election or appointment of judges, to manage the central staff records, and to combine the central staff records and personal records of judges. The management of the combined record is therefore transferred from the Ministry to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law also adds the function of Secretary of State to the officers in charge of their functions. The possibility of a stay of judicial office shall be extended to those judges who would be appointed to the post of official post. The provisions relating to the assessment of judicial work shall be strengthened. The situation is better regulated when the Court of Justice does not confirm the assessment of the judicial service from which it follows that the judge does not correspond to the judicial service, as it will be considered that the personal council will have to re-examine the assessment of the judicial service. The Personal Council will have to determine whether the judge meets the conditions for promotion or not. In the cases of two consecutive assessments of the judicial service, which state that the judge does not meet the conditions for promotion, it is envisaged to sanction the reduction of wages up to 20%. This measure may take up to one year. The work of the District Judge to be carried out in the District Court on the basis of the annual schedule will be taken into account in the assessment of the judicial service. The Minister will only be able to request an assessment of the judicial service in the exercise of his or her powers. It follows from the text of the law that this law also introduces important powers and that certain powers from the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Justice are transferred to the court, i.e. to the President of the Supreme Court. I believe that this amendment is appropriate and, of course, I will vote that it is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin's not in the gym. It's mag. Majda Potter. She's not in the hall either. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Respected, the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service or the addition of this Law is somehow logically linked to the preliminary amendments to the Law on Courts and makes minor changes, in my opinion, necessary changes, which are in fact the consequences of a painful effort to make the courts, the judiciary of which part of the Judges, of course, become more effective. So that we do not speak further and further and further about the backlogs, about the inefficiency of our courts. Of course, the effectiveness of the courts is largely linked to how judges manage their work successfully, consistently, professionally and qualitatively. I believe that the justice ministry, which is responsible in some way for this part of the state's operation, although the judicial branch is absolutely independent, must offer solutions that should bring improvements in this area. If justice were to work, if there were no judicial backlogs, then it would be most logical for everyone to rule this case absolutely autonomously. I think that judges and the judiciary must be aware that this is not an attempt to interfere with the autonomy of the courts. It should be noted that they have difficulties in carrying out the judicial service, which is linked to efficiency. As a result, I think there are key changes here regarding the tightening of the assessment of judicial work and the official supervision of the judge's work. I know that some institutions of control also exist now, only probably these institutes do not apply properly and do not bring the desired results, because then it would not happen occasionally on certain occasions, both in the prosecutions and in the courts of discovery of unprocessed files, that the files are deposited, that they lie in drawers and that the judges have served to solve only minor cases and thus have in an irresponsible way damaged both the profession and the citizens who depend on them to believe that the courts operate independently, expeditiously, expediently, which, hand to heart, many times happens that they do not work. I am sure that some of these institutes will not be necessary if our courts are to have competent, suitable judges who will run their own courts in an appropriate manner. I think that the judiciary should understand that some changes need to be made, that something needs to be changed and that it is in their best interests to agree. also with a colleague of the predecessors that they cannot react as if the policy wants to interfere with the independence of the judiciary. I don't think that politics wants it for once in this country, it doesn't have that purpose. With a little focus on the work of individuals, the judges only want to improve the quality and general impact of the Slovenian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Borut Ambrožič, followed by Mr Zvonko Černač and then prepared by Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Mirko Brulc, or Mr Srečko Meh, before Mr Černač. No, then Mr. Tinker Bell has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you very much, again. I think that the laws we're talking about today are somehow related, both to the judicial service and to the courts, and perhaps we should continue where we left off. We talked about the fact that, in addition to the public awareness that the situation in the judiciary is not good or, even more, it is bad that it does not work in a way that everyone would like to know that this awareness has somehow come into these areas, it is to a level of policy, where on the one hand there is the possibility, and on the other hand the responsibility that something should be changed in the event of awareness that something is not good. Instead of having two laws on the table today that will not change the situation, we can say this responsibly today, and I am sure that in a year we will be able to see these zero results, unless, of course, there are any more fundamental changes in procedural legislation in the interim period, and if, in this interim period, there is also a change in human resources at the highest levels in the judiciary and the prosecution, then perhaps some results will be, as the way of action will also be different, the institutions will become aware of problems and responsibilities. And probably if they are led by other people who will be able to motivate justice and the prosecution towards a more effective implementation of the legislation in force, then the changes could be. Yesterday, however, despite repeated insistence, we did not get a clear reply from the competent minister on whether he really believes that both Mr Maslesha and Mr Fischer are the ones who will ensure the necessary changes in the judiciary and the prosecution. We do not have this answer, I hope that we will get it today at least when we consider two laws in the field of justice. Because the answer to that question is somehow essential. If the Minister considers that these amendments can be provided by those who oppose these relatively small changes in both laws, if the Minister considers that the amendments can provide for those for whom the question is whether they meet the conditions for appointment under the provisions of the current Judicial Service Act, then we are faced with a fundamental problem as to whether, indeed, that part of the policy where it is currently the highest responsibility and which is also somehow generating changes to this legislation is truly aware of the problems and situations in which we are today. The public, people, especially if it is judged on behalf of the people, as it is done with us, is indeed that the situation here is slightly different, obviously we have this remnant somehow from some past regime and to some symbolic also reflects this revolutionaryity of our judiciary in these days, so if it is judged on behalf of the people, then, of course, there is a reasonable expectation that the judicial apparatus will work in the interests of this people, in the interest of the people, that it will use the optimal means, the lowest possible, and that it will also achieve the highest possible effects through this optimal operation. A reasonable expectation is expressed when it is judged on behalf of the people, as it is done in the Republic of Slovenia, that the interests of the people are protected in full, all in the same way. Here is an immediate question of how it is possible, in public statements, to say the President of the largest ruling party he has ever given, I think a year ago, on some video medium that he influenced bank directors, I think he said that the largest state bank, and lobbied for loans for the Stožice, for loans received by private companies amounting to just over 100 million euros, did not trigger any process on the basis of such a statement. It was clearly an intervention aimed at making a promise, on the basis of this promise, some credits have taken place, which will obviously never be returned or may be returned to 5% to 10% of what has been borrowed. On the other hand, we all pay them, especially by taxpayers, recently 500 million euro of additional recapitalisation for the New Ljubljana Bank, which would certainly not be necessary if these unnecessary loans amounted to over some 100 million euros for such projects [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u145	Mr. Chernač, the Law on Judicial Service is a debate, please focus on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u146	This is what I'm talking about, only, Madam President, you have to listen to me very carefully, because if you listen to me very carefully, you will be able to hear me speak exclusively about the Judicial Service Act and I'm talking about whether these changes that we have before us today are really what should allow for changes in this justice in a way that identical cases to be dealt with in the same way or not. And I said one particular case, a few of you obviously stabbed yourself because it's the president of your party, but I'm gonna say another case that I'm not just gonna say it. On the other hand, we have the case of a MEP in the European Parliament who also made a public statement in front of the camera and said he was willing to vote for 100,000 euros in favour of a proposal when asked whether he was ready to do so. This was a Member of the Social Democrats. And to this day [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u147	I agree that in any way you are operating excessively on cases, perhaps just so that the timeline is fulfilled in that you are referring to specific cases. I understand that you want to explain things with examples, just please, if you define yourselves more clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u148	Please give me back a minute of time that you unduly took away from me. I understand that this matter has hurt you, too, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u149	It was 30 seconds, he'll be confessed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u150	I understand that this matter has made you sick because a few years ago you were still in the grip of the Social Democrats, and perhaps because of you yourself this matter may be a little painful. [[...]] But I'm gonna keep going. On the other hand, we have cases where we had a European Member of the Social Democrats, where this was publicly said 100,000 euros and so on in a well-known place, at a known time, in a known way, also a clear qualification of this act. I think that in one of the neighbouring countries, someone who was filmed in the same package was sentenced to several years in prison. We have a case of a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, where it was an unknown place, an unknown time, an unknown height at all, there was nothing, no elemental qualification of anything, where we had not only an accusation, but also a conviction at the first stage. And by the way, in the first stage of the District Court, it was a case that has been said to be one of the most difficult corruption cases in the last 20 years. It was a court-martial. We have 44 of those in this country. And in the District Court of Justice, which we are examining today, a judge or a judge who is 30 years of age and has three years of work experience after having passed a legal exam and has not a minute's worth in the economy, not in the judiciary, not anywhere. She could have graduated, she had passed her legal exam, she was, say, in these reference waters of the judiciary, in judicial bureaucracy, I call it, without a minute of experience. In our country it can be judged, an individual may be tried in such cases. Of course, it's not one of the hardest cases. We all know what we're talking about. It is a matter of great manipulation on one side of the court, on the other hand, by the prosecution, which referred to this, that the qualification of the act was chosen for this reason, so that there was no trial of the indictment that the District Court was elected because the judge is an individual, etc. However, we have before this novel judges who become judges at the age of 30 with three years of work experience. On the other hand, for a wide range of jobs in the public administration, in the public sector, for significantly lower jobs because they are relatively irresponsible jobs, but the conditions of demanding work experience are significantly higher. Subtlely taller. Five, seven, ten years. And with this novel, where we are raising the threshold to 35 years, this novel does not change the working experience. Three years of work experience remain as it has been so far. Of course, only this part does not cause all problems in justice, but it is one of the problems that should be addressed. See, even in the former country, when we had a different system, a different regime that was not democratic, let's be honest, judges also had some authority because they came to these positions after certain experiences, through a certain kilometer that they had accumulated in such or other practical waters. Thus, this change will not make a difference. Age, see if it's 30 or 35 years old, it's not that important. I think it is important that those who have some experience who are highly qualified and who are also significantly more sovereign through this experience. In this novel of marriage there are a number of things that we can tell them are about cleaning up, an attempt to clean up the judicial bureaucracy. However, let us ask ourselves whether this change will also bring any significant progress in what Slovenia is facing today. Will this amendment to the Law on Judicial Service allow cases that are something where trials are carried on for not a year, two years, but ten years, and cases come back from a higher level and back, many times, will this novel prevent this from happening? He won't. Will this novel make it possible for economic disputes to no longer have an average of 1,400 days, but a year, as is the case in some European countries? Will we therefore make this new covenant so that the trial will be substantially shorter and that the way justice works will contribute to making these proceedings shorter? We won't, because there are no mechanisms in it. Will this novel prevent, for example, the release into Slovenia of criminals, the most serious criminals involved in drug trafficking? More. Will this novel ever prevent judgment in such cases from being written within the time limit set by the law, which is otherwise instructive, but still short notice? We won't. Will this novel achieve that the judgment in the case of Patrie will be written within 30 days, given that it has already been publicly read and reasoned, as stipulated by the law, even though only this deadline is instructive? We won't. We have heard it publicly stated that this judgment will not be written in 30 days, as the law says. Will anyone answer for this? He won't. Will this novel prevent what happened in the case of the former Prime Minister, Mr Janša, from being threatened by an assistant police station commander in Ljutomer in 2006 and sent him a death threat? He was fired from his job. The clerk's office brought him back to work, gave him his uniform back. However, in Ormož's court, the criminal proceedings were outdated against this perpetrator. I've noticed somewhere that this judge has been rewarded with some state decoration by the President of the State or something like that. It's something similar to the decoration of a crime by the former president of the state. Will we allow these cases to be dealt with in the same way as we know, in the event of a similar death threat against the former Prime Minister, Mr Pahori, this procedure has run very quickly? Within a few months or even weeks, the perpetrator was convicted. And he's still sitting behind bars today. Will this novelty, and the previous one, allow these things to happen no longer, to be judged within reasonable time frames, that procedures will be completed within reasonable time frame, that all cases will be dealt with equally, that the courts deal with cases that are socially harmful and that cause harm to both people and the economy as well as to all of us who are ultimately causing the system the greatest harm? Will these novels allow Patria to finally sit on the court where the cash flow was detected, even publicly said, "Yes, I got about half a million from Patria," about half a million euros from Patria. Someone else in this story was getting this money through some accounts in Austria and Switzerland, apparently, avoiding trial. I don't think there's a gun against him. Whether these novelties will actually allow those who need to be processed and not to be processed and that there will be no such or other mounted processes against those where there is no such content, they are politically incompatible. I'm afraid not. I'm afraid these novels won't help clean up this system, because the first step in this clearance phase has to make the system itself. He can do it if he's led by a man who's aware of it. And the second step can be taken by all of us, the most responsible minister, the government and beyond, all of us, to support him. It would be right for the Minister to be aware that this is an important task entrusted to him that he has a great responsibility. And I suggest that he reconsider whether it is right to lose further weeks and months to discuss and consider two novels that will in no way change the effectiveness of the judiciary and the prosecution system in that country, or whether it is better that this part, which is possible to be an impulse, incorporates in a comprehensive change of both laws and all others that need to be changed in this area. The profession, the distinguished minister, a respected former colleague, will attach itself to this. The profession will tell you that it is unfortunately reform 1. 1. 1995 has shown itself inadequate that much of what we are facing today is also due to this unfortunate reform. And if we are aware of this, then it is right that from the experience we have in this last 18-year period, we do all we can to come up with a concept that will allow justice and the prosecution to regain the place they deserve to gain the reputation and confidence in the public, that people will start believing again in the rule of law and justice and thus also in the whole country and all of us. I think it would be right for us to take this step and not just make minor changes because we are doing them and to give the public an impression of how these changes will make things better, because we already know that they will not. I think it is necessary to write very clearly in this legislation all the things that we have talked about in the past days and which you have also somehow committed to be done, both with regard to the time limits for the trials, as regards the fact that cases cannot be drawn indefinitely, as regards the control mechanisms, as regards the reduction in the number of judges. This should also be said in connection with this amendment of legislation, because if we have twice as many judges as is necessary and we have an even greater inefficiency of the system, then it is right to regulate these things through this legislation and to slowly bring the system towards greater professionalisation, to a system of cleansing in a way that allows those entrusted with an important mission and important task to effectively judge in accordance with the law and that the laws available will make them more effective than they are today. I think that these solutions need to be seen from the point of view of the user, from the point of view of those who expect us to create such laws, which will then have concrete consequences in practice in order to restore the rule of law and justice in Slovenia, and to prevent the processing of those who are not guilty, to prevent the proceedings from being directed against those who are guilty and for whom there is evidence in front of everyone that they have committed the wrong actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you very much. A little fast, given the list of discussers, but still. Look, I've already made some things very clear in my previous marriage that we are not going to oppose this law that we are considering today. However, if we are there, from the point of view of support for the law, we, of course, feel that we are also responsible for the situation followed by the adoption of this law. The law, according to our assessment, is not harmful, as I have already said, but on the other hand, we do believe that this step is too small for several reasons. I hope that this substantial, significantly longer step will still be taken, although I am deeply convinced that all the efforts of the Minister, which I have already said several times, I believe are not enough. The Minister is an absolutely lonely rider in the desert and cannot reach the goal, I am sure, without the help of the coalition and without the help of the entire Parliament. Look, we're still talking, and just a little bit earlier, Mr Braniselj spoke about this, and he said that the liability is settled with us so that it can be recovered from the judges as well. Nice. Last time we discussed ZIPRO, I said and asked all Members to bring me one example in the budget, which has an increased budget in three years as well as RTV, this time I ask Mr Branislje to show me one example. Only one case, because of, say, a trial in unreasonable deadlines or some other Austrian-Italian-German cases committed on Slovenian soil, has someone received compensation – these cases will be huge and then this compensation was recovered from the judge or the prosecutor. There is no such case in Slovenia. And if there is no such case in Slovenia, then it's a dead letter on paper. It's a dead letter on paper that's completely useless. Article 288, of course, exists and speaks of this illegal trial and so on and so on, to a biased trial and so on and so on. One case, please. One example of this happening in Slovenia at any time since 1990. It didn't happen. And since it did not happen, there is no responsibility for decisions in court. It doesn't exist. Then it's like paying a lottery ticket where you get a million. Great, of course you have a chance, and someone else gets that million. There are no such judgments here. They don't exist. And that concludes, that is to say, the fact that I am already talking about in the past is that there is no responsibility in justice. It is true that it will be difficult or difficult to give any law to the minister so much authority that he can walk through justice and seek responsibility, and I would fear that, and that would not be right. Responsibility must be established within the judicial system, and I agree with that. But see if it's 23 years and no one's responsible yet. No one has ever been responsible for their actions. Even cases where a person is threatened with such or different salary cuts, failures, and so on, the judges simply withdraw and become lawyers. And it's the end of the story, and we have nothing. I hope, Minister, that in the fall you will put this provision into law, I hope that this will go within, the most appropriate law of course would be to say that you can't become a lawyer for five years if you were a prosecutor or a judge. But the Council of Justice will say again that this is a violation of the right to work, which is a constitutional right or whatever. Yeah, we just can't listen to them. At this point, I want to do it again, with regard to this responsibility. Have we ever received a request from the Supreme Court in the National Assembly to question us at the height of the sentence imposed? No, no, no. And it's also right that you don't. From this point of view, the judicial branch of power is independent. But I don't know why the executive branch of power, that's the minister, that's all it's ever been, and why this state council is listening to the Council of Justice. When the Council of Justice is talking about not doing that, it wouldn't, and it wouldn't, but we wouldn't record the main proceedings and so on. We just don't have to ask them that. After all, the formality that we carry out in this National Assembly is the election of judges, and this National Assembly always sends an invitation, as far as I know, to the President of the Court or to the President of the Council of Justice. What's going on? That chair over there is empty. I've never seen any judges vote there before. Never. However, when the President of the Republic proposes or any judge, as we have had a vote a few days ago, or when he proposes another human resources solution, Mrs Kovaceva sits there, explaining and politely out of respect for the National Assembly sitting here with us until we vote. But when the motioner is the Council of Justice, they ignore us like we're not here. After five years in the National Assembly, no one has ever sat there. And they are the proponents, and we are the ones who make the formal decision. Of course, I don't remember ever having a voice against the election of judges. I never remember that. But if he was, he was more than a mistake. That means we do it as an automatic. We take it as automatic. These elections are unnecessary. The rest of history and nothing else. That the judicial system lives its life and that the judicial system has not yet been saved is also more or less a clear story. Yesterday, I asked the Minister how the budget was, or how the funds spent on representation in the courts were, and we received a reply of 23 or 21,000 euros spent on representation. Get all the ministers together and we'll compare these numbers to the Prime Minister. Let's compare them. The judicial system lives in a shell, a vacuum like some kind of space capsule, and they're already walking through the air. It is therefore imperative that what I am talking about be incorporated into the legislation into the mechanisms which will establish responsibility there. If responsibility is established there, this work will be much better. I'm pretty sure some things wouldn't have happened, but I'm not going to be back on any known case, and you're going to tell me, and one of them is going to get a little bumpy and walk out of the hall, and he's really gonna go to that lawyer. Look, if I have a specific case with a name and surname, but I don't have to put that name and last name out, but the case is right where the judge says the sentence, "You've regretted me," says the lawyer. And the lawyer pays the fine. This is confirmed by the higher court, confirmed by the Supreme Court, confirmed by the Constitutional Court, all right. So it was an insult. But Strasbourg says, "no, give her back the money and give her 4,000 Euros of compensation, and pay a thousand Euros of expenses." Look, we have another 5,000 euros coming out of that worker's pocket, a pensioner who lives for 300 euros. Why don't we get it back from that judge or judge who said that? Why don't we get it back? It's imperative that we recover, and nothing else! But we need to put in place mechanisms for this situation, not that we have a simple system that's under the coat of independence, that's a capsule, let's get this done. And this capsule is twice as expensive as the average of Europe paid by all Slovenian taxpayers. And that's what's wrong here, what we want to point out, where we want to help the Minister in fact, I'm going to say directly. But I hope that the Minister will in particular be assisted by the coalition when he has to tell the Council by pressing this button, "no, that's what's going to happen." And we have to do this, and in this direction we just have to go. You think some of the judgments would be like that if the judge knew what would happen. He said, "Ah, because they will cancel at a higher level, if anything is wrong, they will cancel." And they say, "No, we're going back to trial first and we're going to repeat the trial." We have already settled this matter in law in 2006 or 2007, and we have said that in certain cases the higher court cannot return to the first stage, but must decide whether it will confirm the first stage or not, or whether it will decide otherwise. Then of course came the most capable minister – Mr Zalar, who once again proposed everything back to normal and we have an old system again. And that's why we're back on stage one and so on, which is not necessary. If a higher court finds that something is wrong, then it should decide to impose a different penalty, to raise it, to lower it, to forgive a person or to do anything, but not to re-judge at the first stage. That's why we have these trials, which are going on, I don't know how many years, which is essentially not necessary. In short, I'm not stalling, Minister, I'm seriously expecting and I want the changes you're about to make in the fall to be held accountable, especially for the responsibility of the judiciary. This would be extremely useful, although we will never carry out this responsibility with the current staffing structure. That's clear as day. Not like that. It would therefore be necessary to intervene in the Constitution in order to establish this justice system as an independent branch of government. Last but not least, Romania, Bulgaria before joining the EU, there are documents about what they have done and today they are ahead of us. They got fired and then got a new job. And if they did something like this to me, they would – but not everything – be able to do some important intervention in the judicial branch of power to ensure those standards that are in force within the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is also given by the Government as a proponent. Mr. Minister, Dr. Shadow Plitzenic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is true, as Sir Gorenak, a respected former colleague, says, that for the changes we all want, i.e. for more effective justice, I will need the support of all, both Members and Members of the coalition as well as members of the opposition, as well as the support of anyone else outside this House outside the legislative body. I am thinking about support in the judiciary, in the state's prosecution, in other parts of the judiciary, because nothing helps to adopt such or other laws, legal changes, if they do not then apply them in practice. In this part, I agree with Mr Gorenak and Mr Černač's discussion, as well as with a number of others, that we should do everything possible to ensure that the legal standards governing the functioning of the judiciary in this case, and this also applies to all other legal standards, in practice, that we give little attention to the subject in Slovenia in general, and as I have said repeatedly, I think that this is one of the main problems we have in Slovenia. So enforcement of law, enforcement of laws and other regulations. If I return to the main objective, for which I feel even after today's debate, that all honourable Members and Members agree with it, that is to say, in the shortest possible time, I could say a radical change in the effectiveness of the justice system, in particular the judiciary, which in particular means a reduction in judicial proceedings and a faster elimination of judicial arrears, which also means a lot of other things, as was the case today. For once, I am focusing on this main objective, because I think that this is what we must achieve first, so the reduction of judicial proceedings, as has been said several times in the public eye and, as the saying goes, Only rapid justice, is the right. That's how this goal is crucial. To achieve this goal, however, we need the support of all, we need as much consensus as possible on all those to whom this applies, otherwise there will be no change, with such or other legal changes. Even if the legal changes were more radical than the opposition, at least the Slovenian Democratic Party, is still in the hands of those who have the primary responsibility here, these are judges and judges, the Presidents of the Courts, the Supreme Courts and the President of the Supreme Court. Here I would like to say something that seems crucial to me and which led me in the preparation of these two legislative changes, namely the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which is currently under discussion, but this is, as has been mentioned many times today, an inseparable package of two laws and thus two amendments to these two laws. The key guide that I came from in preparing the amendments to these two laws, similar to other laws, such as the amendment of the bankruptcy law recently passed by Parliament, was the question of what some system we are trying to make more effective, in which case this judiciary is able to implement in practice in a relatively short time. This is generally true. When we change something, some regulation in some area must be based on the real capacity of this system, this organisation or the set of these organisations, to actually enforce this change. Last year, I was convinced that this is one of the very important factors to be taken into account. Forcing someone into some transformation of things that someone or the whole system isn't ready for is actually Sisyphus' work. We can achieve a countereffect, achieve a negative state, not a positive one, which is what we all want. Therefore, it is necessary to work with soundness of mind, to take account of this fact, while at the same time decisively and uncompromisingly, when we are pursuing this fundamental objective, this is in a short time, I repeat, to achieve an important, radical change in speed. So there is a goal, and I agree with this once again with the many today that have discussed this, and this has been highlighted, in recent years and decades, virtually no one has really engaged in it. And so today we have the situation that we have, we have to solve it quickly, not in a way that would achieve the opposite result of what we want. That is why the plan of my reforms related to the functioning of the judiciary, and then the State Prosecutor's Office and other parts of the judicial system, follows this basic principle that I have mentioned. As it is said, these two novels are the first step, an important step towards achieving this fundamental goal, followed by other steps. The second step will not only be to amend the laws on courts and judicial services that we plan for the fall and which will include a number of issues, including those raised by representatives and representatives of the opposition, but also a series of other legislative changes that will all contribute to achieving this fundamental objective. Let me tell my distinguished colleague Cernač, including a former colleague in the government, that this is part of the legislative change plan, this is also based on the commitment of the judiciary and the government to Slovenian citizens and citizens, that there is also a change in procedural legislation in this plan. We have taken a comprehensive approach to this, and in this first step we have addressed these issues, which are particularly related to governance, the organisation of work, the organisation of business in the courts, because we are also convinced, through discussion and coordination with some eminent representatives of the judiciary, who are also aware of the necessity and need for change, that it is precisely in this work, namely in the organisation of business and its rationalisation, a great deal of manoeuvring space, which ultimately confirms the experience with some of the pilot projects that have been introduced and carried out at the end of the previous year and at the beginning of this year, when they have actually achieved very important cuts, very important savings in the time needed to decide, i.e. to process individual cases in the courts. That's the first step. There are a number of other steps, including related, as I have already mentioned, to rationalising procedural legislation, both criminal proceedings and judicial proceedings, as well as to unfair proceedings. We're gonna do all of this. In a certain part, as the two honourable colleagues will probably recall, these changes have already been prepared in the past mandate and we will come from these changes, which we have prepared in the previous mandate, we will only upgrade them, and I am counting on the constructive cooperation of the opposition. I see that you have a lot of concrete proposals on how to improve both procedural legislation and something else, so I am counting on you to provide us with these proposals in time, and I am committed to including them as much as possible in the changes we are preparing. What I would like to stress in particular with regard to the amendment of the Judicial Service Act is the following. I think that the fundamental objective or the fundamental element, the fundamental cornerstone of the judiciary, should be – and this should be our common objective of government, parliament and judiciary – independent but also highly professional and highly efficient judges and judges. As I have already mentioned, today's proposal is the first step towards a new regime, an arrangement where becoming a judge or a judge means finishing a large-scale judicial school and conducting the required examination, where not only legal knowledge is required, but also other knowledge and skills, where it becomes clear that a judicial function means, in addition to rights and authority, a great responsibility, a responsible attitude to work, to the reputation of the judiciary and the rule of law. This is the only way to introduce other European standards in addition to the European permanent mandate, so that our judiciary will be truly European comparable. However, the legal changes, these two and a number of others that follow in the coming months, are only one pillar with which I intend to contribute my part as a minister and as a member of the government to the achievement of a modern European comparable justice system. In addition to legislative changes, we are also preparing intensive education intensively. I have talked about this several times in Parliament. I think that education is what Slovenian justice, judges, judges, state prosecutors, state prosecutors and others, both classical education and – I would like to stress in particular because in Slovenia there is a complete absence of what I intend to say – including e-education, something they know in the world as the word e-learning connection in general in different systems. Particularly in the private sector, this system has been developed to the point of precision. So permanent education of senior staff, i.e. top management, middle management and others in relation to various knowledge using information technology. We are completely ignoring the opportunities offered by information technology in this regard, so I intend to give great attention to the issue of the use of information technologies in the education of judges, judges, state prosecutors and state prosecutors and other actors in the judiciary. This is also due to the fact that European funds are available for this purpose and, as I say, in the coming weeks, not in the months ahead, to devote most of my attention and to the establishment of a comprehensive education system, which will be an important part of e-education. Finally, I think that my role as a moral compass in transforming the Slovenian judiciary into a modern, European and other developed world should be comparable, as Greece has rightly warned, the Council of Justice will also have to do. Here I am referring to the recommendations of Greece, which are intended for organisations such as the Court of Justice in Slovenia, with regard to the rules of conduct, behaviour and, in general, certain rules which must be followed by judges and judges and which still need to be drawn up. These are not, and I am counting here, and I expect that the Council of Justice will be its task, for which it is clear that it exists, but now we have recommendations here very exact, very carefully worked out, recommended to Greece how to do this. To conclude, I would like to stress once again the importance of the packages of both amendments to the law. Here I do not share the views of some of the opposition's discussers that the changes are small, irrelevant and will have no effect. As it is said, the judiciary and the government have promised Slovenian citizens something very concrete, no usual too often used flossules in Slovenia, but a very precise plan to reduce judicial proceedings by 2014. I expect from the judiciary, from the Supreme Court, from its President to do everything in his power to make this part of the commitment relating to the judiciary up to 1. 3. 2014 will also deliver. And yet, because you've been dragging me around so much since yesterday on the question of what I think about the President of the Supreme Court and what I think about the Supreme Court in general. I think, as I am already a few times perhaps less direct, but I will now say very directly, we have a commitment, the goal or the plan is perfectly clear, and I think that is also the responsibility of someone who has important responsibilities in the realization of this commitment. However, let me say that the powers of the President of the Supreme Court, even the Supreme Court at all, are often overestimated, even from these performances, as if the President of the Supreme Court is now the one on whom it depends, whether the Slovenian judiciary will modernise or not. Here we need to know that we can have Superman at the head of the Supreme Court or at the head of any other institution, but I do not think that this depends on everything when it comes to the President of the Supreme Court, which is particularly true. He has important powers associated with the judicial administration, only with the judicial administration, none other. Of course, they are very important, but they are not the powers that anyone might have thought of when they listened to the debate, particularly Mr. Chernač. When it comes to the responsibility of all of us, who have given the commitment to Slovenian citizens and citizens, I have already made public many times, it is my responsibility to ensure the realization of the government's commitments, and it is the responsibility of the President of the Supreme Court to ensure the fulfilment of the commitments made by the judiciary. And when he gets here, he'll be one. 3. 2014 I think it will be a good time to talk about responsibility. Let me also say that I am pleased, despite some of the views which ascribe to these novels a small step, that the majority discussion is such that I see that Members and Members of this Slovenian Parliament support this first or second step in the reform of the Slovenian judiciary. As I have mentioned several times before, and I think that this is somehow the general motto of the policy that I am leading, the improvement of the efficiency of the judiciary, or the achievement of any objectives in this country, will only be possible if we work together and if we are aware that these objectives are the common objectives of all of us. The effectiveness of the judiciary, which we want to improve in a short time, is the backbone of the functioning of the judicial system, it is a very important backbone without which there is no possible successful and effective way out of the crisis. But I don't think that's enough. I believe that we have everything in Slovenia to develop into a successful society. One of the first important steps for this is that we have effective justice, but this is not the only step we need. We need a lot more. And in this place, I would take this opportunity, although this is not a direct area that belongs to my department, but it is somehow logically linked to what I am talking about, that is to say to some common concern of all of us, in particular public officials, that it will be better for all our citizens and citizens in this country as soon as possible. So, I am sure that what we urgently need in Slovenia is a very clear objective, a very clear development goal, a development vision of this country. I am not talking about development strategies, as we have in the past, which are long-term pawns, and a few hundred pages, which no one reads after they have been created, but about a very clear goal, one, two, three, which we, as a nation, as citizens and citizens in this Parliament, need to confirm elsewhere and then direct all energy towards achieving this goal. I am sure that in Slovenia we have everything, and the natural attributes and human virtues, that from a country in which there seems to be no hope any more, for many, than that this light hopes more each day, I am sure that we can reverse it. But we can only turn around if we work together and if we are aware that cooperation is the only way to achieve this goal, and if we are aware that we really have everything we need. This has to do with greater confidence. I mean, as I've said several times before, it's a lack of self-confidence, it's a lack of awareness that we have a lot of things, I think that everything from a country where there's obviously pessimism in a lot of people, in most cases, is going to turn into a land where optimism will prevail. And I myself, on several occasions, think that I have already said this in Parliament, convinced that this development vision can only be based on one, and this is green. So on the green economy and on everything that has to do with it. Slovenia has not yet gone too far into this, so we sing a development paradigm, whose parade horse is, say, the American economy and all it has to do with it. I even think that this example of developed countries or the desire to develop as quickly as possible, such as the United States of America and their comparable countries, is wrong. These countries are too developed, too in this sense, to overemphasize the material dimension of our stay. We in Slovenia have not yet gotten too far into this direction, we have the opportunity to stop at this point this focus on development, that is, material development as such, which is usually the basis of always environmental destruction, destruction of nature, we can reverse this trend and build a development model that will balance technological progress, scientific progress, all technological and scientific progress on the one hand, and on the other hand the return of man to the environment, to nature and in particular to human beings. I think that one true balance between these two is something that will actually enable any civilization, a nation to survive in the future. But I am convinced that those countries that are today so-sung a lot of people's goals, that developed countries, that they are the countries and their culture, the countries that are on the brink of collapse. Those who will be able to balance, I repeat, on one side of the achievement of civilization, in particular technological and scientific progress, and on the other hand re-affirm all that our ancestors in Slovenia and elsewhere already knew, it is a close connection with nature and the environment and genuine human relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah, I see the interest in the debate and I'm opening up an application for a debate. The application shall be made. Four panellists have been reported, each with 5 minutes. The first one has the word, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Much has already been said today, and for the last time at the extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly on the judiciary, on judicial service, so I appeal to the people who run this country, that those who do this in the eyes of the public in government offices, whether in fact or visibly, as well as those who do it phantomally, we do not see them, but we feel them bloody. As it has been said publicly that a judge has signed an unfair judgment and that he has done so knowingly, this has also been said in this House, and this has not been debarred, but the state has not acted and continues to judge without delay, the State has legalised the commission of the crime. And the guilty verdicts have become a regular state. Recognizing that they cannot count on the court as the last guarantor of security, the guarantor of the possibility of living honestly, depressing people and directing them to the field of suicide. We have this depressive situation because it corresponds to political elites, so there is a senseless legislation, creating invisible links to the relationship between politics and the prosecution, politics and the judiciary. The last point of resistance to political power is the indicator of political cruelty and human decay. How political elites manipulate the population in pursuit of selfish goals is also an expression of the so - called human resurrection. It is understandable that the poor people are healingly being invited to destroy corrupt politicians and soulless tycoons. And now we have in our hands the disgusting manipulation of invisible creators of the so-called human will. When influential politicians and tycoons belonging to one political pole are destroyed, the rebels are satisfied. The mayor of the metropolis, who was the target of the first cycle of the uprising, is unwaveringly carrying out activities and strengthening influence in the management of the country. Therefore this appeal to political elites and invisible authorities: stop draining the last remnants of national wealth, stop sucking the last juice of human will into life, stop it, for it is not life. For the sake of apparent success, because of your own inanimateness, you have destroyed the conditions for survival of Slovenian people, you have deprived them of dignity, you have endangered the existence of the Slovenian people. And that must be properly called a crime. That's why everything I hope will bring about an improvement in judicial service. I welcome progress towards the rule of law and will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u157	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Since the marriages are connected, maybe I'll talk a little bit about the previous ones, you'll let me, because things just connect to each other. As I said before, with amendments to the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts, we have already given many powers and powers to the Presidents and Directors of Courts. I'm more afraid that these people are not doing their job right, which is clearly what the Council of Justice also points out. At the public opening of the Court of Justice in 2012, they wrote in their document: "The Presidents of the Courts are also expected to take all appropriate measures under Article 71.c of the Courts Act, under which the President of the Court may request a judge who has been assigned to the Court of Justice to draw up a report without delay and may also request access to the file. The President of the Court will also have to report on the measures taken." So this is just one example that levers and conditions for more active court work are, but apparently those responsible, and by the way better paid, because they have some leadership functions, they do not. This is also evident in the Council of Justice. And I'd like to know, Minister, if you've checked these things or if things are being done in the same way as they are in the law. For the law already allows certain things to be done but not done. Today, someone has mentioned that crows do not turn their eyes off and that the president will not go into assessing the courts or individual judges. What are we doing with the law now? In 2012, on the basis of the Judicial Service Act, eight supervisions of judges were proposed, one of which was carried out on the basis of a proposal by the Ministry of Justice, three by its own order of the Court, and four were rejected. The Minister himself notes that he has proposed the supervision of individual judges. I suppose that's because he had some argument or some information that things weren't going as well as they should. But the Council of Justice rejected all the proposals and demands of the Ministry for the execution of official controls over judges. It is no wonder, therefore, that Mr Vlad, President of the Council of Justice, opposes the changes. But further on, if we look at what we're proposing with the law, we're taking it now to the Council of Justice. By the way, it should be recalled that this matter was given to the Council of Justice by Minister Zalar. Previously, things have been different with the Ministry writing about how this is arranged in other countries. The administration of Finnish courts is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Direct official supervision of the District Courts, which is in Austria, is carried out by the Courts of First Instance and the Minister of Justice must also exercise direct official control over the higher courts and, at the same time, exercise general supreme control over the exercise of justice in all courts within the scope of this Act. In the Republic of Italy, the Minister of Justice exercises systematic and random supervision of the activities of the judicial administration and a special inspectorate has been set up within the Ministry. In Bulgaria, from 2008 to 2010, the judicial inspectorate is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, and then they changed it. In France, the judicial inspection is directly linked to the Ministry of Justice. The Minister finds that his inspections are rejected by the Council of Justice and now that he gives the Supreme Court the opportunity to control matters. We're transferring the jurisdiction of personnel management to the Supreme Court. And here the minister writes that the number of courts is transferred to the Supreme Court and so on. They will draw up a human resources policy and their human resources policy is likely to be, 100 judges are too small, we need 200. We're going to say there's no money, and then there's going to be an excuse that we haven't done some things, because we haven't had enough judges because the minister won't be able to follow their human resources wishes, because that's going to be too expensive. We also put the records that the Ministry of Justice has now had to the Supreme Court. If anything, some officials, I suppose, have reviewed the records and found out what they're doing, how they're doing, now we're transferring it to the Supreme Court. Either this means that we are also transferring employees from the ministry or we are likely to be able to just shut down the ministry, because we will not need it if the judiciary does everything within ourselves. There are some measures, if the judge does not meet the conditions for progress, then he can also be paid down and so on. But once again, as they say [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u160	The minister said so. It is not yet time for more thorough steps or for more thorough changes, but it is time for you to take small but decisive steps. These novels speak of wanting to get rid of the little power that he has right now and transfer it to the judicial sphere, which would be nothing wrong if it worked well and enjoyed not knowing 80, 90% of the trust of the public and people would trust in this sphere of justice. Then that would be fine, but we know that's not the case. Approximately all of us evaluate him as he is, and I think that as long as drug dealers or young people’s lives are free, not only on the loose, the judgments against them have not been written in the time limits laid down in the legislation, but nothing has happened to anyone. Not just on the loose. They're sitting in VIP boxes in high-policy headquarters. As long as this is happening, as long as the European Parliament's policy, which says, "I, for 100,000 euros, will put a proposal into the procedure", and nothing has happened to him until he is free of politics, which he has publicly stated that he has lobbyed for dozens, hundreds of millions of dollars of money in the largest state banks, as long as there are mounted processes without evidence on the other hand, then this trust cannot be established. This imaginary fiction about how these legislative changes will create confidence and allow this system to be cleared can be forgotten. The second thing I have to say is that progress from yesterday to today, I am pleased that the Minister has finally said that he supports Mr Branko Maslesha, that they are here on this path of building a better justice system in the same boat. This, of course, also assumes political responsibility for all the decisions that have taken place under his leadership, under the leadership of Mr Masleš, as well as for those who have not, but should, as well as for those that are yet to come or will not. In some ways, the responsibility for illegal detention with Mrs However, when she had a legal conviction in her pocket, is taken. I think this court-martial was two months old, but they put her in illegal detention. On the other hand, we have some other convicts who have had a legal conviction in their pocket for some time now, or I have to correct myself, who have received it only after the public because of Mrs. However, it has been extremely revolutionary, which also points to the state of justice, and do not yet carry out this legal judgment. And there's a lot of these cases, we can count them. I've told you a case that's personally very cruel, that's ruined a man's life, 11 years fighting justice, not many cases like this, there's a lot of them. For 11 years, even though it was clear at the beginning of a year that there was nothing that the judgment handed down to him at that time should be excusable. And just because of some skinny prosecutor, the story lasted 11 years. Conclusion. Did anyone answer? No, no, no. Ma'am has made progress. She's become head of the D.A.'s office. The objectives set out both in this and in the previous law, increasing efficiency, strengthening the independence of the judiciary, increasing efficiency, talking about statistics, talking about comparisons, it is clear that about five hundred judges are currently too many in this country. Five hundred judges too many to come to an effective trial within a normal, reasonable time frame. So, if we are somewhere in the European Union, if we are to follow comparable countries, where things are going a little better than we are, then there should be a mechanism in this law to reach the normal number of judges in the next five years. However, to those judges who will carry out their mission as they are expected, who will be properly educated and experienced and who will have an appropriate kilometre before they receive permanent judicial status. Today this condition is thirty years old, and after the amendment of the law it will be thirty-five years and three years of working experience. Three years of work experience, and you can judge. There's only blue sky above you, no control. At least not with us. We have heard how many of these controls have been carried out and what the effects of this have been. We didn't know that in the previous country. Even in the previous country, when there were some different mechanisms, when we know who was judging in the background, who was actually judging, only those who had authority to have a reputation were concerned. And those who did so also made sure that they had their own reputation. In most cases. For those who were reduced by their heads without evidence, in a similar way as now judged in the case of Patrio, I think that last spring the Supreme Court ruled that that criminal judgment from 60 years ago was overturned. At least legally, the matter was rectified, even though that man was then reduced to his head. Today it's even worse and not with this novel [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! To be able to think about the current situation, we need to move slightly away from the current situation. If we look back into history, we find that the bullets and medals rarely reach the right person. It's rare. Therefore, it is also illusional to expect that the situation in justice will be different from that in society, that we have a completely unregulated society in all areas. In the economic field, we feel the most because we do not create enough to live. We don't have jobs, people don't have jobs. And, of course, everything else that's going on is due to this to a large extent. That's why I understand so much more now Goethe's thought, which says everyone hears only what they understand. And a lot of things, I don't think we understand. My colleague, a colleague from Janez Ribič, Milan Gumzar, Mayor of the Municipality of Benedict in Slovenski Gorica, or in one of the last compositions of which LDS was a party in Parliament, said to me then: "You know, good half a year, almost a year I tried to tell my colleagues in parliament what the real problems were. I didn't make it. After a year, I never spoke again." The LDS and the government said good-bye early for the wrong development model. We're doing exactly the same thing today. We don't hear each other and, of course, we don't want to hear the Republic we have. We all feel bad. We don't deserve enough, we accuse each other, there's uncertainty, there's mistrust, and so on. The way out of this will be long, painful, for we have been in this mess for about twenty years. Approximately that much, at least that much will take to get out of this and I agree with the minister that there are others besides material goods. And it is true that people are slowly returning to traditional production, because if someone has 500 euros in wages, 600, 700, 800, and positions for almost that much, then they have no choice but to process the garden. We Slovenians are such a successful nation that we have come down a purely natural path to force people to live and create more healthy lives, that is, in a purely primary way, although in the civilised, high-tech society that Slovenia holds, we should be where Switzerland is. According to the laws of nature, we have all these options. Let me just remind you that, in fact, not just a few years or a few months from now, we forget what we've been doing in the past. I was on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy this morning, and we discussed the famous Cadastrian Income Act. We haven't come anywhere in two years. We're doing new wrongs. Legal and regulatory services warn us that the novelty of the law is probably unconstitutional, and we continue to wood View, but this is legality, is it a just society? What are we doing here? Do we have legislative authority, bureaucracy, some invisible deadline, or what's going on? Actually, I find that difficult to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. If the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, in the framework of the vote, at 16.50. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 15th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u164	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on scholarships in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17 June 2013. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to Article 20. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[Seventy-six votes for me.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to Article 123. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[81 votes for me.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been unanimously adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the representative of the proposer of the draft law proposed that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members are present, all voted in favour. (The vote was 82.)(Nobody.) I note that the decision has been adopted unanimously. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 20 June 2013, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts is suitable for further consideration. Would you like to explain Dr. Gorenak's voice on behalf of the parliamentary group? Is there anyone else who might want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much. As I have already announced in the position of the parliamentary group, we take this law as a harmless potion to the cancer patient Cedevita. That is why we will not now oppose this law, nor will we support it, because we believe it is not harmful and we are convinced that Slovenia should achieve a comprehensive reform of the judiciary as a whole. This law, of course, does not, at the same time, bring certain matters to court, to the Presidents of the Courts, such as personnel records and so on, and the Minister has nothing to do with the mechanisms by which he could exercise to a greater extent those powers which he should exercise in relation to the judiciary. In particular, we expect that by the time of the second reading, however, until the final vote on this law, the law will have made a significant move and that the law will be supplemented in an important work – the most important thing for us is the one that speaks of responsibility. We were able to hear some things in the debate this morning, some also talked about how we have this responsibility of judges as defined in today's legislation. Since they were not there, I will now say once again that they should bring any written evidence that any judge has been materially responsible for the decisions he has taken, such as an unreasonable trial or anything like that. So we have a dead letter on paper in our marriage. The Constitution, including the Criminal Code, which refers to possible liability in the judiciary, has not been applied since 1991 or at any time in the event of any amendments to the laws in this area. This means that the judicial branch of power is simply not accountable to anyone. For comparable things, when such a responsibility exists in Europe. There is also such a responsibility that judges are responsible and require reimbursement of costs, they also lower their pensions and similar things if certain legal conditions are met, which is not the case in Slovenia. As I said, we will not support the marriage, nor will we oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, none against. (For the vote was 58.)(No one opposed.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act is suitable for further consideration. Here you are, Dr. Gorenak, you have the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here too — of course, the laws are related — we will vote or act in the same way. And once again, let me call on both the coalition and the minister to try to bring things into this law at the time of the second hearing, which will strengthen the responsibility of the court. At the same time, I think, once again, as I said, it is imperative that you join the Minister's efforts in the coalition as well, and that the coalition, together with us, takes an important step towards European justice, where Slovenian justice today is, unfortunately, not yet. Slovenian justice today lives in a shell, protected only by itself, say the incubator, protects only itself and its privileges, as some have written down. Of course, we do not deserve such justice, so I expect that by the second reading the law will be substantially corrected, because, otherwise, at the second reading, you can count on support or non-support, depending on what the law will be at that stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek on Mr Jožet Tank's question of plagiarism in higher education. Anybody want to explain their voice? Yeah. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Several problems related to plagiarism have arisen in this mandate. Several of these have also been linked to politicians, including members of the National Assembly, and one of these is also linked to the President of the Government. However, it is interesting that in most cases this authentication procedure was carried out relatively quickly, from one month to three months, and in the case of the President of the Government, this procedure is in no way running out. The deadline was three months ago. And it is obvious that this will last for several months, for those who are competent to determine authenticity or plagiarism have predicted that they will be able to determine it by two, three months, probably by the late autumn. The methodology of identification is relatively simple, there are programs, many have already analysed it. It is also also likely that there is no problem in making a substantive decision once it is determined whether or not it is actually plagiarism. In this particular case, President of the Government, the matter is even simpler, in fact, because part of her ministerial team comes from the Faculty of Social Sciences, which is supposed to determine whether its task is plagiarism or not. The president of the coalition party is also a professor in this college, and also one who will be the rapporteur of the commission is a member of the coalition party of the Social Democrats. It is said that the four decision-makers who will decide on this in one way or another come from the coalition party of the Social Democrats. And it is probably not now that it would not be possible to determine whether the task is plagiarism or not, but it is simply that this statement by the President of the Social Democrats, Mr Luksic, who is also a professor at the FDV, is to defend this government in all possible ways. We believe that, in this case, it is not the ability or inability to determine it technically quickly, but mainly that the political decision is such that it will be delayed by deciding on this plagiarism. I propose that we hold a debate on this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you. I note that there are no other applicants for explanations of vote, so we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the next decision. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek on Mr Franz Bogovic's question on the property tax forecast. Anybody want to explain their voice? Yeah. Mr. Bogowicz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u171	It is a topic that is in public debate, the law is ready and I believe that we will all respond to the public debate. However, since we have a great deal to do in this country's consolidation of public finances, I think it is right that, in the next meeting, there is an extensive debate at which we will be able to talk mainly about this tax, which is intended to recharge the state budget, to a large extent to reach into the pockets of each individual, even in my deep belief, to intervene drastically in the family budget, particularly those who have given up in the past and with their denials have built up their assets. To a large extent, this law also imposes new taxes on municipal property, which should now go to the state treasury, as well as in the area of agriculture, both for agricultural land, forests, agricultural holdings and all the facilities dedicated to this activity. I believe that there is reason enough between us to be able to decide in a thorough debate how to lead this country forward and in the spirit of the commitments we have made to the European Commission, which we need to fulfil by autumn, has also made the right decision on the basis of a thorough debate that really concerns all of us, not just individuals. I therefore propose that you support this proposal and that, once this public hearing is concluded, we hold this debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you. I note that there are no other applicants for explanations of vote, so we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on Ambassador Ljudmila Novak's proposal. The assembly should decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Mr Bratušek asked Mrs Ludmila Novak about the introduction of new taxes and measures to start the economy. Anybody want to explain their voice? Yeah. Mrs. Novakova, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u173	We know that the Economic Chamber has already expressed concern about the new taxes and measures that have been announced. On the other hand, we also know how there is a shortage of jobs in Slovenia. Although the President of the Government has listed some measures and I think it would be very useful and encouraging to discuss this in order to hear what the prospects are, last but not least, this could be an incentive especially for young people, whom we know are the most lacking jobs, that they often go to work abroad, that they study more precisely because they do not get a job, so I think they could give people additional hope and expectation that something is going on in the field of new jobs, but they would also hear what those proposals are to promote the economy in the future. I therefore suggest to all that we support this initiative, as I say, this could also be a new hope and an incentive that something is also happening in the area of promoting new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you. Here too, I find that there is no interest in explanations of vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Dragutin Mate, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question of Mr Dragutin Mate, on the question of driving an official vehicle with blue lights on. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to take a closer look at the issue that I have raised as a question, and I have not received an answer to some parts. Drivers who drive ministers who are not protected by police officers and are not protected in this sense, as people imagine, are driven by drivers who do not have training to drive vehicles with blue lights. The Minister did not give me a clear answer to this part, nor did he tell me how this will be settled in the future, so I think that the justification of using blue lights in driving at any time, anywhere, because someone is in a hurry to get up and go to work, to be thoroughly renewed or to make the regulations in such a way that they are clear. I therefore propose that we hold this debate and that, together with this debate, we come up with the changes we need in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you, too. Here too, I note that there is no interest in further explanation of vote, so we are moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Senk Plitčanič to Mr Zvonk Černač's question on concrete measures to establish the rule of law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to make a procedural proposal. With or as we know from experience that no proposal by the opposition for a general debate will be adopted, given that it is good to respect the principle of efficiency and efficiency, let us vote on all proposals in the same package. Because clearly, intelligence always moves aside. Last year, in the previous composition of the position, it was like this, and now it's in this composition. And why should we be ineffective, inefficient, not make ourselves an ass, for we know nothing will be accepted. In one move, all the suggestions for a general debate are rejected, the matter is closed and we are going to the heat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, for 34, for 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Pukšić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question of Mr Franz Pukšić's question on the intention to reduce the number of municipalities in Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I hope this time you will show Ivan Vogrin's proposal by acting that you think otherwise. I'm not going to talk about content because it's irrelevant that we're talking about content now. The announcement of the abolition of hundreds of Slovenian municipalities, however, I am almost certain that the coalition should be of interest, and that the Minister would tell here how he imagines it. I asked him six indents, six questions, and he didn't even try to answer any questions. Perhaps in order to hear both coalition and opposition Members, because I believe that we would come here at a number of points together and in this way be able to prepare a change of legislation. No one claims that something in this area does not have to be done. We may have different views and views. Let's give him a chance or the opposition gives you a chance to prepare it or to hear it and try to listen, for once. If you're serious, make up your mind, say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you. I note that there are no other people who have been notified for reasons of vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 to 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to Mr Ivan Grill's question on the new approvals of the disputed loans and the irrational operation of the New Ljubljana Bank, a shareholder company. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 35, for 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the abolition of municipalities. Someone wants to explain their voice. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I still say, and I always say that hope is the last to die. In fact, Minister Gregor Virant stepped in front of the cameras and said that we all know that Slovenia could date about 100 municipalities, without analysis, without his ministry, without the Ministry of Finance, did not communicate with the municipalities, nor with the association, nor with the community of Slovene municipalities, and the Slovenian public is on their feet. In particular, those citizens of smaller municipalities, where the number of citizens is less than 5,000, are wondering whether Minister Gregor Virant really wants to destroy what is actually working well in Slovenia. However, there is a system of local self-government, which currently has around 70% of all public investments. This government, I recall, has not yet opened any public investment, nor has any public investment started. And there's something else I didn't mention yesterday in the question yesterday. Dear colleagues and colleagues, former mayors and mayors, there are quite a few excellent former mayors and mayors here, how would you act, how would you know if the minister threatened to abolish your municipality? You have the answer, I know. And that's what's happening today. I will not discuss this here in a broad way, but it is not good for local self-government and it is not good for Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues! Given that Minister Gregor Virant said that he did not open a discussion in the coalition on the reconfiguration of Slovenian municipalities, I think it would be good if we all did it together. It's not just a coalition project, if we go into reconfiguration, then it's a project of all of us, of all 90. Or is it possible that what some people think is just some cast bone that people grab, on the other hand, somehow behind people, this coalition imposes new and new tax burdens on people? Please support my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you, too. I also note from this point of view that there are no notations for explanations of vote below, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Parliament's proposal, Mr Irgl will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Senk Plitčanič, to Mrs Eva Irgl's question on respect for and the rule of law. Anybody want to explain their voice? We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Sam Omerzel to the question of mags. Andrej Viszak in connection with the construction of the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik concerning the Slovenian State Holding. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Senko Plitčanič to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the use of representation funds and education in the courts and the State Prosecutor's Offices. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Iva Dimic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, to Mrs Iva Dimic's question on the rational use of funds for salaries, in accordance with the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. I'm opening the vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik and Minister of Finance Dr Uroš Cufer asked Mr Franz Breznik about the profits of enterprises in majority state ownership. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Breznik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I just raised the question somehow in an interview by the former president of Milan Kučan for Finance Officer in 2002, when he said that the two main system banks, NLB and Novo KBM, should never be sold. This was pressured by the so-called strategy or the path of national interest. As you know, in 2004, a so-called big bang or a large forum of twenty-one of the largest former comrade directors who founded the club of these companies was established. In 2011, the state had to recapitalise both banks with an introduction of approximately EUR 500 million, and from state-owned enterprises, the budget received some EUR seventy million via dividends. The ministers themselves have at least partially given an answer saying that this year's crop of state-owned enterprises will be in the budget of €90 million, and at the same time, as a coalition, you immediately signaled the need to recapitalise both banks with about nine hundred million. So with nine hundred million you've somehow divided a bad bank project that you can say you destroyed or castrated all of these wrong decisions that have somehow botched this state in banks, all of which you've now held a stand and you've given them nine hundred million. I think that this debate is important, it is important for a strategy or some economic policy that this country has led since 2000 or from the end of the 1990s to the moment when we are facing the deepest situation of this financial policy. I believe that it is no laughing matter, that the matter is serious, that it is a serious transformation within this debate, in what direction should we create some new economic policy of this country. I believe that this debate is important, and it is important that citizens and citizens, through direct transfer, learn how their money has leaked into the pockets of former comrade directors and why we are here today where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you, too. I note that there is no longer interest in explanations of vote, so we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Dragutin Mate, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal, to the question of Mr Dragutin Mate, on the implementation of school programmes in primary schools. Anybody want to explain their voice? I'm guessing not, so we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 45. (For the vote was 33.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufar, to Mr Ljub Žnidar's question on the resolution of the banking system. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. (For the vote was 32.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Dragutin Mate, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to Mr Dragutin Matei's question on the diplomatic and consular network of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the Minister responded very correctly to me in the part of the reply, and he also said in his reply that 10 other diplomats also met the conditions for retirement, except for the condition of the number of years of work. Of course, the problem is not that they do not have enough working time; the problem is that they have acted as part of their careers, some 4, some 10, some even more years in the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs of the former Joint State and, according to the Ministry officials, this working time is not counted during working hours. This violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. All working hours in the former SFRJ area must be counted during working hours and I therefore propose that we hold this debate, discuss this and expect the Minister to act in accordance with the law and the Constitution and to give all ten employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the same rulings he has given to Mr Rupl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you, too. I'm guessing there's no more interest or interest. Mrs. Klasincheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u187	While I will vote against this decision, I think it is unnecessary for the entire National Assembly to discuss the matter arising from the ZUJF adopted by the previous government and put these diplomats in such a position. The new government is already preparing to correct this issue and only then will it be possible for the Foreign Minister to allow those diplomats who have done part of their working time at the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs to retire because most of them want to retire but do not have the conditions met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u188	Thank you, too. The voice also wants to explain Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this matter. But I came by mainly for the reason that you were deceiving me so that I didn't have words. The law is very clear, the worker and the chairman can agree on an extension. So Dr. Rupel and Mr. Erjavec can agree, but everything else is a political bluff. I'll back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-18-SDZ6-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you. I note that there are no more votes to explain the vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. (For the vote was 32.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 15th session, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
