ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Dragutin Mate and Mag. Matthew Tonin. I welcome all those present once again. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 by means of an urgent procedure. We continue to discuss Article 45 and the amendments tabled in this Article. We have three amendments, namely the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Yesterday we listened to two interesting discussions on this subject, and I must admit that after Mrs Kociper's discussion I took a little look at my account to make a contribution to the Ljubljana Municipality, so emotional was this performance. But my memory goes back a little bit, and that's why I printed the 2008 tables when we introduced the provinces. I'm afraid I don't have any more recent information. Let me remind you of these relations between the Municipality of Ljubljana and other parts of Slovenia. At times I also had the feeling that some outside the Ljubljana City Oblast never came to see the rest of Slovenia, but to remind you that we are from 1995 to 2005 – unfortunately there is no better data – and also later passed a number of laws that in one way or another meant to reduce the differences between parts of Slovenia. There's nothing left. Data for these 10 years show that central Slovenia, according to the gross social product, has progressed by 88%, although it was already at the time of the establishment of the municipality and other municipalities of Ljubljana that had the highest gross social product. The Zasavska region, for example, is behind 51% for Ljubljana. Don't let me kill you with those numbers. This means that if we look globally across regions of Slovenia, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u3	Mr Gorenak, I am sorry to interrupt, but I would like to warn the Members and Members to listen to the debate. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Thank you very much. This means that all the other regions at the time, Koroška, Zasavska, Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Notranjska, even Goriška and Coastal-Kraška, went back to Ljubljana. That should tell us a lot. If we look at another very interesting table – we made it then, and we talk about the relationship between Ljubljana and other parts of Slovenia. If we did an unwanted action that no one wants, and in some way is not even feasible, Ljubljana's development stopped at 0 in 2009, then the regions in Slovenia would need about the next – Prekmurje 34 years to reach Ljubljana, Zasavje 31 years and so on. I would like to point out that there is no way to do this, nor does anyone want to. Ljubljana must also go on, that is a fact, but it is not possible to force Ljubljana in this way, as it has done by 2007 and as the coalition wants to do now. Let me give you two more details. In just 6 years, from 2000 to 2006 – unfortunately I have no more recent data – the number of active people in Ljubljana has increased by 34 000. What does that mean? This means that people from parts of Slovenia are moving to Ljubljana, while the number of active people, say, in Notranjska fell by a thousand 500. It also fell in Zasavje for 3,000, fell in the Lower Posava region for 3,000 and so on. What does that mean? This means that people are moving to Ljubljana because there is a better life — nothing else — but despite all the measures we have taken. The amendment discusses how much funding will go to Ljubljana, and yesterday it was heard what a terrible injustice was committed in 2006 and 2007 in Ljubljana City Municipality, when it was taken away from it by EUR 60 million. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. If that were true, then until today we would "take" Ljubljana half a billion, 480 million in particular, but I say the opposite. From 2005 to 2007, Ljubljana had a privileged position and had unjustifiably received 720 million. This 720 million is then reflected in all these figures, and we see how Ljubljana has progressed and not all other parts of Slovenia. It is important to remind Mrs Kociper – I do not know if she sees outside the Ljubljana bypass – that we have separate areas of Slovenia where there is no water. We have individual parts of Slovenia where women or men still carry water, you know, with that base and "ajmar" on their head, as they call it, because they don't have water. We still have areas of Slovenia where they do not have electricity. We still have areas of Slovenia where they do not know what asphalt is. We still have areas of Slovenia where the cell phone doesn't ring. This is also the neighboring village where I live alone. This is Zibika, who was severely destroyed by the earthquake in the 1970s. That's not where the phone works! It works Croatian, which has to be paid more. You should also be reminded that many parts of Slovenia do not know what the Internet is. That's what they saw if they saw it on TV, if they had it and if they got the signal. This is not how we can talk, but not because we would advocate taking something away from Ljubljana – far from it, Ljubljana is also my capital, and I am also in favour of the development of Ljubljana. But it is not the Ljubljana people's privilege to be as obvious as the coalition wants. This is ugly, because then it has to be added that the left policy option is better chosen there because 70% of the people go to the elections, and the obvious that this is what you're hearing about buying elections is quite justified. I think it suggests thinking and attracting what Mr Frangež said yesterday, which invited him, what time it was for someone to carry him around. It is necessary to go in some more normal direction towards the development of the whole of Slovenia, not just Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u5	Thank you. There's still a desire to discuss it if I've got it right. I invite you to report. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I also believe that this amendment is extremely important, because we need to ensure that Slovenia does not become as centralised as the intention of the current government. For some time now, we have observed that practically all orders from the mayor of the Ljubljana municipality of Mr Jankovic are being translated into records, into laws, violations of the Constitution and of the law on government. This must be strongly resisted because it is absolutely true that the situation is reversed, as shown in Positive Slovenia and in Ljubljana County, that Ljubljana is damaged. In Ljubljana, all the taxes and other things are flowing. Even when you walk down the streets of Ljubljana, you see that people here have money and that money runs over the edge. Secondly, where we come from alone, the situation is much like the one presented by the speaker. Being insensitive to such a situation in Parliament seems unheard of to me, because, last but not least, we are Members accountable to all the people. Even if the members of Positive Slovenia, who are also city councillors, are given orders from their mayor that they must cripple this country at the expense of his orders to act, we must resist. Yesterday, I saw that, at last, in the party of Social Democrats, they also saw that such an order, such a dictatorship was inappropriate, that it was at the expense of virtually the whole of Slovenia, and that it would be signed at the last stage under these unilateral ultimatums, which were poured into the ZIPRO and so on. In this regard, I am also interested in yesterday's event, which led to the immediate suspension of the meeting of the National Assembly, because you could not agree, and then you concluded a temporary truce. I wonder if this truce is still going on or if you've already violated it. I see that the main actors, Mr Frangež and Mrs Maša Kociper, were temporarily invited not to attend the meeting and not to participate in it, and I am interested in these internal matters! Did you have to go to Jankovic or what's going on?Oh, my God! We need to get this information here, because unfortunately this has a profound impact on the functioning of this government. The government is acting in a strange way! We have now heard on the foreign policy committee that the foreign ministry has not seen the Croatian President coming to the country today to visit, otherwise informal. You're dealing with yourself, with relations, with orders from the Ljubljana Mayor. This is abnormal, and therefore this amendment needs to be confirmed, and you start to function normally and tell us whether you have a peace treaty concluded, or whether this coalition will deal with itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Before I ask you for further discussion, I would like to point out that we are trying to focus in our debates on the content of the amendment. The terms used by Mr Jerovšek in terms of the damage to the functioning of the City Councils certainly do not help to create good solutions in Parliament, so as to expect that the contents of this amendment and the importance of this content for the development of local self-government will be taken into account in further discussions. As this is an interest in the debate, I invite you to apply for a debate. Procedural? Just give me a second to get this operation out of hand. Mr. Presecnik, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I was going to ask that earlier, but also colleague Jerovšek started with this topic. You interrupted the meeting two hours earlier last night. Usually take a break for one or the other. Since the meeting was scheduled to take place by 10 p.m., I wonder what the result of this interruption was and why the interruption was. If there was a break due to the storm yesterday, which was previously among the coalition MPs in the National Assembly, I wonder whether they were called for the assistance of firefighters and civil protection, or whether there are any measures. One would expect some amendments to the bench today or at least one would explain what happened. I must say that I did not discuss Ljubljana, so this is your case, which is what you discussed. I have already discussed these two amendments, which we have tabled and two other Members. But something's true. The second week when we will discuss the compatibility or incompatibility of the parliamentary and secular functions – just yesterday and Saturday on the Committee on Finance, it has proved how right I am. Not because I was against it years ago, but because the situation in this mandate has changed significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u9	Thank you. I suspended the meeting on the grounds that we would be able to agree on whether an additional amendment to Article 45 would be in place, because at the moment of closing the debate on the article, it is no longer possible to table amendments. During this period, an agreement has been reached — I can say that at least no additional amendment to this Article will be tabled from the types of parties to the coalition. That's the deal. However, the purpose of the interruption was to allow this procedure to be carried out before I closed the debate on Article 45. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Horvat has been reported before. Can I track this guy down? Mr. Franz Pukšič is the first to have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Secretary of State about this Article and about this amendment. I've already told you yesterday how important it is that we accept this amendment for a number of reasons. I would not repeat this, but I ask you: in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on Local Self-Government, where it says that before the submission of the State budget to the National Assembly, the Government will conclude an agreement with the representative associations of the municipalities setting the average costs for the financing of the tasks referred to in the preceding paragraph – I wonder whether an agreement has been reached, except for what we already know. This, as I have already mentioned, will not be repeated. In view of the situation that happened yesterday in this way, you have afforded yourself more than usual. I don't know if any of the opposition parties could suggest that the hour should end sooner, because, as far as I know, it is a maximum of one hour's rest to come or not to come with any proposal — what you did. In this way it seems obvious that the agreement between the Government and Ljubljana holds and has been expropriated. My friend Frangez is obviously not here today from the protest. Yesterday, a colleague of Möderndorfer told us how many and how many different congregations we have. It's all true. It is also true that there is only one congregation in this country that has an interesting association in the National Assembly. In my opinion it is run by colleague Maša Kociper, and this is the Municipality of Ljubljana, and there is no other. Since you prefer to give it to the city congregation or not to give it — that is the condition. Zoran Jankovic has set the condition and the end, and you are fulfilling that. But that's why you took the fire department. However, you cannot give the firefighters the three million for compensation for the purchase of VAT reimbursement equipment. It would be fairer for Slovenian firefighters to know, even when they decide who will take advantage of them only when they collect and walk around the country, when some people show them the moon in the water, and then because they have seen the moon in the water, clearly at the next moment they will lose, at least in the firefighters, three million, and they have all the other municipalities in that account. I would suggest that, as reported in the newspaper on 4 July this year: in Durs, in the framework of the inspection of the company Elekta Investments, it was found that this would be unjustifiable. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u11	Mr Pukšič, in case you have not noticed, we are in the law on the implementation of the budget and the amendment to Article 45. Please remain with the content of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I even noticed we're on this amendment. I even talked about this amendment at the beginning. I've even been talking about this amendment for a while, but I want to help you, the government coalition, where to spend the budget, how to get to the money. I'm talking about the documents that were published. If you are concerned that the Investment Electricity is due, it has not paid unjustifiably [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] Thank you very much for your exclusion. I still think that Electa should pay those taxes to Durs, and then we have in the budget because the president of the government said that it was necessary [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] in the tax country collected. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u13	I will not comment further because I think that if you want to discuss it properly, it is no problem at all. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say again, the amendment to Article 45, which we signed in New Slovenia – the entire opposition has tabled a similar amendment. Our amendment pursues only one goal. This is consistent regional development or in numbers: we want the average to remain the same for 2015 as this year and as for next year at the level of €536. Dear colleagues, it is true that Dr Gorenak somehow brought me back to the period 2004-2008 or more precisely in 2008, when we wanted to introduce the provinces solely because of consistent regional development in this country. We didn't make it. While we respect people's will in the consultation referendum, today many, especially those from less developed regions, pay this tax. I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, I do not know if the Government has current data today, but at that time we had precise calculations. We also had budgets designed for a particular development landscape. I repeat that if the development of the central Ljubljana region were to be halted in 2008, it would take 34 years for the city's development region to reach the level of development of the Ljubljana region. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm sure there must be something here for you from the Sava region. The Sava region would take 31 years. There must be some of you here from the Notranj-Kraška region. It would take 22 years to reach the central Ljubljana region. We need to talk about numbers, about graphs, and we need to be clear whether we are for coherent regional development or not. I have no problem with the city council of Ljubljana adopting parking tariffs. Yesterday and today I receive texts that 2 euros should be paid for an hour of parking in Ljubljana. These 2 euros mean to some, or not some, but to the crowds half the gross hourly figure. That's what we're talking about. So please have so much understanding and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u15	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm going to open an application for discussion. Before I give you my word, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Government. Matthew Vrančnik to give some answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I have been asked a specific question and would like to answer it. I'm going to repeat the answer I gave yesterday. For 2014, an agreement with the municipalities is concluded. There's an agreement last year. We will continue our discussions for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Yesterday we were able to listen to a rather emotional discussion of what we took MOL and how hard it is to live, but in this debate she forgot to mention some strange remittances from the City Hall at Grep August 2011. MOL credited 4 million to this company, which is now missing or bankrupt. All who donate and help and work in the city congregation end up in red numbers or bankruptcy. MOL then credited 4 million to Grep. This is the same day I think half a million pointed to Bazo Dante and Base Dante then to KLM, a company owned by the majority of Zoran Jankovic, the mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. If the Municipality of Ljubljana needs money to carry out such transactions and spend money untransparently, as the Tax Administration has also found, and nothing will happen from there – so much about the good and effective justice system you are talking about – it is probably not right or it is only right for Positive Slovenia. So I will support our amendment, and I hope you will do the same for the rest of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Bell Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Yesterday, when we heard an explanation of the average for 2015, the Secretary of State said that this reduction was supposed to be due to a reduction in wages in 2015. If this is €10 per capita and about 12% of the cost of salaries in the municipal administration, this means that in 2015 wages should go down by 15% and in 2014 by 1% in the public administration. That's it, then. It's probably a little bit different at the expense of, I don't know, kindergarten teachers and stuff. But if it's on the government's account, it's 15%. I think you're really gonna have to talk to the congregations in 2015. If this year is before the elections, a 15% reduction in salaries in the public sector or administrations, and that it will be the same in the state administration, then I do not know if you will wait for 2015 with the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u21	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that there is no wish, so I am concluding the debate. We're moving on to the debate. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? I concluded the debate. I looked around the hall and found that no one had expressed interest in discussing this by going to the debate on Articles 46 and 76 and on the amendments tabled by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. Since the amendments of New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party also refer to Article 76, the open debate is open for both Article 46 and Article 76. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you very much. To be honest, I discussed it last night, but it was one night. I believe we've already lost some of that memory. This amendment to Article 46 speaks of investment funds to be received by municipalities [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u23	We're out of time to discuss. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me remind you that the Public Finance Balance Act, under one of the emergency austerity measures, has reduced the level of co-financing of investments in municipalities by 6% of the total eligible consumption of municipalities, as provided for in Article 21 of the Community Financing Act, to 4%. All of this was then agreed in yesterday’s agreement with the representative associations of the congregations. This was an agreement between then, our Government of the Republic of Slovenia and between the municipalities. The municipalities then gave up about 200 million euros. I exactly think the number is 199 million, but an agreement was reached because the congregations understood that they had to contribute to saving in that country. A further reduction in funding for municipalities from 4% to 2% will, in our opinion, have a direct impact on the reduction of economic activity in the country. The largest share of investments in the country is co-financed by municipalities. By reducing funds for these purposes, the municipality will not be able to implement some of the projects already planned and already started. As a result of this legislative intervention in the financing of municipal investments, municipalities will in many cases be forced to pay contractual penalties, so we propose, colleagues and colleagues, that they remain funding to co-finance the investments of municipalities in the next two fiscal years at 4% of the total eligible consumption of municipalities. Let us not forget, today it runs between 70% and 80% of all public investments in the municipalities. I guess we don't like it now. Clearly, this is what the proposer of this law wants to bring down these solutions. What's going to happen and where else is he going to invest? Please, think about it. Once again, we all know that in local communities – some of you were mayors, successful mayors, saints, some of you are saints – in most cases local investments really look at every euro. Supervision of investments is significantly better than in large state investments. I'm asking for your support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Thank you. The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. I will absolutely support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Indeed, we believe that the coalition and the government of Alenka Bratušek are unjustifiably reducing funds to finance the investments of the municipalities. As we know, three quarters of all investments are carried out in municipalities, and by cutting investment funds, this means that some of the projects already under way, for which funds are provided, including from cohesion or European funds, will in fact be at risk. The Association of Municipalities of Slovenia also warned you about this. This increases the differences between developed and less developed municipalities, and by reducing the source legally allocated to municipalities on the basis of the municipality's developmental hazard index, you will actually threaten the weakest. I will return to the record between the Government and the Municipality of Ljubljana. Apparently, municipalities that are small, medium and do not have such strong connections within the Government will be compromised by lowering the rate of the average investment rate, while, on the other hand, by certain interventions, you will provide funds to the Municipality of Ljubljana. Let me remind you of Decision No 6 on the basis of which the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will regulate the area of co-financing of investments in kindergartens, the role of co-financing of the College project, the agreement on the placement of the Sport and Education Museum in the Centre Stožice, because obviously the Contingency is not viable, and the conclusion 10 on the call for European funds, which has been published, with the advantage of the Cerar–Pegan–Petkovšek gymnastics centres and Ilirija, which should apply to national projects – this is unacceptable, since this increases the differences between the less developed municipalities and the City Municipality of Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u28	Thank you very much again. With our amendment, we want to delete the first and second paragraphs of Article 46, which state that funding under Article 21 for municipalities should be reduced by half by 2% of the eligible expenditure. Since these funds are distributed in proportion to the development of the congregations, they will significantly reduce the loss of the city’s municipalities. It has about a third of all people in Slovenia. According to the table we received from the Ministry, the city halls of 21 million, which the state is supposed to save from nearly 22 million with this 21st article, would lose only 2 million, a million 984 thousand, which is only 9%. More than one third of the population will lose 9% of the eligible consumption, and two thirds will lose 19 million 950. If we look at this per capita: municipalities of 2.86 euros per capita for investments and other municipalities of 14.75 euros, which is 5 times more! Now tell me where these rumors, especially the SD from the previous mandate, are about coherent regional development! If we look at the individual municipalities – I did a review for South-Eastern Slovenia, for this statistical region – for example, the Municipality of Kostel loses 9.8% of the eligible consumption, the municipality of Osilnica 10.3%, the municipality of Žužemberk, which has municipal infrastructure in terrible condition, because the brigades built a water supply, 3.4% of the eligible consumption, Črnomelj, one of the major municipalities, 4%, and the municipality of former mayor of Brunskola, 3% of the eligible consumption. We know they've got the white-screen plumbing, they've got big investments. In addition, all municipalities have budgets adopted for 2013 and 2014, two-year budgets in which they had to provide their own funds for cohesion projects. We now take from them about 20% of the funds available in the budget to these rural municipalities. Now tell me what will happen – we don't know what will happen in 2015 if they don't provide these own funds. We know that there are quite a number of calls and that European funds are available because they have not been exhausted so far for such and other reasons. Now, however, the congregations do not have the resources to draw on and carry out these projects. Who's gonna pay that money back? Who will repay those 85% of European funds back – investors, and these are municipalities. Believe me, Mr Stepišnik will not be comfortable in 2015 when he realises that a few hundred million European funds will remain in the middle of the year. I'm sure it will. If these 19 million for these congregations are such a problem in this country that there will remain a few hundred million European funds on this account, I do not think so. There are very few words to be heard in this mandate on coherent regional development, unfortunately. However, the previous term was full of the mouths of all of you, especially on the other side, but the elections in the countryside did not come out the most. Now the rural municipalities must be destroyed, these projects stopped. In the end, it will only be the municipalities and the mayors, and no one else. I think this is unfair to rural communities and to those who run most of the investments. However, if we now make a table of how many investments rural municipalities and municipalities are taking in the field of compulsory public economic services - I speak in the field of compulsory public economic services, not in various monuments and unnecessary facilities. I think that this amendment should be supported and that these funds should be replaced elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest, so I'm inviting you to report it. Before I give my word to the applicants, she will also have the opportunity to speak with a representative of the Government. I'll give you the word "magic" first. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 46 deals with the issue of investment transfers under Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Communities. This is only part of the investment transfers received by municipalities from the state budget and in the event that these investment transfers continue to be made to municipalities in 2014 at the level set out by the ZUJF, this would amount to 44 million investment transfers. If the amendments of the SDS Group are taken into account, this would mean that this amount will be applied for 2014 and 66 million for 2015, as the investment transfer to municipalities under Article 21 of the Community Financing Act. The proposed Article 46 reduces this part of investment transfers to municipalities to €22 million, in the light of the decline in public spending as such. However, these are not the only investment transfers that municipalities receive from the state budget. Out of the total amount of investment transfers to budgetary users provided for in the 2014 and 2015 draft budget, 473 million for 2014 and 498 million for 2015, approximately two thirds of these amounts are disposed of or approximately two thirds of these amounts belong to the municipalities. It should also be noted that Article 76 is included in the draft law in order to prevent situations previously pointed out by Mr Horvat – that contracts already concluded should be cancelled and that they should therefore pay the penalty – since it is provided to municipalities which, at the time of the entry into force of the law, had already concluded contracts with the contractor in order to provide them with additional funds up to a total of 4% of the total eligible expenditure, as provided for by the Public Finance Balance Act. Finally, it should be pointed out that data on the use of funds in municipalities following these transfers under Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities show that only a small part of the municipality uses these transfers to co-finance projects that are largely financed by European funds and that they are used to a large extent for investments at their own discretion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u31	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We fully understand that this is part of the co-financing of municipal investments. However, it is painful that this part actually falls by 50%, from 4% to 2% of the appropriate consumption. That's painful. If I calculate the average, this is for each municipality – but this average doesn't say much – 100,000 euros per year. See, these two articles, paragraphs 46 and 45, mentioned earlier, the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 – laid down these two articles are very brutal for local self-government, for municipalities. This is probably why Mrs Alenka Bratušek or her cabinet refused to accept representative associations of Slovenian municipalities. I thank the Ministry of Finance for talking to these associations. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek just slammed the door in their face. That's not good. If Dr. Virant, with his idea of deleting about half of the municipalities, stepped back a little while after he burned his profession and when we started threatening to interpolate, then I can say that this moment of the municipality de iura does not quit, but they do. And people live a de facto life. It's de facto. In fact, the congregations are being abolished by these legal provisions. That's not good. However, I only ask you, Slovenia is not only the Central Slovenian region, but they are also extremely eastern, extremely western, extremely northern and extremely southern. These are also Slovenian. As strong as these municipalities on the outskirts of Slovenia will be, our country will be as strong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Thank you, too. The next one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, we are witnessing one rather sad process. There's a decline in the average of municipalities. The municipalities shall not be given the opportunity to regulate, within the framework of the tasks and powers they have, the standards for what they pay. The municipalities are now being reduced by half the share of co-financing of investments, and the municipalities are also being further burdened by the property tax. With these measures taken by this government, municipalities are becoming more and more like administrative units when we have only one administration there, in this case for the transfer of revenue for certain purposes, and nothing else. As the independence of the municipality decreases — which is actually the case — their ability to influence local development also decreases, their potential to attract the investments that are urgently needed reduces their absorption capacity to draw on European funds. It would be interesting to know how many of these measures, which you are introducing only with this correction of the law on the implementation of the budget, with real estate tax, reduce the potential of municipalities to draw on European funds. I think that the municipalities will be able to draw about half of the European resources available only because of these measures that you have taken for 2014. However, you have planned to significantly increase the use of European funds in the revenue part of the budget. Completely uncoordinated measures! This budget is done only to gather funds on these European items, which should otherwise go through different policies and be distributed across everything, with only municipalities being given the option, and then this will only be distributed to those who can get it, as it has done, for example, for the case of Stožice. These measures, which are now proposed by the Government in the law on the implementation of the budget and relate to the municipalities, only significantly increases the dependence of local self-governments on government officials. There will be those who will decide even more sovereignly what someone will be able to do and what they will not be able to do. This concept is completely the opposite. With the following real estate law, the government will reach into the fundamental independence of local government by taking away or charging property taxes from many congregations. The key independent item of local self-government is independent budgetary resources and availability. By reducing these independent budget resources, you increase the dependency of the congregations, the rigidity of the congregations. By doing so, they will be able to finance only mandatory tasks under the Local Self-Government Act. The transferees will not be able to finance, except to implement investment policy — what is the primary purpose and primary role of the municipalities. When you make the income of the congregations equal to the mandatory tasks, then we have at the end of the administrative unit, nothing else. They only stamp documents, decide, accept and so on, but cannot carry out any activities in the field of investment. That's exactly what you're doing. This is where everything goes, in the direction of concentration and doing some, I'm going to say, amorphic creations that will ultimately be just a net cost. It's not gonna happen. The task of the State is to create such an organisational structure and a model that those we have given them the opportunity to have their own congregation will also be able to carry out tasks of developmental importance there. By doing so, when you propose these solutions, you are essentially shutting down all the municipalities and keeping only those to whom you, the Office and the State Administration will be pleased to devote the money that is intended for all, to individual projects. The division into one region and another also means exactly that. There will also be only three or four centres coming out that will participate in this money, which will have the only potential to make participation. What's the effect, say, on the Cube? See, calculate what this approach means, say, in the law on the implementation of the budget for the Municipality of Kočev, how much more this municipality can run for European projects. Or a pond or something. Look at this. If now funds for mandatory tasks were around 60% and with up to 100 added funds for the investment work, this independence will now fall substantially, about 80% of the budget will be blocked and only that smallness will remain so that municipalities can run for development funds and ensure participation in projects that will not be able to be very high after that, because there will be no mass available for the implementation of investments. So I am very opposed to such solutions that you have proposed in the law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President. I have waited for the debate to respond, however, to Mrs Ramšak's false statements. Without convincing her, because she had already heard the reasoning on the committee. Ms Ramšak referred again to a record and some conclusions that do not exist at all. The conclusions, exactly you, for this number referred to by Mrs Ramšak, do not exist in the official record existing between the Government and the Municipality of Ljubljana. I can only say once again that I do not know whether this record has been taped, copied, completed, framed, or accidentally received a wrong record – I will not judge, but we have warned several times that they are reading the texts from the unofficial record. This seems incorrect to me, and I want to explain to everyone who may be listening to us that these allegations are not true and that these conclusions do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Replica has Mr. Tanko. By all accounts, Mrs Masha Kociper did not understand correctly, so I expect him to explain it in the replica. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u38	Thank you very much. As Mrs Kociper points out, I have to say, they don't. The record I have before me is a record of 23. 7. and was written and signed by one of the members of the delegation of the Municipality of Ljubljana. What you say is a record is a report on the implementation of this minutes. 9. 9. you have issued a document stating that some matters have already been settled. This can be no different than the report on the implementation of the minutes or the implementation of the agreement, on the implementation between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Look at you and not fool the public that we did something wrong. This document was published, and no one denied it not to stand. Also a document from 9. 9. is true, but it is a report on implementation. Just look at the individual points and you'll see what you're up to in the time of 23. 7. When this record was made, until 9. 9. already implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Thank you. Is there still interest in the debate? [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? It's not gonna be possible to replicate the replica. It's possible to sign up for the debate, so I'm inviting you to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u40	Mr. Tanko, you have your version of the truth. Here I have a record of the meeting between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the municipal municipality – no review of the conclusions, implementation of the conclusions. In this minutes, the conclusions given in numbers 4, 25, 60 and 61 have a completely different content from that given by you. There's not even a decision number 61. These other conclusions, as stated above, are not in the form that you stated. I suggest we stop arguing, but I'm not going to give up on the point that you're saying it's really something that's not true. There's only one version of the official record. Which you have, I don't know, I won't judge as I say, and according to this version of the conclusions that your Members are referring to, it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Thank you. Before I invite you to apply for the debate, I would like to remind you that there is no way to start the debate before the deadline for the application expires, because we also have no record of who applied for the debate and problems arise. Since it is an interest in the debate, I invite you to discuss it. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. In a note on the record between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipality of Ljubljana, it was agreed, and this was the date 23. 7. to enable the Ministry of Finance to use the Ljubljana City Municipality computer program to pay the third quarter of the pay gap, as the MOL has settled its case on the basis of a union action. That was an open question. In the note from 9. 9. reads that this Decision has been implemented. Some more, Mrs Kociper, I can list you which are treated equally. 23. 7. These were open items, and 9.9 were written "executed", meaning that this is a report on the implementation of the minutes, not an agreement on what happened at the meeting between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u43	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Novi Slovenija we find and claim that the system of local self-government is extremely important. You are probably representative of associations of Slovenian municipalities, this is the association and community of Slovenian municipalities, but they deserve to have on the other hand, when it comes to radical changes in the legislation, on the other side of the table as an associate with the President of the Government. In a joint letter dated 24 October, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia addressed to the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a request and a request for a ministerial meeting with representatives of representative associations of municipalities to meet together with representatives of the representatives of the municipalities to take note of the decisions adopted at the All-Slovenian Meeting of Mayors on 23 October in Celje and to seek together the answers to a number of open questions. In these associations, it is said that, on 25 October, a letter was received from the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stating that the letters they received mainly resulted in disagreement with the envisaged method of financing the municipalities, which, according to the assessment of the municipalities, affected the general situation of the municipalities. They are asked from the Cabinet to coordinate with the Ministry of the Interior in solving the problem. This is an official document, official information, and this indicates a slight – I really choose the words – the attitude of the President of the Government to Slovenian municipalities. That's not good. The municipalities had a proposal on how, but the final solution is always a matter of discussion and negotiation. The Prime Minister simply rejected the views of these registered representatives. These are, for the time being, the only associations of Slovene municipalities, the Association of Slovene municipalities and the Community of Slovene municipalities, which have the status of representativeness. Last week I checked, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, which allegedly arose, does not have representation status. So much in the knowledge of this respected assembly as well as of the Slovenian public. I conclude by calling, with the request of the President of the Government, not to neglect the local self-government system, to take it as a credible interlocutor, because it is a system of local self-government, which is the only one that works as well in this country! It seems that these legislative changes, which the ruling coalition is likely to accept regardless of where the MPs and Members come from, will de facto begin to break down the system of the Slovenian local government. This is bad, ladies and gentlemen, for this country. But to anyone who has a bad heart, it will surely support them. We, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 64 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u46	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that Article 64 of the ZIPRO be deleted – we have several arguments for this. The first argument is that this provision is already in the Slovenian State Holding Act. It is estimated that it does not need to be repeated in ZIPRO. The second argument, which according to the Minister of Finance on Saturday on the Committee, is that this article is not necessary in the ZIPRO itself. However, the third largest argument to me is that the second paragraph of this Article covers a broader issue, such as the Slovenian State Holding Act, namely that the capital and pension company owns 10% of the purchase from the sale of state-owned capital investments and only those investments that are classified or owned by the holding company. I think this is a dangerous matter that will be detrimental to the country, so I also expect coalition Members to follow the SDS proposal and also the proposal of a minister who estimates that this article is not necessary. Above all, it is problematic that this article extends the possibility of purchasing Kad. I think it's a shame, because the purchases are primarily designed to pay off the debt. In Slovenia, the interest will be almost EUR 1 billion in 2014. I would also mention the incorrectness of DeSUS's position, which was mentioned by ZIPRO yesterday, that the intention of every single authority, irrespective of its political affiliation, is an asset which is essentially intended to ensure the stability of the pension fund in the long term. I think that DeSUS was incorrect here, because it has to be said that under the government of Janez Janša in the Slovenian State Holding Act it was included that 10% of the purchases of SDH-owned investments belonged to the pension register. I propose that DeSUS solve the problem in the current coalition, because there will be no such purchase after a new proposal. I strongly oppose such a flat-rate view of DeSUS that all governments are alike. The government of Janez Janša was not like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Thursday, 14 November 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's on a stand-by motion for a property tax under the emergency procedure. Let me give you an explanation first. With regard to this item on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia parliamentary groups have tabled, pursuant to Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for the postponement of this item on the agenda of the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In this regard, I also gave a written reply, which was published on the e-club. It follows from this reply that this proposal for a postponement cannot be decided. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I'm asking if the representative of the government wants to present the bill. Mr. Jože Tanko has a procedural record before this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the explanation you provided, which you briefly summarized, why this proposal is not possible in business – we disagree with it. Not particularly because this consideration of the real estate law is for discussion and for the implementation of the meeting for about a week. We're not in any weather. Secondly, in your explanation, you wrote something that we don't refer to. We didn't propose the withdrawal of the item from the agenda, but the postponement. What you have written in your explanatory statement that withdrawal is not possible in accordance with Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not true, since this provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly applies only when the item is placed on the agenda at the request of one of the opposition parliamentary groups. It shall not apply to any other Member. This is the right of each opposition party to have at least one item on the agenda at each meeting of the National Assembly, provided that it has proposed them for the procedure. This has nothing to do with the right of the coalition. The coalition has all the other tools. I propose that, because of all that is going on with this law, because of all the protests, all the blockades of the interest groups that would like to say anything about this law, this minimum issue of the postponement of the matter from this meeting be approved, especially because, if I only remember you, you have said that this law is not an integral part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that the completeness of the budget will not be affected in any way after your statement of 2 October. I propose that this request of the opposition parliamentary groups be accepted by all three, and that we make this minimum effort necessary to bring the individual solutions into line. After the law is passed, the matter is difficult. Now that we are in the process of addressing the amendments, we can, on the basis of interviews, on the basis of opinions, on the basis of all the things that will open up, correct, improve and make the law more acceptable. But if we go just as violently over the process, it probably can't end well. Therefore, I propose, the President of the National Assembly, that this request be met and that you allow this matter to be dealt with at the end of one week.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u49	Thank you. Allow me to perhaps further explain my position that I cannot put your proposal to the vote. If you are saying that in my reply we are talking about the withdrawal of this item of the agenda, however, we need to make it clear that in your request you are stating that the postponement of the consideration and decision on the proposal for a real estate tax law is one of the following meetings. We can understand whether this is a withdrawal or a postponement, but you have written down the postponement, and if we want to postpone this point to one of the following meetings, then it means that there is no way to deal with it if we vote. However, if we go to this vote, we certainly are in violation of the Constitution. Indeed, the Constitution obliges us to hold an extraordinary meeting, as requested by Members. This is a constitutional category, and if I put your proposal to the vote, then my conduct would be contrary to the Constitution. However, I would like to draw your attention to what is also stated in my reply that if there were to be a decision on your proposal in the National Assembly, then it would never be possible to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly required by the opposition in the future. In fact, the coalition will always be able to decide, by a majority of votes, to postpone the points of the extraordinary meeting you demand as an opposition. This, however, is an exceptional intervention in the work of the National Assembly, and as President, I must primarily protect the minority, which is the opposition. If I put your proposal to the vote, it will never be possible to hold an extraordinary meeting that the opposition would require. This is totally unacceptable for the work of the National Assembly, and this is a grave intervention in democracy and, in particular, the opportunity and task that the opposition has in carrying out democracy in the National Assembly. The real insistence on this vote is further to the detriment of the opposition, to the detriment of democracy and also to the constitutional category which obliges us to hold extraordinary meetings. Procedurally, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u50	The Slovenian People's Party is among the signatories to this procedural proposal for a simple reason, because the Government and later the College of the President of Parliament have decided on this urgent procedure, which simply does not allow enough time for such a demanding system law as is now before us, to be adopted on the basis of a normal democratic proposal. As you have certainly noticed, this proposal, in this short time available to people, is opposed by a large number of people. At the time when the coalition was first coordinated for a long time when the power was to reach the final proposal, and when no appeals, or individual associations of craftsmen, associations of farmers, associations of unemployed people, associations of pensioners, parliamentary parties, non-parliamentary parties, were made, it also joined in collecting signatures of a petition against such a law and in implementing this law in such a way. No one is saying that it is against the law on real estate, but we are saying that it is absolutely impossible, with so many paradoxes, with so much nonsense as this law contains, which are more than obvious, which we can also talk about on the committee – that this is simply unacceptable and that we should not allow such a path in the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, proposals have also been tabled at this time by our parliamentary panel to deal with, at least, interested working bodies. This did not give him room, except for the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, no other committee, nor the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, the Committee on Space which is competent. This is how these procedures are distorted. 65,000 people are already signed under petition. A petition against the privatisation of water resources was signed in Europe this year. 1.5 million Europeans signed the petition. That means it's every 333. The European signed, and there was sufficient wisdom, enough democratic listening, for the European Parliament, when it received the petition, to refer it to the Commission, and the Commission found that such a procedure should not be continued. 65,000 people are every 30. Slovenian. Ten times more is proportional to Slovenia and the Slovenians against this law, such as those of Europeans against that water directive, those water resources management directives. Unfortunately, this shows that the obvious level of democracy in Slovenia is at least ten times lower than the average in Europe, and what you are doing as a coalition in the National Assembly is not an honour, and it will certainly bring a lot of problems to Slovenia if this law is also enforced.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Terminologically, it is not possible to define the requirement as a postponement to one of the following meetings, since we have a regular meeting convened in between. There may be other meetings in between, and according to the dictates, the logic of the Rules of Procedure is this at one of the following meetings. By writing this proposal, we are without prejudice to any provision of the Rules of Procedure or Violations, as an extraordinary meeting must be convened and carried out within 15 days. In your reply, you wrote that this deadline is due to expire on 19 November, and that is until the expiry of the deadline of 6 days. There is no problem in not doing what needs to be done in this law at that time. The meeting is not convened on the last day — that would be the problem, which we both surely agree on — and the deadline has not yet expired. This opportunity to make a public presentation of the opinions to discuss with interested groups in order to come up with better solutions to the law, which will be more acceptable to people, is probably worth taking advantage of. The urgency, as you now afford it, is only an additional problem for the credibility and openness of this coalition. Therefore, I propose that you agree with our proposal, put a proposal to the vote and that, by the end of the deadline or on the day of expiry, on 19 November, we bring this matter to fruition, and in the meantime, let us make use of this time for what has been lost in this law, as Mrs Pótrá says. The democratic deficit here is highly undernourished. This will not violate any right, not the right of the opposition, because it has not proposed this law. Nor will the 15-day deadline of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be violated, and we will do all the things that have been and are not – that is why the pressures of the public, civil society, civil society associations and so on are so great. I think that there is no problem for what we are proposing, Mr President. This initiative of ours should be taken with great gratitude and made possible what the Government would probably avoid under the impression of great homogeneity. But the problems are great. Political problems are huge. Also financial for those affected by this or will be major financial problems. Congregations, virtually all families, will be affected, with a disproportionately large majority. I propose that you put this proposal to the vote and that we seize the time until the 15-day deadline for the tasks still to be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Once again, I would like to make it very clear that in your request you are stating that the decision is postponed to one of the following meetings. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided to convene an extraordinary meeting. He also set out the time available to us and in which we must hold this extraordinary meeting, and that is within that prescribed constitutional time limit. We could go to the extreme time, on an extreme date, but we decided to adjust the work of the National Assembly in a way that we could make all these discussions as easily as possible, and we did not wait for the last day written in the constitution. However, if we vote today that, for example, we are dealing with this law at a new extraordinary session, we are certainly in violation of the Constitution. I would like to draw your attention to this, especially to the good work of the National Assembly and, in particular, to the work of the opposition in the National Assembly, once again, because the coalition could once again vote on the requirement to hold an extraordinary meeting. I must also inform you that such a proposal would be feasible if the applicants of the emergency meeting agreed. To date, I have not received any notice that the proposer for an extraordinary meeting would agree to postpone this. Without this agreement, we are certainly interfering with the constitutional category that I am mentioning – that we are obliged to call and hold an extraordinary meeting on the proposal of Members and Members. All the other interpretations, once again, have a grave impact on the democratic process, on the work of the National Assembly and are certainly contrary to the Constitution. That is why I will not take this procedural proposal into account. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. But I only hope that we will think again and again in the vote, because we find that we have a week left and that we have certainly all, especially a coalition, a lump in our throat when we adopt such an extremely important system law following an emergency procedure. We all know that when the draft text of the real estate tax law has been presented to the public, Slovenia has actually been on its feet ever since, to yell at farmers, entrepreneurs, espies, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises. True, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia does not in principle oppose him, but is it not enough to take a minute to think about it? They also yell out lawyers who say the law will fall in the Constitutional Court because there are too many legal loopholes. Why not put in a handful of effort to find a good or, above all, a better solution? We all know, and also in New Slovenia we are aware that taxes must be paid, but every law must follow the key elements, including justice and so on. This law is not good, and I therefore call on you to vote in favour of submitting this item to one of the next meetings. At least the moral cat on the side of the coalition won't be as big as it will be if it goes straight to the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u55	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that, without the consent of the proposer, it is not possible to vote on this procedural proposal. Mr. Bogovich, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u56	Yesterday we suspended the meeting at a time when coordination within the coalition was also needed. I propose that we suspend the meeting for 15 minutes or an hour if it is necessary to make this necessary agreement and this piece of wisdom reach out to the coalition to stop the meeting and try to agree in the cooperation of the coalition and the opposition, perhaps at the college with you, and that we correct what we have tried the last time today and do not do this nonsense further.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u57	Thank you. I can interrupt the meeting in 15 minutes, but I would like to remind you that there is an extremely extensive work ahead of us to do today and tomorrow. I have told you that until this moment I have not received agreement from the motioners on the request for an extraordinary meeting. If this willingness you're talking about to make a deal, it would certainly be on the bench today. To this end, I have also responded in writing to your proposal that we have very clear views on what we can do, what we can decide and what we cannot decide. The least problem for me is to interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly in 15 minutes to agree and then continue in accordance with the agreement that will be made there. Before that, Mr Jože Tanko wants a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The agreement of the Members to which you refer is not necessary in this case. I've warned you about this before. The agreement of Members shall only be required where the item is placed on the agenda, at the request of the opposition parliamentary group, in accordance with Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, third paragraph. This item of the agenda is not classified in accordance with this provision of the Rules of Procedure, and this provision of the Rules of Procedure protects only the right of a minority, a party in opposition, to obtain a point on the agenda. This is not a coalition right. I suggest that you do not use such interpretations of the Rules of Procedure because it is not in any connection with Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have arranged the matter so that the meeting is convened within a period of 15 days, this condition is fulfilled. I warned you that if the postponement of the agenda item is voted on, the 15-day deadline, which will only expire on 19 November 2013, can also be respected, not on 13 November, but on 19 November, so you wrote. If you refer to provisions that are not bound by the coalition part and that is at the request of the coalition, then you refer to the wrong legal basis, to the wrong business basis. If that is what you are referring to, then it would be good to have the opinion of the Commission on Rules of Procedure, which should explain it, since the Rules of Procedure are also interpreted by the Business Commission. But what you have afforded is an abuse of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. You can read Article 64, paragraph 3, carefully, or I will read it. The vote on this proposal is procedurally possible and must be carried out. How the coalition votes is its decision. It is not appropriate to withdraw or block the decision because you refer to the rules applicable to the opposition parliamentary group. There are probably 49 votes out of 90 enough to support your proposal if you choose to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr Tanko, but I want to explain. It is true that we are talking about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as a small constitution, but the Constitution is above the Rules of Procedure, and I told you that if we go to the vote, this will be contrary to Article 85 of the Constitution. The 15-day deadline was absorbed when the meeting was convened. A new 15-day deadline begins with the request for a new session. Thus, the constitution at this point is very clear, and I warn you, it also protects the opposition from this precedent that you are proposing. Mr Möderndorfer also wants to take this step.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. For two days now, we have been listening to some new interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, but this last one has really been the most effective for all those who will deal with it and perhaps later write books about how it is possible to look at the matter with even a third eye. I understand that the opposition and the coalition simply do not want to understand the rules of procedure as they should. He'll always be explained in his own way. However, Mr Tanko presented his new kind – that we have in the rules of procedure a candidate of opposition nature and a proposaler of a coalition nature. This is really some new thing that the rules of procedure don't know. The Rules of Procedure only know the proposer, and then list which applicants may be. This is the end of the line. I agree with the President, because we've been expecting these intentions. I can tell you that if such a proposal were put to the vote by the President, the opposition in the National Assembly would no longer have any extraordinary meeting, except that we would meet at the plenary session and then the coalition majority would always vote on what is necessary. I am sure that this coalition is unable to do something like this because I would not understand it, but I am afraid that you, Mr Tanko, when you come back to the coalition, you might even test something like this in the end, whether that is possible. So something like this can't happen. So please start reading the Rules of Procedure again, but not just interpret it in your own way. You have this option, but you also need to understand us that we need to warn you that there are proponents in the National Assembly. Members shall not be divided into first- and second-class candidates, but only candidates, either one or the other parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u61	Thank you. I really hope that we have sufficiently fully explained what happens if we go to the vote. I don't think we need to have an extra conversation at the informal council. Mr. Bogovich, can we understand that?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u62	I'd still ask for 15 minutes to think about it, and I suggest a recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u63	In order to avoid all these dilemmas, I propose that we suspend the meeting in 15 minutes and that we meet in room 217 the leaders of the parliamentary groups and all the members of the College of the President of the National Assembly, where we will first try to listen to the views of the Legislative and Legal Service on the consequences that may arise if we vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u64	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. At the same time, I apologize for the short delay, given the predicted time I ordered for counseling. I would like to inform you that no agreement has been reached on this procedural proposal at this meeting, so that we continue to discuss the proposal for a law. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u65	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! The government has prepared a proposal for a real estate tax law as a systemic long-term measure to fully update the taxation system in Slovenia and address the shortcomings of the existing system. This today represents two main taxes, a compensation for the use of building land and a property tax, and additional mention must be made of the fee for forest roads and the tax on immovable property of higher value – as many as four duties already imposed on real estate. In addition to mutual non-compliance and the various legal bases for these four benefits, the existing system can be seen as being imprudent, uncomparable and under-regulated, all of which reduces the legal security of taxpayers. Therefore, one of the main objectives of the real estate taxation system is to lay down clear rules and restrictions that will apply at national level and to replace the existing four-tax scheme with a real estate tax system. It is proposed that the single tax dose be linked to the central register, that is the real estate register, and that the general market value established for all real estates be determined as a tax base, uniformly by means of a mass valuation system, and that it is uniformly determined by the taxpayers, tax rates, exemptions and reliefs. At the same time, the aim of the new system is to introduce more equitable taxation, and therefore, as a rule, it wants to cover all property with little exceptions and a tax burden, which is found to be relatively low today, only around 0.6% of gross domestic product, to increase moderately. The amendment makes another significant difference in terms of existing duties, namely, the tax, which has so far been exclusive to the municipalities, wants to be redistributed between the municipalities and the state. This preserves the part of the tax that belongs to the municipalities as their original income and provides the State with an additional system tax source. The proposed solutions interfere with the funding system of municipalities, so careful coordination has been carried out with municipalities as a special interest group. Despite the fact that views could not be fully reconciled, an agreement was reached to allow municipalities, as a measure of their own policy, to increase or reduce tax rates by up to 50% with certain restrictions and to provide them with a reliable tax source for a period of three years. During this time, the municipalities will be able to prepare for new rules and appropriate interventions are planned in the municipal funding system, with a special decision being taken by the Government. Coordination with the agricultural sector was particularly intensive. Although full harmonisation has not been achieved in this area, the law includes a solution that places a sustainable burden on this sector, taking into account the specificities of economic activity. Coordination has also been carried out with representatives of the economy and it is estimated that the proposed solution, the tax rate of the current average effective rate of taxation, is an appropriate solution, also bearing in mind that the tax is introduced during the recession. During the drafting of the proposal, many different comments and initiatives were adopted, and due to their number and examination, the public treatment of the law was extended. It lasted from June to mid-September. All comments received were examined and taken into account within the scope of the options set out by the objectives set and the principles of the new real estate tax system. The Government considers that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for the implementation of the system, as it is comparable to international practice to the regulation of the property taxation segment, and taking into account all of the above, we propose to the National Assembly that the proposal be adopted by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Aloyzi Potočnik, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u67	Your Honor! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 70th emergency meeting. 11 and 9. 11. In 2013, the Government submitted the proposal for a real estate tax law to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. The Chair's College is at the 69th session of the 23rd. Ten. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made some comments of a general nature and specific comments to each article. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled: NSI Group, SDS Group of Members, SLS Group of Members and PS Group of Members, SD, DL and DeSUS. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the imposition of property tax represents one of the most important measures of public financial consolidation in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, she stressed that, compared to other countries, assets in the Republic of Slovenia are relatively low on consumption and income. In addition, the burden of assets has the least negative impact on the economy and economic growth compared to the burden of consumption and income. It explained that the restructuring and modernisation of the taxation system was necessary due to the impreciseness and depreciability of the existing system and that the new real estate tax replaced existing real estate taxes, the compensation for the use of building land, the property tax and the maintenance fee for forest roads and the higher value of movable property. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance presented the reasons why the Commission does not support the bill's proposal, in particular in view of the procedure for the adoption of the law – the urgent procedure – and its negative impact on the funding of municipalities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, highlighted some of the comments made by the services in the written opinion. With regard to the comments on the determination and clarity, she stressed that the main definition of the amendments tabled was upgraded, but some remained open, in particular with regard to the application of a tax return on property payments and the obligation to inform Gurs about the issuance of real estates, with regard to the taxation of protection and resolution facilities under the Systemic Firearms Act, and the non-compliance of the law on the registration of real estates with regard to the provisions on the transmission of real estate data and the criminal provisions already laid down in the Property Registration Act. In the debate, the members and members of the committee who expressed their support for the proposed law stressed the necessity of amending the existing tax system and the importance of the draft law for the adoption of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 and for the state's public financial stability. The discussion also expressed opposition to the consideration of the proposed law by emergency procedure and the opinion expressed that the bill was prepared in a non-professional manner and that it did not take into account the proposals from the public debate. The view was expressed that, according to the proposed scheme, taxation of natural and legal persons would be much higher than under the existing system. There was a opposition to the division of property tax revenues between the State and the municipalities, and the need to ensure that all income from real estate taxation falls within the budgets of the municipalities. It was pointed out that the proposed allocation of revenue and the lack of impact of municipalities on the level of tax rates would have a negative impact on the possibility of regulating the development policies of individual municipalities and their financial stability. It was also suggested that in many cases the tax base was set too high, unprofessional and unfair, and that Gursa’s data on the value of real estates were lacking. The Committee further considered and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups PS, SD, DL and DeSUS and the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The Committee did not adopt certain amendments tabled by the NSI, SDS and SLS parliamentary groups, as well as the amendments of the groups that had been withdrawn. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, is also prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Jurša will be the first to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of Finance! Allow me first to present the position of our parliamentary group on the proposal for a real estate tax law. Indeed, the position of the party DeSUS and the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia has already been much said and written in the media. Our position remains unchanged. With the text of the real estate tax law, we are not satisfied, and let's face it, no one is probably among us, let's say it's opposition or coalition, probably not the government itself, but even less our people. Nevertheless, in the DeSUS Group, we will contribute our votes to the adoption of this law. It is not a matter of duplicity if we are to be viewed today or in the future. Why did we support both the urgent procedure and the law? I repeat, because we have, to say the least, literally bound hands. The budget will go through in the form that we have or will confirm, the budget and the financial proceeds, as defined by the real estate tax. The functioning of the Government and thus the stability of our country depends on the adoption of these acts. Both DeSUS and DeSUS do not want, cannot and will not take responsibility as regards the government's future activities and, as a result, the arrival of the troika may also be possible. Others should make such decisions, and the spears will not break on us. Let me stress that both DeSUS and our Members have advocated an easier form of this new tax. We initially demanded a special situation for social weaknesses, and this is where the government took a step closer. We also insisted on the gradual introduction of this tax and reached a compromise solution on housing. The reasons for our requests are reasoned. It is a completely new system-wide tax on that part of people's property, which is extremely poorly valued and poorly valued. Just look at how many different cases, how many unfair assessments have been transmitted to us by our citizens and citizens. I'm not an expert, but at first glance, there are certain anomalies. Here our parliamentary group appeals not only to the Government and the Ministry, but also to the Gurs and all other competent services to counter, quickly and consistently rescue these anomalies. So that we do not read in the newspapers that the villas of some of the individual important personalities have been overestimated. Some believe that the financial recovery is unrealistic. We can't do that and we won't judge. However, I can tell you that only a certain percentage of the tax debt collected would compensate for this budget hole. Instead of introducing this tax, we proposed the introduction of a property crisis tax, and we could also list where the money would be collected painlessly. Unfortunately, none of our proposals have been heard. That is why we are here today, where we are, faced with a fact that is not simply an answer for or against tax. It depends on support, as has already been said, on the functioning of the Government and the stabilisation of the whole country. Perhaps the ministry will consider limiting the impact of this tax on social disadvantages, for those who cannot even provide for survival, rather than tax burdens. This is a version of the tax institute that already exists today, and we will also try to invest it in the future or request it from the Ministry of Finance. I will present this in more detail in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Representative of the Government! How to mark briefly the proposal for a real estate tax law to be decided at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly? This is an attack by the government of Alenka Bratušek on the countryside, this is an attack by the government of Alenka Bratušek on farmers, and this is an attack by the government of Alenka Bratušek on the economy and also on human rights. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats know that taxes have to be paid. We know that tax culture must be raised in Slovenia. We know that it is necessary to give to the emperor what is Caesar's and to God what is God's, but if the emperor is too devoured, then he will have a point, he will have a rebellion, and because we live in democracy – I still say that we live in democracy – this emperor is awaiting elections. First of all, I'd like to point out the economy. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the economy needs to supply oxygen on a permanent basis because the only economy will create new jobs, and this will be the only guarantee for pensions, for the health system, for the school system and not least for the salaries of public servants. The real estate tax law imposes an additional and excessive burden on the economy, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. The tax rates for commercial and industrial buildings are around 0.75%, which means that the current tax on commercial and industrial facilities paid in the form of compensation for the use of building land will in most cases increase dramatically, double or even triple most times. Our economy is simply not going to be able to bear this. As a result of this tax, too, some economic operators, in particular smaller companies and independent entrepreneurs, who are already operating on a positive zero or on the edge of profitability, will decide to cease their business, as a good part of their earnings will be collected by the State through this new tax. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, how should we talk about incentives and economic development? How do investors know in advance that their new business properties will be burdened by excessive taxes, in addition to all the other taxes already levied by the State? Who will even choose to invest in Slovenia, which is already almost hermetically closed to foreign investors anyway? Among other things, we are bitter about the taxation of firehouses. The Slovenian public must be told that firehouses will also be taxed. There are about 2,000 of these in Slovenia. There's no explicit record in the marriage that firehouses are exempt. You'll have to convince us about that. Virtually all were built with voluntary work, voluntary contributions and donations. I wonder where the voluntary fire companies, which by most of the owners of these facilities, will take the financial resources for these purposes. Is there going to be a procedure for the liquidation of voluntary fire companies? We have about a thousand 400 of them and about 150,000 volunteer firefighters. I'm asking you, which voluntary fire company is going to build new firehouses in the first place. For the state? For Ljubljana? Last but not least, how will high taxes be paid by pensioners under EUR 400 per month, who have been under the poverty threshold for years and who break out day after day, even though they have earned their pension honestly? New Slovenia and the opposition are the only honest fighters for pensioners because we want to promote the economy. Will farmers have to sell commercial buildings, perhaps demolish economic buildings, because they will not be able to pay high taxes for them? I won't go on. Let me conclude by saying that the New Slovenia Group simply cannot support the proposal for a real estate tax law. We have tabled some amendments with which we wish to at least partially mitigate the consequences of this tax. I call for a vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The real estate tax law would like some of us to present it as a theft of the century or perhaps even worse. Let's see some facts about what this tax is. In the first place, we can certainly say that this is a system tax that will bring a lot of changes to the current system. It will unify all taxpayers before the law and pursue the objectives of fiscal consolidation, as we know that the existing system of charging property or real estate benefits in the Republic of Slovenia is outdated, unequal and opaque. The property tax is one of the oldest taxes in the history of mankind introduced by all the developed countries of the world and combines four taxes. These are NUSZ — compensation for the use of building land, property tax, fees for the use of forest roads and a higher value tax on immovable property introduced in 2012. With this merger, we are following the objectives of duty transparency. From next year we will have one tax that will be clear and predictable, and this, I stress, throughout the territory of Slovenia. Indeed, there have been some exemptions and exemptions from taxation during the coordination and negotiation phase. But let's be honest, there aren't many of them. We are pursuing the objective of as broad a tax base as possible and as low a tax rate as possible. It's both possible that there's a little excuse. I would like to point out that the systemic nature of this law also defines the equality of treatment of all the debtors. So far, we have had an incredible situation where some municipalities have charged very high compensation for the use of building land, while others are little less than two municipalities. At this point, I would like to point out that the real estate tax law allows municipalities a transitional period of 3 years, which means that the State will provide them with the same amount in 2014, 2015 and 2016, which they received in 2012 from the compensation for the use of building land reduced by fees for the use of forest roads. In a developed world where we like to belong ourselves, this is a situation that is unimaginable. As far as possible, I ask you that in the same country we pay so differently for the same things. This is a totally wrong world. The property tax, respected, is, as I have already mentioned, a system tax to which the profession has been designated positive. Indeed, the public debate has opened up a wide range of dilemmas, from socially disadvantaged citizens who do have real estate but cannot, for various reasons, pay taxes to all known issues for the methodology of determining the general market value of real estate. We are aware of these mysteries and intend to solve them constructively, one by one. We've already closed a lot of dilemmas, and some of them will. To this end, a Council is also set up in which real estate experts will work to help the government, the Ministry of Finance, Dursa and Gurs find the best solutions. Recently, at least to me, it was a very clear statement by the representative of the International Monetary Fund, Mr Antonio Spilimberg, who recently rushed to Slovenia and supported the property tax. Moreover, it seems to him that the best possible solution is that, with respect to the assembly, the whole of Europe knows and has this tax. In comparison, property taxation in Slovenia is lower than in other countries – 0.6% of GDP. Even after the introduction of the tax, taxation will be lower than the average in the OECD countries. Following the introduction of the tax, it will be approximately 1% and the OECD countries have this percentage at approximately 1.6%. I would also like to say that the property tax does not distort the functioning of the real sector as if it were a tax on consumption. The property tax follows the principle that those who have more will pay more. The problem, which appears in understanding and relative to real estate, is unique in Slovenia, I hope, unique. We have wealthy people living in large houses, but they have no liquid resources to pay the tax. This group of low-income wealthy people are mostly senior citizens. Even for such problems, which I stress are unique to us, we have foreseen in the proposal for a so-called tax loan or the possibility of paying this tax by hand. The rate of imposition of the tax is also envisaged. Thus, the basis from which the tax will be charged in the first year will be lower and will represent only 80 % in 2014 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u74	I'm sorry. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Can I just finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u76	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u77	If I finish. They certainly do not hold to the claim that the state, with a property tax on its citizens, is poor. It is necessary to introduce transparency and unity in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to equalise all citizens regardless of where they live in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u78	Can you please finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u79	The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the property tax while at the same time striving to resolve all the open issues that are being raised in the debate in a way that will be as favourable for everyone as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. It's been a long time, but we're moving on with the presentation. [[...]] Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Given that you have allowed the largest coalition party 2 minutes longer time to present the position, I would like to suggest that you take this into account in the next presentations, and that those who wish will have the same opportunity as Members who represent the position. At least we would ask for this minimum standard between the coalition and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Thank you very much. At this point, a new standard would not be introduced into the National Assembly. It was a waste of time, we know that. We will continue to present the views of the groups. You have as much time as you can afford. We probably won't interrupt you either at the last sentence. So, please, let us continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. I cannot welcome the representative of the Government or the secretary of state – a lady can. Probably this law is of no importance to the Government and therefore does not attend this meeting – some arbitrary attitude towards this law and also to Members and Members from the Government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the first time, we are protesting the procedure. It is a necessary procedure, a system law, because, after all, the system law has been addressed today by some other parties. It is a system law when it comes to preventing the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this tax will have difficult remedial consequences for the country, for citizens, for citizens, for businesses, for farmers, for everyone, except probably not in the first moment for the government of Alenka Bratušek. Therefore, the responsibility for the adoption of this law will probably be taken by those who support this law, as stated in the parliamentary positions. The first starting point, which is wrong in the drafting of this law, is the very purpose, the fiscal purpose, the stabilisation purpose, as already mentioned, and also the use of some archaic expressions from the 1970s on stabilisation and so on in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental purpose of this law should be for people at local level to get better quality services, and nothing else. In the whole world, in all countries of the world, local communities are the ones funded by this source. No republic, no republic budget, but municipal budgets. That is why this law, and especially during the transitional period when we are talking about 2014, when it is the source of the national budget, is about centralisation in that country and about the removal of the role of local communities. This is unacceptable because people at local level are pursuing their interests, and they should have a better quality of services under this heading. The next, which raised a lot of questions, is a purely professional question of what the tax base is. The tax base is the general market value of real estate, ladies and gentlemen. What's that? This is some model basis that is based on some assumptions, and we can already see in the media what mistakes are actually going on. There are mistakes that some property, which should be worth some 100,000 euros, is estimated at some 10,000 euros in the whole of Slovenia, and this is the injustice that will happen with this law. It's impossible for us to have this kind of imbalance. This proportion is irreparable because, in the process itself, it is impossible to change the tax base through the tax administration, but this will actually happen by going from Durs to Gurs and from Gurs to Durs back, from one bureaucrat to another bureaucrat before he even settles anything. Indeed, this procedural part reduces the legal security of taxpayers, and this is not acceptable. In addition, the government of Alenka Bratušek has foreseen such tax rates that people, citizens and citizens in Slovenia will on average be taxed 2 to 3 times as much as in current taxation. At the same time, the local community is taking autonomy to have any impact on the tax burden of citizens and citizens. Moreover, the State does not have a record of its assets, state assets, parastatal assets, and does not even know how much it actually owns. And on this basis, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing some law, which means that in April, May or the coming months there will be total chaos in the country. There is no provision for computer support, no records are drawn up, and on the other hand some will pay enormously higher taxes than possible. The social aspect of this tax has not been taken into account, as it is known, and the Government has not analysed that the value of property in many countries is significantly higher than its income. Why? Because in this country we had special construction features because people built their own homes and now the state will tax them with such legislation, with such rates that people will have to sell these properties. They'll be forced to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Please finish slowly. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u85	Besides, they'll be forced to. The law is also an extension for nationalisation, and not only that – this tax means not only nationalisation, but also the new feudalisation of this country. The rich will pick up the properties at low prices. Then they will begin all procedures by making this tax constitutionally unacceptable and, on the other hand, by people who lose their properties, even more impoverished than they are today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of this law, given that it is weak, unprofessional, harmful, unfair, and that it means actual nationalisation in this country, we will certainly not support it, and even given that we are resolutely opposed, we cannot accept responsibility for the consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircelj, for your position. I hope we stick to time now, even though I understand why overstepping is taking place. Here you are, Mr Frangež, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u87	For the introduction, it might be good to mag. Spending explains to colleagues and colleagues that one sentence is the part that has one verb. There were a lot of verbs here. Respected and respected! Slovenia is at an important turning point, and we face low confidence, on the one hand, of our people on the other hand by international institutions. Today, both of them watch our every move. While our people expect and demand justice in the face of the crisis, the urgent part of which is the elimination of past errors, the exercise of responsibility for them and the strengthening of the capacity for economic and social development, international institutions are assessing whether we can overcome enough stability and responsibility to fulfil our commitments and take key steps to build confidence in Slovenia, which will be able to meet its obligations, including the ability to repay its debts. The imposition of a property tax cannot be withdrawn from this whole. Unfortunately, today we are not in a situation where this systemically important measure and systemically important regulation can be decided without the context of the fiscal picture. Social Democrats want this to be possible, and then our decisions on this tax, on the burdens, on its regulation could be significantly different. In order to realize the rights of pensioners, we will spend €1.5 billion in 2014 and € 188 million more than planned. We will devote almost a billion euros to repay the debt, 230 million euros more than planned. Since banks cannot be expected to recover from the economy without rehabilitation, a recapitalisation of banks of EUR 1.2 billion is planned in 2014. Only by transferring poor investments and increasing capital adequacy can we promise to gradually address the key problem that weakens the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, access to funding sources, which, together with the debt available and envisaged by the new insolvency legislation, will enable the start of lending the economy. In doing so, we stress that the public sector is also being affected – €90 million less for wages and contributions and €110 million less for goods and services. Other funds in public consumption are also falling. Together with the determination to maintain the level of social transfers in these difficult situations, to increase funds for economic restructuring and to maintain the level of education and education, this is the framework within which we decide on the property tax. We Social Democrats have had a series of comments and proposals in intensive and long-term coalition coordination. The tax should, in our belief, belong entirely to local communities because it is essentially intended for local infrastructure, which also increases the value of immovable property. The burden should not go significantly beyond the current burden for both people and the economy. As we looked at the system, we rejected any exceptions. That is why we have also advocated the taxation of sacral objects, like all others. If the tax can be paid from the Red Cross warehouse, it can also be paid from the church. We wanted to succeed with the idea of introducing tax gradually and by way of establishing sustainability for the social situation and the competitiveness of the economy by, for example, an 80% tax base. Almost to the end, we insisted on the need to put individual valuation protectors in the system of legal remedies to correct errors in mass valuations that upset the public and which, due to the small volume of transactions, blur the actual market value of assets, either up or down. If you look at the law before us, you can find with us that the extraction of our proposals is minimal. We can't be satisfied with that. However, the tax debates have not been sharpened and we have not in an audacious, ultimate way threatened by leaving the coalition, because we are aware that the state needs stability and that political uncertainty, even in the short term, would cause an additional lack of confidence in the country and an increase in in inability to proceed from the current situation with a sovereign, self-assessment of what Slovenia, its people, our culture and our type of economy are an acceptable set of measures, which must also take into account the idea of what Slovenia should be like when it comes to living in. In doing so, we also carefully took into account the alternatives and, based on the calculations, found that the property tax had an impact on the decline in economic activity by 0.25%. Alternatives would have a higher impact on the reduction of gross domestic product: a reduction in public consumption by the same amount – a fall in GDP at 1%, 4 times higher, a reduction in social transfers by the same amount – a fall of 0.6 to 0.8%, a rise in VAT for the same fiscal return – 0.7% reduction in GDP. Comparable measures include the imposition of a tax measure which has the least effect on the reduction of economic activity and on the gross domestic product. We place responsibility for the country and the fate of our people, businesses and communities as a whole far ahead of short-sighted political benefits. In understanding that the tax is faced with widespread opposition, we are determined [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u89	to support him. [[...]] Also because we recognize the fundamental fairness in it that, with its help, the contribution of all property owners in the country, we continue with gradual fiscal consolidation, we provide at least minimal assistance to vulnerable and weak people between us and with investments and development funds, we are launching a development restructuring of the economy. The Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u91	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. A respected choir! Real estate taxation is one of the oldest taxes and is common in the vast part of Europe. It's practically all over the country. In some, it represents a higher, lower share of the total tax burden in others. The real estate tax is new, but there is nothing new about the content, new is the way in which the real estate tax is saved. So far, we have had four ways of taxing real estate, namely, compensation for the use of building land, property tax, compensation for forest roads and a higher value tax on immovable property. The new tax will bring these four together to ensure greater transparency in the whole of Slovenia and introduce the same rules for all. We currently have too much tax work in Slovenia compared to comparable countries, while property is less taxed. Compared to the NUSZ, the tax burden of the real estate economy remains on average at the same level. The increase in total earnings is mainly due to the taxation of those who have been in a privileged position so far and have not been taxed. On average, it means that some will pay more, but at the same time we must be honest to say that much will pay less. We have been introducing real estate tax in Slovenia for a decade. In the Civil Gazette, too, we would be much more pleased to introduce it in times when the introduction of a system-wide real estate tax would allow us to reduce too much tax work at the same time, but unfortunately this opportunity has been delayed in the past. Taxes have clear fiscal effects, but at the same time we must not ignore any other non-fiscal effects. The new way of taxation also seeks to increase the exploitation of these, which should also be reflected in the real estate market in the form of greater availability of real estate, especially for young people. Empty buildings are a problem for the economy. It is dead capital, and in these times of crisis, we need all the available capital. During the transitional period, municipalities will be granted the same amount of compensation as they collected for 2012 as compensation for the use of building land. After a transitional period, the tax revenue will be divided between municipalities and the country. It should also be noted that the debtors will have the legal means available to challenge the indications in the tax assessment decision, both the data concerning the debtors and the general market value. Forest roads were also a particular problem, which are often unmeasured. We are pleased that a solution has been found to solve this problem without unnecessary costs of regulating the situation in the records and introducing additional bureaucratic procedures. We also received several examples of valuations of values in the Civil Gazette, which are, to say the least, strange — adjacent plots with similar objects and valuations very different. In all cases, however, the problem is in the building parameters and not in the evaluation model itself. We are aware of this, and we have therefore insisted in the National Gazette that citizens be informed in advance of the value of the tax, and that the procedures for regulating this for citizens will be as simple as possible. The time for these anomalies to be removed is enough. It allows the socially disadvantaged to reduce and postpone payment. It introduces a cap on tax for agricultural areas. This is €20 per hectare for agricultural land and €5 per hectare for forest land. This clearly tells us that this tax does not endanger Slovenian agriculture, as the opponents want to show – opponents of the government, not so much the property tax law. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u92	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u93	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction, let me immediately state that in the Slovenian People's Republic we oppose such a property tax law and, above all, the adoption of such an important law in such a way. On the basis of the property tax, we do not object, and together with the petitioners, we assess that this tax should be adopted in cooperation with people, with different associations, and that the first possible date for its application would be 1. 1. 2015, not overnight by emergency procedure. The urgent procedure shall be provided for where there is war in the country, where elementary accidents or other difficult consequences are present. You are referring to the difficult consequences of the budget. The path we are now taking as we apply 200 million new tax obligations through this tax is very similar to the banking system, where 200 to 300 million euros were asked every six months for recapitalisation. If we go only with new taxes, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will come up with a new tax in six months, and we will not save the country. The tax is wrong because it is based on general valuation. From this title, we have seen in recent days a whole range of anomalies emerging from various villas, which have significantly lower values than pensioners' apartments in Ljubljana, to the fact that the forest area on the Black Kal, a mountain resort, is worth more than the best forests in Kočevska, to the fact that the agricultural land in Koper is 15 times more valuable than in Moravian Toplice. Colleagues and colleagues, there is no provided constitutional category of equality before the law. You can't complain about these things. The amendment we have proposed is proposed by the coalition to delete. Even this anomaly will not be able to be eliminated in the process itself. Since we have seen many mistakes, we have walked among people with petition signatures and also with public tribunals. 65,000 people have already voted against this law in a good week. That's every 30. Slovenian or Slovene. When a directive was tried in Europe that could result in the privatisation of water resources, it is every 333. The European opposed, and the Commission stopped the procedure, changed its mind and took the time and drafted an appropriate law. We have not tried anything else, not even now in these proceedings in Parliament, through a regular procedure, through a public presentation of opinions, by trying to invite interested parties to the committees – and you no longer allow this in the National Assembly. That is why I am appalled at how this law is adopted. Let me just tell you what the Tribune people were asking us. Does the President of the Government support honesty? Such evaluation does not support honesty. Has the government lost its mind? It's a fair tax, I'm talking about good fairies again, creativity tax, work. What was wrong with me not allowing my whole life but building a home for my family and for a peaceful old age so that I could no longer pay these taxes with a low pension? On the other hand, the craftsmen have warned us that it is simply impossible to live in such an unstable economic environment, where individuals can increase their overnight burdens by six times. The craftsmen are leaving our premises, giving up their investments because of this unstable tax environment, which is only one in a series of these measures, which will follow with the aim of introducing 200 million new taxes in half a year. Farmers wonder if even in this case a chess rule is being enforced to sacrifice the farmer first. When you talk about successful negotiations, in Austria farmers pay 5 times less real estate tax for 5 times more areas – 25 times the difference. If we add the income, the new 30 million burden will fall on agriculture next year, and on income where subsidies will be taxed higher. This means that the new 3% of all activities are currently being taken from people. In municipalities they wonder how they will stimulate economic activity in the city’s cores when it happens in Celje, that the city’s core will now have a tax rate of 12 times higher and 6 times lower in the shopping centres. A whole series of these questions arise when we have people who are united in the pensioner union, people who are unemployed. We are seriously reminded of what we allow ourselves to write such laws, to foresee nationalization in the law, or that their offspring will be able to pay for them. It is humiliating for them to create, make property in life, and we all know that in Slovenia many property owners are in an inappropriately poor position in the income sense than many others, and that this relationship between real estate, property ownership and current pension benefits, for the unemployed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u94	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u95	for workers who work in companies – that there is simply no proportion in the Slovenian space and that this is one of the very big problems, which will also cause a number of problems in the coming years. [[...]] In the economic sector, as I have already mentioned, there is no economy that is so unpredictable and so changing, so our appeal was, once again, at the conclusion of the position that we wanted to draw attention to these errors with all the methods, parliamentary, democratic methods. Unfortunately, we were unsuccessful. People oppose this law. We will continue our activities to stop such a law, either in the State Council or in the Constitutional Court, because we believe that, as has already been said today, this law will cause those crisis situations in the country where you say they are the reason for the urgent procedure. We will vote against this in particular because we do not want such an unfair tax to be adopted as of 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate, namely Article 4 and the amendments of New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the coalition. I'm opening the door for a debate, and everyone you want, please sign in. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two panellists reported. He's the first to be reported as a mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Article 4 refers to taxpayers and, in the amendment indent, provides that for dwellings leased on a non-profit basis, the taxable person is a tenant for the payment of the property tax. We oppose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We propose that this should be deleted, because those tenants who have a non-profit lease have difficulties covering their living expenses, so they also have a non-profit rent apartment, otherwise they would not be entitled to receive it for non-profit rent. You now assume these taxpayers as taxpayers for the payment of real estate tax and thereby further increase their cost of living. These people usually live from hand to mouth. They are also generally linked to various social transfers and simply cannot bear such a real estate tax. Dear representatives of the Social Democrats and other coalition parties who declare themselves to be socially sensitive political parties, I simply cannot understand that in the case of non-profit dwellings as taxpayers you have dedicated and anticipated tenants, those who rent them. Look at this nonsense. If such a taxable person does not pay that tax and will use that measure to defer payment of that tax after his death or before his inheritance, who will pay that tax instead? He is not the owner of the property, as neither will the state be able to report as an heir nor as someone who is entitled from the estate to the work of the property. This is another proof of your great depravity and that you pretend to have feelings for the weak. With the Income Act, you've also reached a minimum wage. The minimum wage will be lower later, as they will not be subject to tax reliefs as before and will be uncoordinated next year, so the tax will be higher and the net salary will be lower than it would be. The second measure is that those non-profit tenants will be taxable. Not to mention pensioners who will not be coordinated over the next few years. Another measure of recruitment, an increase in the RTV subscription and so on, which you have taken in the last period, strikes after those who have the least, which are on or below the social edge. I object to this, even because we have avoided these groups in the policy of the previous government and have failed to strike with austerity measures or measures to balance public finances across these groups of people. And you're doing it, not once, but I guess it's the fourth time, the fifth time, and if we sum it up, how much does that mean, it's probably gonna be one big problem. Therefore, I ask that this amendment, at least this amendment, be supported and that the taxpayers are liable to pay for those apartments that are in non-profit use, owners and not tenants.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! He also greets the Secretary of State, who is obviously the only one with the courage to be with us in such an important marriage, unlike his colleagues and colleagues. I would really like to hear the opinion of the Minister for Labour, the family and, for the time being, the social affairs of this amendment, because, as the predecessor Mr Vizjak said, so many words of this coalition regarding the social state, the first amendment on the property tax we are facing shows all the distorted policy of this coalition or their words on the social state. You want to pass the property tax on the tenants, but we all know who the tenants usually are in non-profit apartments. These are the poorest ones, and above all there is another category that descends into which taxes and burdens of unreasonable decisions of this government are placed — these are young families. There was a lot of talk about it, we even passed a law in 2004-2008 and upgraded it. With this marriage, we wanted to help young families to resolve their first housing problem as soon as possible. With this article, if it does not change as proposed by the SDS Group, you will not only drive young people away from thinking about renting apartments, but as one of my colleagues said last: they will leave Slovenia. More and more of them are leaving, and I really don't see why a young family that has no other option than to apply for a non-profit lease would deserve such a punishment as to have to pay for it. I really want to know if this article is in line with the Ministry of Labour. I would also like to know whether it is in line with the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, because I am truly sorry that even the housing fund – it is likely that municipal housing funds will wash their hands and move on to the poorest and unfortunately also to the young. Colleagues and colleagues, if there's anything you care about the poorest you're always looking out for, you're working against them, if you're at least a little bit of an advocate for young families, you're going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Since I have seen the desire for further discussion, I am opening the way for you to sign up for those who wish to discuss Article 4. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four panellists registered. Mr. Joseph Horvat was first reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u101	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We are talking about Article 4, which speaks of taxpayers. To this article, we have tabled an amendment whereby we wish to delete the fourth paragraph of Article 4 and the sixth paragraph of Article 4. But there is something else I would like to say about the taxpayers. This law is a house of law from cards, as a constitutional law specialist said. The dispute is that the taxpayers are not allowed an effective remedy for the enforcement of the complaint. The law now stipulates that it is possible to complain about incorrect data, but not because of the way in which the property is valued. The proposal for a real estate tax law opens up problems that have so far been delayed. It may be that courts, administrative and constitutionally, will be forced to decide on models and valuations of real estate and on other aspects of the law. It is contentious that the taxpayers are not afforded an effective remedy for the enforcement of complaints. The law now provides that, as has already been said, it is only possible to complain about incorrect data. Since the valuation of property will be the basis for a new tax, it is necessary to provide every taxpayer with an effective remedy in order to enforce the complaint if he considers that his property has been misjudged. In Nova Slovenija, we note that the bill stipulates that only the wrong data can be complained of, but not because of the estimated value. That's the problem. I invite colleagues and colleagues to support our amendment, which in Article 4, deletes paragraphs 4 and 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A few sharp words fell off. I believe that they were not all fully justified, respected speakers before me. As far as I am aware, I am not a member of the working body of the Finance Committee – it is true that I have been following these difficult discussions that have taken place and that I am also aware of the changes that have been made in this area. Following the current proposal – the distinguished Madam Secretary of State will correct me if I am mistaken – the tenants will not pay the property tax because it would be unconstitutional for the law to override the obligation to pay the property tax on tenants. This was a dilemma that we had, as you know, in the situation with owners who rent non-profit apartments. The housing fund is also one of such funds. Individual municipalities also have these funds, and this was also a dilemma within these housing funds. I think that the matter, as it has been changed on the working body, has now eliminated this dilemma so that tenants – I believe, are usually tenants who pay non-profit rents, those who unfortunately come from socially weaker families or the environment. It would not be fair for such tenants to pay a tax on something they do not own! And not only unfair, it would be unconstitutional. As far as I'm aware, this dilemma on the board has been removed. However, if I am mistaken, I ask for further clarifications from the distinguished Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. And I'm a member of the Finance Committee, and I have to admit, the debate wasn't a pain in the ass, but it was a pain in the ass. We had a pretty good debate on this. In the case of comments made by the opposition's respected colleagues, it is necessary to be honest. We have heard these comments and we have therefore also drawn up an amendment to the coalition, which makes this much clearer. I believe this amendment suits you, and you will support it. What's this all about? Here the tax is passed on to tenants in special, specific cases, in cases where it is a property which has been transferred through a denationalisation procedure together with tenants in that unit who have a residence right. In this case, it is certainly fair that we do not charge this owner additionally with the property tax because of this property, as long as the situation is as long as the inside owners of the housing right are simply nothing or has a non-profit lease, which is certainly not enough. So I propose that the well-respected opposition back our amendment and this matter will be very well resolved, as you yourself have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Mr. Visac? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u107	Your Honor, thank you very much. I have before me, Your Honor, a report from the parent working body, which has adopted an amended proposal for a real estate tax law with all the amendments that have been adopted on the committee. Article 4, paragraph 4, has three indents, and the third indent states that the taxable person is a tenant for residential property leased on a non-profit basis. It says so here, and we have tabled an amendment that is unacceptable. And I ask you, Mr Pavlišič, as well as Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, why we are being unfair or why we say here that this would even be unconstitutional and so on. The text of the amended law is as I read it. We think it is the greatest stupidity and social injustice to tax on property rentals of non-profit apartments, which are also pensioners with the lowest pensions, recipients of monetary social assistance and, most importantly, young families who do not have their own real estate and now have to pay the property tax, which is owned by someone else. We suggest that this is deleted. I know you're embarrassed, and you're ashamed that through coalition coordination you've brought such a text to this House!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc is next in line with his statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that colleague Žgajner Tavš has found that if he remains in such content, Article 4 is unconstitutional. I also agree that it is unconstitutional because the tax is imposed not on the owner of the property, but on the tenant of an apartment. Earlier, it was said that those with more will be taxed with this tax. That's not true. Who has more in this case? The one who owns an apartment and rents it. Who is the tenant of this apartment? The one on the social side. The dictatorship previously mentioned in the general debate by Positive Slovenia does not apply. It's not like whoever has more is gonna pay more. No, after this dictatorship, Article 4 will pay those who have fewer, those who are on the verge, those with large families who cannot buy their own apartment. But I am pleased to see that even in the coalition you find that Article 4 is the one who will be in situ when the unconstitutionality of this law is determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Very short replica. I know what I was saying, and yes, I put myself on the side of renters' apartments, those tenants who are in non-profit apartments whose owner is the housing fund. I said that the congregations also have their housing funds and so on. But what the two speakers were saying before me, and they wanted to report to the coalition that they were still leaving all the tenants, including those on the social floor, that they would have to pay the tax – this matter is also, in my opinion, absolutely unconstitutional, because they are not the owners of the apartments, just the tenants, and they cannot pay the tax for property that is not theirs. We're fixing this with our coalition amendment. The new text, which we will introduce with the amendment, very clearly defines which are the tenants who will have to pay the tax under this law. They are not renters of non-profit apartments, but they are only denationalised residential properties. This matter is being corrected by the coalition amendment, and it removes that fundamental dilemma which has been exposed and which has also been omitted by the text corrected by the committee, colleague Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u112	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the word, too. Matthew Vrančnik for additional explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. If we are based on the text submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration in Article 4, you will understand that we have two provisions talking about a taxable person in residential properties who are leased for non-profit purposes. One was the former ninth paragraph – now the former, if we look at the amended proposal for a law – the ninth paragraph of Article 4, which really referred to residential properties leased for non-profit purposes, and this provision was deleted by an appropriate amendment to the Finance Committee. However, the second provision is in the third indent of Article 4, paragraph 8. The difference between these two provisions can be explained from the explanation, which clearly shows that only real estate covered in the third indent of paragraph 8 are leased on a non-profit basis on the basis of an administrative or judicial decision in connection with dwellings returned to the property of beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act. However, we can agree that the dictatorship of the amended bill is inaccurate and does not exactly reflect the purpose we had for this provision. As a result, the amendment of the coalition groups complements the dictatorship by making it clear that the indent relates only to housing and only to residential properties in connection with the Denationalisation Act, whereas for all other residential properties leased to non-profit property, the basic rule is that the taxable person is the owner of the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Since I've seen that there's still a desire for a debate, I'm going to open a new circle, so whoever wants can sign up. I'm opening a debate, and I'm asking you to sign up. We have three other panellists reported. The first is Mr Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Mr Visjak, I'm sure you'll be ashamed to look at your e-club and see the amendment we proposed and mentioned earlier. This amendment states: "In the third indent of paragraph 8 of Article 4 the word denationalised shall be added before the word association of residential property, and a non-profit lease shall be added to the word for the tenants, previous holders of housing rights." As I understand it, you are advocating that not all tenants with non-profit leases would be liable to this tax, and our amendment, the amendment of the coalition eliminates this, so I expect you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u117	Your Honor! I have been in this Parliament for several years, and I know what the parliamentary procedure is. On this complementary proposal, we have tabled amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as you and so on. Please do not convince me that what you have proposed as an amendment to this amended bill has already been adopted. What has been adopted is what has been published, and what has been published is that they will be taxed by a tax law on immovable tenants of non-profit dwellings. I would be ashamed, honourable Members of the coalition, to let go through your coalition negotiations with the Government before you passed this law and put it into Parliament, the law in which such a provision remained. Whether you have read this law or have agreed that the taxpayers are either the tenants of nonprofit apartments or the most socially endangered — young families, pensioners with low pensions. That's what you put in the marriage. Now we're correcting this and you're obviously correcting it, because it's obviously only now that you've clicked, and so I told you that you can be ashamed and insist on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Non-profit leases are an intervention in property rights. This is one of the most protected categories under our constitution, and already a judicial decision giving someone the right to be a non-profit tenant is an intervention in the ownership right of the owner. In this case, if the tax were imposed on the owner, it would be a double intervention in property rights. First, the rent must suffer, which is more favourable after the court's decision, and then the tax for the same purpose, for the same rent, from which there is no profit. The ownership right in this part is severely impaired. However, it might be that at the time of Article 4, we would point to something else, one good story that it brings. In Slovenia we have 660 agrarian communities with over 70,000 hectares of different properties, surfaces. This is 3.5% of Slovenia. Agrarian communities are already paying taxes, just like everyone else. Either this compensation or this is a cadastral income or this is a rental tax, compensation, whatever. However, so far we have a major problem with the agricultural community. Taxpayers are 50, 100, 300 and more, and – what bad stories when all these agrarian communities settle these tax obligations. How bad are stories when it comes to predicting, measuring, and paying, breaking through fragments, thousands, and so on. Here's one solution that's very good. Agrarian communities can be counted here on request or on the proposal of the agrarian community itself that an agrarian community pays a tax for all, and this is one great advance. We expect, however, that the tax, as provided for in this Act, will also be extended to all tax obligations, including the renting tax, the real estate tax and so on. This is the added value that also has positive effects in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I believe that, when the law is in an emergency, it has lost sight of many people that the amendment of the coalition groups has also been tabled under Article 4. It applies to tenants in denationalized apartments. If those who so quickly condemn, take offense and insult, also read this text carefully in the supplementary proposal, they would see that it is residential property leased on a non-profit basis on the basis of an administrative or judicial decision. In the original text on page 39 of the Act, you will read: "As an exception as a tenant for residential property which is based on law or judicial decision [[Therefore, it is beyond the will of the owner who is thus limited to the right to own it.]] given in a non-profit lease." It's not about those tenants with non-profit rents, it's about those tenants with non-profit rents that are in denationalized apartments. Since there have been many words, obvious at the expense of the Social Democrats, let me say that the Social Democrats so far, in the context of denationalisation procedures, have often warned of an inappropriate solution in the housing law, because it was as Mr Pavlisic had said earlier, because the apartments were given together with the people. The only thing that could be resolved, including from European decisions, since fundamental human rights is the right to a home, and these tenants who carry a lease in denationalised apartments, would thus lose their home if we had to leave this apartment, was to get a rent of apartments after a non-profit rent. And these are said to be property taxes. Not everyone who pays a non-profit rent in rental apartments, but just you. I am leaving now to assess whether this is good or not, but this should be cleared as part of the whole denationalisation process, for which, among other things, 44,000 signatures have been collected in relation to forests, but those protests have not been taken into account. I will support this amendment because it sets out more clearly because it will now read: "for denationalised residential properties leased to tenants, former holders of housing rights on the basis of an administrative or judicial decision, a natural or legal person". The text will be clear as to which category of non-profit rent payers this exemption applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica or a wish for a debate? We'll give you another chance to sign up for the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two other panellists or panellists reported. The first is Alexandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Socially Weaker Act also provides for a number of security guards, which the Government has also introduced for low-income pensioners. The state will be able to enter a tax debt on real estate, which is what is happening now that pensioners do not have enough funds to pay for the home of older citizens and that the debt is paid with real estate or paid by the heirs. That's how it's gonna be now. Older pensioners who cannot pay this tax will be able to transfer the debt to real estate or tax administration. Thus, the beneficiaries or beneficiaries of cash social assistance and a security allowance will be entitled to a 50 % reduction in the real estate liability in which they reside. Taxation will also be exempt from the owners of protected forests, public goods, infertile agricultural land and all fire-fighting facilities. Real estate owners will no longer be allowed to commit to renters, nor to renters of non-profit apartments. The main news is that a full appeal against the tax ruling will be possible. If the real estate owner considers that the data in the real estate record are incomplete, that they are unfounded or incorrect, he will be able to complain in writing to Durs' decision and Durs will send a complaint to Gurs, who will be required to carry out an examination of the real estate situation on the ground with a geodetic inspector. I agree that our real estate building system was buying apartments, a special one. It's socialism. We have a very poor tax culture. However, with Slovenia's independence and entry into the European Union, we have come into the capitalist system overnight, and much has changed. In most Central European countries, property taxes on corporate property and other wealth are taxed, while buildings and land are taxed on real estate. Many assets have been created in the past, but property also brings obligations. There will also be an increase in the number of taxpayers who have so far failed to pay due to the inefficient system, as we know that some municipalities have not taken into account the compensation for the use of building land, have taken into account a very low dose and some very high. We must also be aware that, despite the recession, the price of real estate on the market has not dropped much or decreased much so that it has become actually this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u124	Mrs. Osterman, number four, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Thank you, too. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Yes, we would return to Article 4, which deals with a specificity and a derogation from the general rule of the law that the tax must be paid by the owner of the property. We defend that this rule applies fully and for all. That is why we have tabled an appropriate amendment. I also understand the amendment, and I know it, which has been tabled by the coalition, but I think it is inadequate to solve the situation. Please provide some valid arguments as to why this exception would apply in the field of denationalisation beneficiaries, taking into account what Braniselj said that many denationalising beneficiaries would be given real estate together with tenants who could not be thrown out of the apartment, which is right. However, the denationalising beneficiary is the owner of the property, the owner of the property, and has some assets today and will also be in the future. This asset is indeed less valuable due to its burden, but the fact is that it can sell it. Can he sell it? He can sell it. However, it is difficult because the situation in the real estate market is what they are. Now tell me, can someone who has a property in a small remote place, a farm, for example, and will be highly taxed with the same tax, this property can't be sold – it can't. It is just as difficult to sell as this denationalising beneficiary. Its real estate is worthless because the real estate market does not work because today it is difficult to sell things and because the value of that farm is real market value and is very low or significantly lower than the general market value. Therefore, I think that all real estate owners should be in the same position. This law does not put all owners in the same position and, as an exception, puts those, let's say that we understand their position in part, but in this denationalisation process we can also get very much property back. It's not right for us to take this to the tenants.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I ask whether there is still a desire to discuss Article 4. If it does not exist, I shall conclude the debate on Article 4. We are moving to a debate on Article 5, namely, we have two amendments, the amendment of the coalition and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. All the debaters you wish to discuss, please apply. We have three panellists reported. First of all, Mrs. Romana Tomc has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u129	Thank you very much again for your word. This Article deals with the tax base. This is one of the basic provisions which also sets out what the tax burden of a taxable person will be. It is therefore very important that this tax base best reflects the actual situation, as to the actual value of a property. I think that there is a general misunderstanding among people, which is further fueled by the Government itself with its statements. We have recently heard the President of the Government talk about the possibility of complaining about the value of the property. Don't hold it! They won't be able to complain about the property value! They will be able to have a valuation that deviates substantially from the general market value of real estate and proves that this property is less on the market, but this will not help them much. The President of the Government said a few days ago that the tax would depend on the value of the property. Don't hold it! Don't fool me! The tax will depend on the general market value, which is something else. In tax theory, taxes must be as predictable, fair as possible, and all these attributes of some general tax principles can be obeyed. However, see the predictability of the property tax. Let's look at a little history of how the general market value has changed. Gurs first published the general value of real estate, which, as we know, was repaired in autumn and thus established a lower tax base, not by law, but by some sub-legal act, with some indexation, with some government decision. Tell me which law has been amended for this purpose. No law has been amended. Gurs can therefore, on the basis of an assessment of price developments on the real estate market, decide whether or not it will increase or decrease the value. Given that the real estate market in Slovenia has been relatively dead in recent years, this decision is extremely difficult. Taxpayers will never know whether or not they will have such a property value next year. Now let's leave the physical person behind, for instance. Tell me how they can do their business, their costs are planned by companies that will be very burdened by this tax. Thus, this predictability and this way of determining the tax base are extremely questionable. Finally, the result of this general market value — probably according to some information from the public media as well — is that this general market value is not just the result of some indicators, criteria, and professional processing. Undoubtedly, in these cases, there are often some interesting pressures that shape criteria, criteria, decisions, whatever – we do not know exactly how this is going on – in a way that, in practice, on the ground, two very comparable properties are at the same end, which can be very easily compared, assessed in a completely different way. You will say: Yes, the taxpayer can also complain. But look how this complaint is going to go. We will deal with this later, but on the committee it was clear from the Government's replies that if someone complained about Durs' decision that his tax had been misapplied, Durs would dismiss this complaint peacefully if he complained about the value, because that is the reason why it is not possible to complain. He can challenge the criteria, the criteria and so on, but he will do so on Gurs, which will then somehow change the general market value, which will affect a different base on Durs, which will then further affect the amount of the tax. That's how I picture it. But if it's any different and you're going to throw me away about it, and I'm going to answer you right now: the law has to be written so everyone understands it, and we who sit in here can say that we can read marriages at least a little better than average. How do you imagine that a million Slovenians will be able to read marriage and understand it if we are still hunting, or what is or is not valid? I believe that the general market value as a tax base is an extremely questionable category. We have tried to achieve on the amendment committee that the tax base of that true market value would be in one way or another, but we now find that all the proposals already made have been rejected in the review of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u131	Thank you. Article 5 contains two amendments, the amendment of the coalition and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and deletes what was adopted as the only amendment of the opposition at that marathon session. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have once again warned that this law must be supplemented in Article 5 and later in Article 14, which speaks of complaints, because we all know that this evaluation, which we now have as a basis, simply does not place Slovenia and Slovenians in the same position before the law, and that taxes will be charged incorrectly. What Mrs. Tomc said is true. Complaints and can be determined in the procedure whether someone has recorded and provided incorrect information. However, what Gurs comes to, how he calculates according to the methodology, can no longer be complained of. In this part, according to our deep conviction, there is one of the greatest anomalies of this law. It is also very controversial that, if such amendments were accepted, people should pay their own prices, but we wanted at least one part of this legal certainty that will not be guaranteed in this part. What these valuations or valuations are, we have seen in the last days, and on the basis of this, the law does not allow equality between citizens and citizens before the law. As I mentioned, the forest burning on the Black Kal is worth more than the forests in Kočev. The agricultural land in Cyprus is 15 times more valuable than in Moravian Spas. No one will be able to complain about this, because the basis, which is completely wrong, of some of the statistics found in the recent purchase contracts, is the basis on which this property is valued. At this point, this law is certainly contrary to the constitutional rule that we are equal before the law. Let me just wrap this up. For the sake of this law, support the amendment proposed by the SDS. However, I think that the amendment of the coalition is largely working on this law, which is further constitutionally disputed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u132	Thank you very much. More mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u133	Thank you very much. This Article is a tax base and also a basic provision of the law. This law should lay down a just tax basis in order to measure a just law. In her speech, the Prime Minister said, inter alia, "The amount of the tax will be based on the value of the property." Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. The amount of the tax will be based on the general value of the property determined on the basis of the matrix, based on assumptions, based on a model invented by some who then probably put it all together in the computer, looked at the real estate and received a general value for each property, which differs from the case to the case, which has already been presented repeatedly in the public. As a result, this tax will not be fair, this is the first, and it will not tax all related property at the same value. It will not adapt to the actual market situation. This tax will be far from the market price. We do not know what is generalized — that is a phrase, a term that is difficult to explain in substance today. What is the market value of real estate? The market price is the one at which this property is sold. That's the market price. That's what they can teach you at the Faculty of Economics, your first year. Everything else is a fiction to blur the system. This law is contrary to the basic principles of tax and the basic principles of taxes, which you are also referring to here – legality and transparency. It is a law that is not transparent, which is complex, which is that a taxpayer will not be able to determine on the basis of this law how much tax burden it faces because it will constantly change and because today we do not even know what the market values of real estate are. We have an appreciation of the banks, an appreciation of the bank's assets. What will be the market value when the bank crater information is known? Bigger or smaller? If the asset is a good asset in state banks, then the market value of these properties may be higher, and I believe it will be much lower. The general market value determined by Gurs will also be determined by the fact that the difference between the actual price at which the property can be sold and the amount at which someone will pay the tax. This is why, in your opinion, this tax is stabilizing – it means fiscal – means that more taxes will be collected with it than the current total tax. Secondly, here you are talking about the principle of equivalency being ensured by binding the tax burden on the general market value of real estate, where there is a uniform methodology for this. Yeah, but your system's not working. Tell us what the value of state property is, whether all real estate is in the real estate register one week or 10 days ago, if we find that, for the first time, the Ministry of Finance values certain real estates with one euro, and for the second time, which is even worse because, let's say, Gurs' methodology is going to be taken into account here, that there is really no link between the Ministry of Justice and Gurs, which means that even for those property held by the para-state institutions that have municipalities and so on, according to our information, there is no record. Now a record is being established, some groups are being organised and so on. In fact, an amendment was adopted that the taxable person can demonstrate in the process the value of the property also at market price, including through individual valuation, since it is likely that on the basis of some general market assessment, not all the characteristics of the individual property are covered, from construction to equipment and so on. But no, here, it appears, in the background of Gursa, who supports and encourages such a way, organized a very large lobby that did not allow for different solutions, more just solutions. This also affects the fact that the Ministry of Finance and the government of Alenka Bratušek do not accept a solution so that the taxable person can prove the value of the property in the valuation procedure carried out by the authorised appreciater. We know that we have more, that more institutions give these powers, but this is unacceptable to you. What's gonna happen because of this? Is anyone gonna get any worse? Apart from the fact that, as an excess of non-transparent and illegality, the taxpayer will not be able to complain or to complain about the decision, it will change the different methodologies, methods and so on. I want to know how this is gonna work. How complex the system you create in the very implementation of this law, and this is a violation of human rights because tax rights are also human rights. Excuse me, I propose that an amendment be adopted, under which the tax base is also a market value, and that, as a consequence, the procedure be changed so that the taxable person has all the rights under the Tax Procedure Act, including a direct complaint on the tax basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'll give you a chance to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four panellists registered. The first is Mr. Richard Branisel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u135	With regard to legal remedies in this law, we have Article 14, which provides top-notch guarantees for top-notch legal remedies. That's all there is to it, Article 14. Second thing. Where are the clues to this marriage? I am not talking about the progeny being 20 years ago, and all governments promise that this law will be enforced, but it has never been enforced. We must enforce it now, in the worst of times. The notes are in the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. It's probably not what this marriage was about. Not even the Gurs property valuation was made in mind, and probably those few million euros were not thrown out the window. Probably knew exactly what it was meant for. Remember whose government was then, which coalition and who was the competent district minister – John Sponik of the Slovenian People's Party is said to have started this story, which we are currently concluding. The information calculations were out, Gurs sent them, and then the custodians either objected or submitted valuations and so on. Companies did the same thing. At that time, it was possible, legally, to influence this evaluation and to correct the records if they were anomalies. There were quite a few of them. The comments were made by municipalities, agrarian communities, associations, owners in particular, companies in particular. Where could there be anomalies? A number of companies submitted a valuation in which the value of the property was estimated at a higher value. Why? Because these properties had to be set up for mortgages, for higher loans and so on, not to mention the various speculations that could have arisen from this story. However, in 2006, 2007 and 2008, these things were regulated to reach this stage. I'm not saying these records are flawless right now. Of course not, but we will correct them every time this law is enforced. When the anomalies, possible, come, they will be repaired every time, quickly and simply likely. Each marriage has a good quality — that it can be fixed at any time. Until we enforce this law, we will not even know where the bad things that we do not see at this time and about which the opposition may be a little too quick or reminds us that they will come about. They may come, but we'll react when they do, if they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u137	It is clear to everyone in the country that the mass valuation system has also led to certain anomalies. We have been able to monitor the bitter reactions of some citizens who, as a rule, have shown different images of various properties through social networks and wonder how it is possible that a villa, which also acts on the outside, is worth more than their house, which is of significantly lower value. Such comparisons could be heard in all these weeks and months. I think they are largely justified and show that the system of generalisation of market values, generalisation of value, whatever we will call it, is the method necessary to introduce and set a tax base from which the tax is then measured. I mentioned earlier in the position of the Group of Social Democrats that we have tried very hard to penetrate with the idea that this model of mass evaluation could also be corrected by individual valuations in the event of a complaint. I do not want to prolong the debate, but I would like to stress what we agreed on in the framework of coalition coordination and, in the end, we have also deviated from the second paragraph of Article 5 adopted by the Committee on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party, which contains a very logical provision. This provision is based on the amended proposal of the law: "The tax base cannot be higher than the market value of the taxed property." In particular, because we were finally forced to agree that individual valuation is a detailed valuation that takes into account all the individual characteristics of each property, but a significant shift from the mass valuation system in order to make it impossible to incorporate individual valuations and elements in a corrective way into the mass valuation system. Remember that I advocated on the committee that this legal certainty, as Mr Shircelj is talking about, must be advocated here in the same way and through the system of individual valuations. I do not see the danger of abuse in this regard, because, last but not least, any such appreciation costs more than the tax burden. But, as it is said, it is impossible to mix two different systems, so within the coalition we agreed that, at the shortest possible time, with appropriate amendments to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, we will make sure that they will be in the system of mass valuation – because this is a mistake, an element that relates to the issue of evaluation elements, that in the framework of that law, and the Government has set here an ambitious timeline, which goes back to the next spring at the latest, we are correcting this law within the scope of the possibility. I also pointed out on the Finance Committee that this generalisation has some danger, even because I think the banking system already considers it to be a reference value. In this regard, I stress that the problem not only arises in a situation where a person asks about the property of his neighbour about the same property: why is the neighbouring property of the valuation system significantly less than mine, which is why I will pay a substantially higher tax myself? No, the situation can also be reversed when responsible owners ask themselves: why does the state value my property significantly lower than I think market law is worth my property? I know cases where we are talking practically about new houses, whose value of construction works was EUR 160,000, and according to the mass valuation system, they are estimated at EUR 70,000, at less than half of the construction works recently carried out. Therefore, we must not replace a system of mass valuation of real estates with a substitute for market prices. We must not agree that the value of market relations should be adjusted downwards or upwards through the institute we need for tax purposes. This is where he has to play his square. It is true, however, that the whole system is, and here I also see one of the problems that we have in the mass valuation system related to the volume of transactions, the purchase and sale of real estate in a single environment. Because we are in a frenzy and the number of such transactions is very low, this is a significant distortion of the value of these properties, and I hope to say that it does not give to a large extent any real picture of the value of this property, but let us identify some market value, model value or value that we need to determine the tax base.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič is the next debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Of course, the debtors will also be able to complain about the value of the property, not in the way that we send them from Durs to Gurs, from Gurs to Durs. In the Civil Gazette, we will never agree to send our citizens from Pontius to Pilate and then back to Gurs and Durs and around. We will always advocate a system that will allow citizens to do their job as easily as possible. Indeed, they will not be able to complain of value in the way Mrs Tomc intended through the value-added. That won't be possible. That is also true, for such a way would be of the greatest benefit to valuers, which is certainly not our intention. If that's your purpose, fine. What is market value anyway? Mr. Shircelj said well what market value is. The market value shall be achieved on the market at the time of the transaction. It contains various components. This is some property value, which is also dependent, for example, on the bargaining capacity of the seller or buyer, on the current financial situation of both the seller and the buyer, and on many other things. What's the market value, say, of a house I bought 10 years ago for 100,000 euros? At the time, it was obviously 100,000 euros. How much is the market value of this same house that I sold today for 200 000 euros? Two hundred thousand euros. But what was this value in between, five years ago, three years ago? We don't know because then it's essentially not a market value. However, we may have a better or worse estimate of this market value, an assessment carried out by an authorised or unauthorised valuer. How does the valuer determine this estimate of market value? We are talking about an estimate of market value rather than market value. Assess it by some method and by some methodology, with several methods available, several methodologies. Whichever one chooses depends on various matters, including the purpose of this valuation. If we had somehow established that, in addition to the general market value, this valuation of market value is also used, there would have been an interesting situation where different methods were used in different parts of Slovenia, because different valuations were used, which is certainly not in the spirit of this law, because we have to use the same approach throughout Slovenia for the purposes of this tax, and this is the only acceptable option. It was also mentioned that the taxable person would not now know how much tax he would pay, of which value. It is in this system that is proposed in this law that knows this best. Only three or four clicks and one complicated "capcho" is far from seeing how his property is valued and how much tax he will pay from it. It's a transparent system. We have already mentioned ourselves that we are familiar with cases where two adjacent plots with similar properties are valued differently. If you go to look at the details of these evaluations, because this is also all visible on this portal, it is quite clear where these different values come from. They come from the wrong parameters of this building. Some residential property is currently marked as, I don't know, a non-residential property, and hence a lower value. Things like this need to be fixed. Citizens can already check today and will receive this evaluation early next year so that they can respond accordingly. The proposed evaluation system, as proposed by the SDS, would mean that if I improve the property, I increase this value, let's say that I convert it into beautiful pastel colors or something like that, the value of this property will rise for the pricer. In this case, the tax will also rise for any such minority. I will install new windows – hop, higher tax. I'm replacing the front door – hop, higher tax. I don't think that's your intention either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It is certainly not good to banalise these matters because even if someone changes windows, doors and so on, they will have to report it to Gurs, and if they do not report it, they can be fined up to EUR 2,000 as a natural person. Read the law, Mr. Pavlisic. That's the first thing. Here he must do it himself, and we have the draconian punishments proposed by Alenka Bratušek if he does not report it. That's the first thing. That's another thing. It is not a theory of market value, which is known to some more, some less, but it is the legal security of the taxpayer, and I would ask that the representative of the Government explain what the appeal procedure is and whether the appeal procedure on a tax basis is possible directly to the tax administration, that the tax administration also decides on this, and that the tax administration may decide on this value in any way, without sending it to Gurs, without sending it or sending it to know where and so on. If that's the case, then you'll probably be pleased. However, if this law provides for something special — and this law has an article on complaints and so on, which is something special, and it is a special law. A special law, a material law, lays down procedural matters. Procedural matters for most taxes are laid down in the Tax Procedure Act. Why does the government introduce you here, I'll say a little more learned, lex specialis, some specialty in this matter? Because the taxpayer would have less legal certainty than under the Tax Procedure Act, because those provisions would apply, and so was said on the Finance Committee when we, I think, were involved, Mr Pavlišič, talked about why this complaint was slightly different, why it is not the same as under the Tax Procedure Act and why there is no appeal procedure under the Tax Procedure Act for this material law. In fact, if we are looking professionally, then the Tax Procedure Act is the one who will lead this procedure, not the Material Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I've seen that there's still a desire for debate, so I'm opening another extra round. I'm asking you to apply to Article 5. We have three debaters. The first is Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u143	Thank you very much again for your word. This was indeed a generalisation, Mr Pavlišič. I am not proposing any specific system of taxation and determination of property value, but the SDS proposes that the real value of real estate be determined in a way that allows for an individual approach and therefore much better quality data. With much more quality data, there would also be a much higher quality base. But that's not how it works in our country. We have some general rules that everyone needs to adapt to if they're good or not. Or perhaps they would turn the matter upside down and say: some general rules are what they are, but if someone comes with better data, we will take them into account because we're talking about taxation, and we're not talking about some records that just stand there, but we're talking about the basis from which someone will pay the tax. Of course, this person must have the right to complain about the tax base as such. The way that this tax now introduces is not exactly the same, but it is similar – as if someone were taxed with income and would like to complain, but would say: you know what, you can only complain on the income scale, but prove that it is not right for you. That's about right. We are proposing a fairer individual approach, where everyone will have this fundamental right that a taxable person must have to prove his tax base in a manner and with all the instruments available to him, of course, legitimate – it is not about any of the profits of some assessors, although it is likely that any of them could have earned something on that account, but it is about the fact that the matter is properly assessed and just for all. You do not give this option with this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill is the next discusser.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u145	Thank you very much. If I repeat the words of the President of the Government when she explained the budget and all the reforms that are coming to him, she said that this tax would be fair and that everyone would pay as much as he could or would have the value of real estate. But look, we all know that's not the case. If anything is unfair or unfair, these are certainly records in Slovenia, but we can go look at a number of areas, from the state of our lands, how we have all things here, we can say, confusedly recorded. The best agricultural land is sometimes recorded as forest land, such as where the stones are themselves or vice versa. On this basis, too, people are burdened unjustly through the cadastral income. Let me get to the point: It was thought that the cadastral income would somehow be linked to the real estate tax, but it was now clearly going in a completely different direction. If I tie myself back to those anomalies we have in our Gurs. As soon as Gurs went to register these properties, we were convinced that something would come out of it that would not be useful for a long time, especially in the event that the property or that valuation would be taken into account at the property tax. This has also proved to be true after the first publication of the data, even after the data has been corrected, and today we are witnessing many anomalies. Now I ask who ensures that these anomalies will be eliminated in due course, especially if these anomalies today or when this tax starts to pay more. Will the tax administration then pay back their overpaid tax? I'm afraid not. Even if the matter is settled in such a way that those who do not agree with such a tax base will have the opportunity to make complaints in any way, objections – I believe that many who will not be easy will be able to do so. But I firmly believe that more people, especially older people, who have done their work in the past, with volunteering, with the help of friends, relatives, will build houses where they now have the only chance of being able to live – such people will certainly not go into the process with the windmill on the wind to prove that their property is overrated. Today, it has already been said that a number of real estate anomalyes have been published in the media, which are significantly lower than we can see at first sight. I got one of those photos in e-mails, I believe others did. As I mentioned before, Bill Gates wouldn't be ashamed of it. Villa, we don't even know what's next, but believe it or not, this property is estimated at €51 000 in Gurs. I'll buy it for twice that price. Next case. There is an example in the municipality of Sevinia – it is now up to date – that the owner, co-thinker or sympathizer of one of the coalition parties, as well as the candidate on their list, sells his property for a million euros. Of course, he did not get the buyer because financial capacity was likely to be limited. The next sales price was €750,000. We don't know if he's already sold it or not, but you won't believe it. What makes such a difference as we witness? I am asking the secretary of state if she will have the answer: will Gurs or anyone undertake to identify such anomalies, which are certainly huge, and in what way? Will there be any sanctions, any penalties? Will there now be exclusively people here who will receive the three-fold, four-fold higher amount than they have paid now in compensation for the building land? Therefore, such a way of evaluating and also establishing tax bases is unfair. This tax is being introduced too soon. First, we should set up a system of evaluation to have this as much on the same denominator as possible. Given that Gurs first gave his evaluation, I think it was around 2008 – look, it's now five or six years old, and there are still these anomalies. I'm asking you the following questions. A month ago, if I recall correctly, some changes in Gurs were published or in this evaluation. They've put things down somewhere. They've gone up somewhere. On what grounds? How did they do that? Or on the basis of some phone calls from powerful people or some other methodology, but it can't be that way. The methodology, if the input parameters are the same, must be the same for all, and must then be as comparable as the value. After it was published that these changes were present, I took some time, 2, 3 hours, and I compared them in the Gurs system — and also wrote them — with properties that I know roughly how valuable they are in the neighborhood or the environment where I live, a little bit, since I know the age of the buildings, the quality of the building and so on. You won't believe it. It's so different that you can't believe it. This is what somehow confirms that such a way of taxing or seeking a tax base is unfair and unfair. Therefore, a mechanism should be put in place so that it can immediately be simple, including with some consequences, if someone tries to display wrong data or is misleading the tax administration to prove how valuable the property is. As has been said many times, this tax is unfair, unfair, and I am sure that it will hurt the people who are already on the verge of survival again, with housing or a house where they live, the only thing they will have left of their past work, and now you will step behind their necks. So this is unacceptable, and our amendment is certainly justified here and it would be good to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. It is very interesting to listen to all these discussions that are practically going in the same direction. All of you note that this way, which has so far been established and which is also provided for in the law, is in some way incorrect, unfair and unfair. I absolutely agree with this, and therefore I also support the amendment that we have tabled, which nevertheless gives some opportunity to prove in this process or to change this property value through the assessment of the authorised assessor. If this tax, as you all say, had been introduced in some way through this mass recording and would have been based on a larger square of these properties, perhaps the plots on which it lies, such as the compensation for the use of the building land, could have been about justice and the same taxes or about everyone being burdened in the same way. In the event that we take another survey, which we all know has been carried out during this period, we can be very doubtful. Many objects have not even been inspected and evaluated only from the outside. Many of the data have been given very superficially, the greatest regret of this tax that we will introduce, but it is this that the most honest ones will be hit. I hope we all agree here. Those who have honestly reported all updates to their facility will be able to pay a high price for a very old facility, despite the fact that the neighbouring facility can be better renovated, more expensive at some cost. But if this owner was not at home during the mass recording phase or did not provide data when the surveyor asked him what was updated in this facility, this facility could be three times less valuable to the next person's visa. If you think that's fair, it's very questionable. The case is very criminal in some sense, so it would be right to apply the criteria, as in the compensation for the use of building land, where the object was evaluated according to the square, according to the surface, according to the communal connections, according to the position in the space it has and determined by some market value, but not after all the investments that can be very questionable and hidden, someone shows them, and there are two in a very unequal position. If we do not even introduce what we propose with the amendment that someone has the possibility of correcting it in at least some corrective way, then this law is also very questionable from the point of view of constitutional rights. Earlier, there had also been a talk about how this law allowed for the release of a tax burden in some sense and it was registered on a fixed basis. This was compared to the burdens that municipalities pay for people who are unable to pay the full amount in pension homes. But it's two very different things. A person goes to a retirement home voluntarily and his family decides whether to pay or not to pay, and this is how they commit themselves to this burden. In this case it is a general tax, and it is a general "nationalisation". So don't mix things up here, not fool people who listen to us. In any event, this valuation or this general market value is on very torn legs. I think that colleague Braniselj also talked about the need to give the opportunity to make this right in law and through implementation. However, if our amendment is not adopted, this will simply not be possible, because the process of complaining and resolving this matter in the next step is impossible through what is envisaged in the law. I think it was previously clearly pointed out by my colleague Romane how this process can proceed. I think my colleague Shircelj has also warned, and it is not possible to appeal against a tax decision, but some complicated procedure that leads to the need to change other things. I don't think there's a hero in this country who could make it through this process. I would therefore point out once again that the procedure and this arrangement, as is now the case in the proposed law, are absolutely unfair, even constitutionally disputed, and a security guard must be installed, which gives every real estate owner the opportunity to prove it in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also spoke. Here you go, Mrs. Matthew Vranitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I would like to answer some of the questions I have been asked. Questions have been raised in connection with Articles 5 and 14, so I hope that you will forgive me if I also discuss Article 14 and not just Article 5. The basic starting point of the law is that the tax base is determined by a method of mass valuation as defined by the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. In this way, the overall market value of this property and not the individual market value shall be attributed to each immovable property. Individual market value may vary significantly over time. The amendment would therefore raise the question back to the table: should the individual market value of each property be taken into account in determining the tax base, during what period, on which day? We know that the general market value is to be taken into account which is attributed to the property on 1 January of the year for which the tax is to be applied. This general market value is fairer from the point of view of the determination of the tax liability and more transparent from the fact that for all real estates of the same type, all equivalent real estates, residential, commercial, industrial and so on are determined by the same methodology, while for individual valuations this is not necessary. The general market value is not determined in some arbitrary way by a government official who has nothing better to do at that time, but is based on detailed calculations, on the analysis of actual data on the real estate market, and depends on two key elements or on two key issues. One is the method or methodology by which the value of the individual real estate types is calculated. In other words, it is important to establish a value for each property. However, the second group of elements relevant to the determination of the general market value consists of input data used for the calculation of the model. Where a model is established by a law or a sub-law adopted pursuant to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, the owner or that State authority which is required to report the actual use in agricultural land to the Register of Real Estates shall be responsible for the accuracy of the data used in the mathematical calculation. The valuation abnormalities mentioned are largely due to this second set of circumstances affecting the determination of the general market value. As already mentioned, the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was adopted in 2006 and then adopted sub-laws establishing models and methodologies for the calculation of individual generic market values. In 2010, the Geodetic Authority sent all real estate owners an informational calculation on the allocation of the general market value. This was the first time that property owners had ended up, and on the basis of the data obtained at the time, many decided that the matter had been checked and corrected by the Geodetics Administration, but not by many. On the basis of the comments received by the Geodetic Authority during this informational calculation, the Geodetic Authority has corrected or modified models for the evaluation of agricultural and forestry land, as it was evident that the model contained in itself certain illogicalities which resulted in incorrect values. The discussions we had at the time of drafting this law showed that, following a change in the methodology, there was a significant decrease in the value of agricultural and forestry land and also the convergence between actual values and general market values. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate also provides, inter alia, that the Geodetic Authority must continuously monitor the developments in the real estate market and adapt the general market value to correct the general market value of real estate as recorded in the Real Estate Register if there is a 10 % change in the real estate market. This happened this year, and because of this legal provision, the Geodetic Authority repaired the general market value of individual real estates in this September. The largest deviations were found in residential properties. I was also asked who would decide on the complaint and why a special way of deciding on the complaint. We will be able to discuss this in more detail at the time of the examination of Article 14, but at the moment only to say that it is the responsibility of the tax administration or the second-degree administrative decision-making body at the second stage of the Ministry of Finance to decide on the appeal against the tax decision. A special procedure is established in this law in order to enable the tax authority, as the administrative authority of the first stage, to resolve most possible complaints at the expense of the general market value of the property. The taxable person shall not be sent from one authority to another. The taxable person will be in contact and will lodge a complaint with the tax authority, as is normal in all tax procedures, but for reasons of clarity, it is determined in advance how the tax authority must proceed if the individual part of the complaint relates to the general market value or to the elements that have been taken into account in the general market value. It is normal, already under the General Administrative Procedure Act, that if an administrative authority encounters an issue that it could decide on in a particular case, it may require that administrative authority which is actually competent to resolve this previous issue to resolve it. In this case, it seems extremely important to us that the tax authority does not decide whether they were errors in mass valuation or not, but that it leaves this to the Geodetics Authority, and that is why a specific provision is intended in this law on the appeal procedure itself, which in no case affects the right of the taxpayer to complain against all elements of the tax decision and that the tax authority is the one who will decide on this complaint in relation to the taxable person, and when I say in this context, I also have in mind the authority of the second stage which is not placed in the tax administration, but in the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u150	Thank you. First, Mr Shirtzl's replica, and then there will be an opportunity for a new round of discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u151	Thank you very much. First of all, this. Two sentences were pronounced in two minutes. The first sentence of the complaint was that the taxable person would be able to appeal to the elements determining the tax base. And secondly, to be able to complain at the end – you have now said that, Madam Secretary of State – on all the elements, which means the elements of how the tax base is defined or the general market value, but not on the tax basis itself, where it would prove a different tax base, saying: my tax base is different. You have already asked a question at the outset because these things are intertwined here, namely, if the individual market value is on what day should this individual value be determined? Madam Secretary of State, we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and also in the Slovenian People's Party, they are proposing that individual market value can be used in the appeal procedure, which is not possible now, which means that by individual appreciation, the taxpayer will prove that the general market value is wrong. That's what this is about. This is not about us saying that the tax base is a market value, but then saying: the market value is determined in a way that we can say in any way. Here, once again, the taxpayer will be able to complain about the elements and will not be able to prove his own with individual appreciation, perhaps in court, somewhere else and so on, but these elements will then rumble at Gurs, from Gurs to Durs and so on. That's what this is about. That's not why it's not a question of what day it is. I can tell you – on the latest date. If someone gets a tax ruling of 30. 5. And the tax will have to be paid by 30. 6, it can be appreciated on day 15. 6. In the same year, he proved a different tax base in the law itself, in the procedure under the Tax Procedure Act. There is no question here at all – more recent appreciation, not backward, but in these cases the latest valuation applies. He will also be able to prove with an image, he will be able to prove with witnesses, he will be able to prove with all the elements provided under the Tax Procedure Act and give legal certainty to the taxpayer, greater legal certainty than he will now have when he complains about the elements. I want to know how many people here know what these elements are, which are determined in accordance with the regulations of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, and I don't know which ones are, and have changed in any way, the rules of law and these elements. Over the last six, seven years, they've been changing, changing. This is what I am talking about, and now I have also told you on what day — with the latest appreciation it will bring. Definitely newer than the date of mass evaluation. This is what we are talking about, and we are talking about in case a taxable person complains of a decision against a tax. This is not just a tax issue, it is a first-class issue of human rights under the tax procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircel. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? All I see is Mr. Pogačnik applying. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u153	Madam President, thank you for the floor. In view of all the shortcomings and weaknesses that this law brings, I think it is essential that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party be approved or accepted. It's probably some fundamental right of everyone to have a possibility of objecting to something, and this is a certain part of the seduction that the property owner can object to Gurs. He can give it away, but he can't challenge the price himself, but he can only challenge the input parameters. I think that this is also one of the, I would say, general constitutional rights, and in the event that this amendment is not adopted, I believe that there is a considerable possibility that this law is precisely because of this provision of the Roma to the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court will decide that this law is unconstitutional. I really don't see why such fear is also caused by the State Secretary, the Ministry of Finance. Look, because any appreciation has to be paid, and I think that because of the non-featured matters, the individual owner of the property will not decide that for such or other reasons he will simply be guessing, and that there will be these objections to the prices of a million or half a million, but given the experience we have with this valuation, we are probably of the same opinion that there are a number of anomalies here. The one who thinks that its value is wrong – I think we have to give him the opportunity to challenge it. He's not gonna challenge her on his own. We know that there is an amendment in the law that we have proposed that this should go with an authorized valuer. We know that there are some standards and methodologies here, and I think that more damage will be done by allowing post festivals to come up with some complaints, that Durs and Gurs will coordinate something with each other, and that there will be more complications here than to give an opportunity to open up that anyone who estimates that his price is incorrect can challenge this matter through an authorized appreciater. I think the coalition should approve or accept this amendment. And I really don't see the reason, I think that the fear of the Ministry of Finance, that there will be a lot of these complaints and that this law will not have such an effect, an influx into the budget, is unjustifiable. In view of the experience – and I think that the debate on the Committee on Finance has also been very constructive, and everyone who was present on the Committee on Finance as some tax experts – is absolutely in favour of this amendment. I think it's a fundamental right for someone to object to some kind of appreciation. You can't put it on Gurs today, anywhere. You can put it on the input parameters, which means you say that the three square meters don't match, but you don't have any air conditioning in the apartment or in the house that they gave you. There's a problem. I think that by adopting this law we are not threatening revenue into the budget, but we will certainly put the matter on a more real ground and we will be a weak, weak law prepared by this government, perhaps at least at one time improve.I personally assess that there is a great risk that the Constitutional Court will decide that this law is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Pogačnik. For information only, I would like to tell all the debaters that we still have 15 open articles to discuss now Article 5 and the two amendments. I ask if anyone else would like to discuss it by Article 5. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u155	If I read Article 5: "The tax base is the general value of the real estate market established by the rules on the mass valuation of real estate and attributed to the property in the real estate register on 1 January of the year for which the tax is applied" and the amendment: "to be assessed by the authorised value assessor". I cannot accept such an amendment and will not support it because this amendment means that it is not a mercurial mass valuation, but a valuer, an authorized asset value assesser. That's unacceptable. If I say there's a million properties in the country, there's probably more, and if we figure out how much is one price - 250 euros, 150, 300 euros? You know how to calculate what that value is? Because of all this, it doesn't say anywhere that it's because of the complaint you've been making. It says just like that if you read Article 5, the comma and the amendment – exactly what I said. Personally, I can say that mass valuation is at about a thousand, 2,000 euros different from what was last estimated by the valuer, the authorized valuer of real estate – it is said that what is held. There's something else I'd like to say. When I tried to get information about individual properties, about everything that was going on, they told me very clearly that I was responsible for the fact that my real estate information was accurately and accurately described, and that it was my responsibility. So, ladies and gentlemen, I do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. Here's your word, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u157	Your Honor! The tax base is crucial, and the problem is if it infuses a sense of injustice. From the many letters we have received, future taxpayers are more than justifiably pointing out the injustices that this law can cause with this general market value. On the same street in the same place we have neighbors, where someone has a villa, someone modest house, and that villa is rated half as that house. Why? There's only one reason. Because the one with the villa knew why it was a survey and why they were describing the properties, and he lied. He lied when they restored the house, lied about the square, lied about the renovations, about the equipment, about the many, and his general market value at the same location could be lower than someone who has a much more modest house and told the truth when he actually restored something, and therefore has an estimated property for more. We have two in a comparable location, one of which is a lump, and the other is an average Slovenian, and this average Slovenian will get it on his head, because because of this general market value he will pay a higher tax than the one who knowingly lied at the time of the census and therefore has someone torn down, even though today he is in the pictures and people on the street see that this is not the case. The system of generalised market value legalises and rewards those who lied a while ago. That's why this case is criminal, and that's why this amendment of ours is more than necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u159	You know, I was at the building when that evaluator got there. He took photographs, looked around, took photographs of all the houses, and he found out exactly what happened. I do not believe that people are basically dishonest, but I believe that something changed during the evaluation a few years ago, in 2009, 2008, when this general evaluation was held. We, as citizens, must report this, this is our civic duty. Whoever didn't do it, who lied, I don't run away from it, has to grab it. We have someone to do this. That is why the tax administration and others will do it, and they will do it all. In principle, your amendment, once again, would mean that we should have an appraiser for every property. That's what it says, and I read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u160	It's not possible to replicate the replica. Mr. Visjak, you will report in the next round. I now give my word to Mr Pavlisic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Perhaps the villa we had seen before was mentioned, and it is estimated unrealistic — or some other villa, for it does not matter. But how does this problem solve your amendment? There is a villa and we all know that it is worth, say, a million, but it is valued at 100,000 – how does this save your amendment? Do you expect this lump, as you called it, to gain an estimate of the value of the valuer for a million dollars, to take it to Durs and beg: give me more tax. You said he was a loon, didn't you, so I wouldn't expect him to? I'm asking you how this problem solves your amendment. He's not saving him! We also have problems with the maggots in a number of other tax areas. This government has begun to address this problem in the field of VAT and other taxes, and I believe that it will also respond appropriately in the area of this new tax, because we are aware of this. We are aware of the fairness of the fact that a property that is more valuable is less valued, which gives an impression of the unfairness of the tax. I believe we will respond appropriately to this matter. If I go back to the debate we had with Pontius and Pilate, how do we send people from Durs to Gurs and vice versa? The second paragraph of Article 14 gives a fine indication of what this is about. And besides, you'd like the debtor to set things up in Durs, we'd like to send him to the evaluators. We are strongly opposed to that. We want the citizen to be able to handle his case in a completely simple way, and he will settle it exclusively in Durs. What Durs will continue to do with this data, but it's a matter of procedure within Durs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Part of the problem you are referring to is the amendment to Article 10, which we have proposed. That is why we also refer to this problem if you are referring to it. But I react because real estate censusers have acted very differently. Apparently, they photographed the house at Mr. Meh's. Apparently, they could not believe that the house was what they saw, so they probably photographed it. I also participated in the census myself. I've had my case described, and no one's photographed anything. And another thing, we described because it was summer time outside the terrace, while I was talking about rebuilding the installation, about all of these things that no photograph, not even from the outside, can show. I want to say that that list was in a much greater correlation with how much we have actually said. Many people have told the truth, but I believe that those with fairies who knew why the list was being made did not give accurate data – so many of the letters we receive about the obvious deviations from it. You know, if anything hurts Slovenian citizens, it's not fair. This marriage of yours with these impossible solutions will bring new and new injustices into Slovenia, and it really hurts. Please, at least with these amendments, we will correct this injustice in part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I propose that we close the debate by Article 5. We would move on to Article 6 which sets the rates at which we have 5 amendments, namely SDS, NSI and three amendments to the SLS. I assume that the debate will take place. Sign up, please. Three have been reported in the first round. The word is Matthew Puchnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u165	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Article 6 of this Law, in the form in which it is before us, cannot be supported in any way, because it additionally burdens our economy, further burdens our municipalities and every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who owns the property. I will therefore support the amendment of the opposition parties, in particular the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is talking about the expected lower tax rates. I cannot support any new burden on our already overburdened economy, because I believe that this is not the path to recovery and there is no way to prepare and create new jobs. This is what the economists are telling us – in particular, Members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry have turned to us – warning and assessing that this makes the newly announced tax, or the projected tax rates, 0.75% for the business and industrial facilities of this tax rate absolutely too high. As a result, it is estimated that around 10 to 15 % of tradesmen and entrepreneurs will simply have to complete their activities so that they will not be able to pay this tax. Worst case scenario, companies will move to neighbouring countries, Austria, Croatia, Serbia, where they have an apparently more friendly environment for entrepreneurship and craftsmen. If this happens, it means that several thousand new unemployed people will be registered again at the employment agency. Not only for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but also for large companies, this tax will cause considerable damage. Let me give you a concrete example from my places. A larger company, which employs more than 2 000 people today, will pay at the highest level at least EUR 200 000 more to the newly converted property tax than they have now paid compensation for the use of building land. Do you know how much such a large company at the annual level has to create more traffic so that this amount doesn't have any problems? They say that 6 to 7 million, which would be useful, but during this great crisis, during our uncompetitive economy it is impossible to expect this, which means that they will have to take it from the fund where they store funds for new investments or for new employment. This amount of €200,000 could amount to between 10 and 20 new jobs. That's what math is like in the real world. This law or this article also applies to municipalities, since it also provides for a tax of 0.5% for public buildings owned by the municipality. Some municipalities will also receive up to 20% of the municipal funds, which could be devoted to investment and to drawing on European funds. Although the municipalities will receive the amount they have now collected in the amount of compensation for building land, they will also have to pay the property tax from schools, kindergartens, libraries, cultural homes accordingly. At a time when they are also downgrading, when they are also downgrading the average – today we have talked about taking investment co-financing – some municipalities, especially smaller, peripheral municipalities, will simply not be able to handle such additional burdens and will find themselves in serious financial difficulties. After all, these new rates of taxation are also taken by our citizens and citizens, even twice. First, indirectly, through lower funds for municipalities, which I was just talking about, and then through a higher amount of tax payment, higher than the existing compensation for the use of building land. These amounts will be twice if not three times higher. Today, we have heard from coalition Members that these amounts should not be substantially raised and should not be raised. Of course, I agree we shouldn't, but I'm afraid and I think they will. At least the ones who checked, I think they already know. Many who live on a minimum today will simply not be able to pay that amount. I would also like to say that I have been visited twice by our senior active citizens, representatives of the pension society, and on specific occasions, with names and surnames, they have told me who will not be able to pay all this tax. Alternatively, the possibility of a payment decision or a lower payment or a gradual introduction of that tax is offered, but this tax will have to be paid once. I believe that these envisaged rates are absolutely too high, that they are unfair and criminal, so, as I said at the outset, I will support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. With these amendments to Article 6, we are trying to lower these expectations from this tax from 400 million to around 200 million, so we have reduced the levels in this amendment in general. It's mostly a semi-decrease. We have made greater reductions in this or further increased to explain it – we have made for real estate, where the real use of trading centres is. In this part, it is now coming to this anomaly that trade centres, where a relatively low value is carried out by a very good activity, will also pay 4 times, 6 times less than they have so far compensated for the building land. However, we lower buildings, agricultural buildings and compare them with buildings where people live. It is said that for agriculture and housing, the rate would be the same. Also, given that this tax is extremely problematic for agriculture, this amendment withdraws taxes on agricultural land, because what is suggested in the basic proposal that these taxes will now be 5 times higher in Slovenia than in Austria, it shows a totally unacceptable tax burden. We also think that this difference between residents and non-residents is very problematic. In Slovenia we will again have a bunch of inspectors who will jump after people and control because we know nothing else in Slovenia to do. Instead of dealing with the new value, we will now determine whether the residents, the non-residents, or whether the contracts are accurate, are not accurate, and then there will be even such a paradox that the children will have to have this lease with the parents, paying certain rents, otherwise they will pay three times more. I think it would be right if the real estate were single-loaded. As far as the third amendment to this Article is concerned, the sixth paragraph is deleted. If paragraph 6 were deleted, they would allow municipalities to reduce this rate, including those receiving financial compensation. If you look at the detailed simulation, which is finally also coming to the bloc of opposition, it is clear that this law will, during the transitional period, make it clear that, above all, rural municipalities with many surfaces, those who also have many forests will be more taxed and, above all, the present ones will determine which were mainly dependent on municipal equipment in the building area, will be extinguished, and this valuation will practically reach out to these rural municipalities in its entirety, and this rise in real estate taxes will rise compared to the compensation for building land. The result of this law will be that, during this transitional period in the countryside, money will be collected to the majority of the city’s municipalities. I think this is unacceptable, and if those to whom money will flow from elsewhere and who do not have financial compensation are allowed to even lower tax rates, those to pay and to fill the budget in order to go to cities will therefore be banned because they are not financially independent. I think it's pointing to a single anomaly more than we've had in this emergency procedure sneaked into this law. I therefore propose that you support these amendments, which we have also submitted and presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Slovenians have many good qualities, and some are also bad and exciting. Among other things, we tend to commit suicide and self-destruction. I think that this tax is also one of those that will contribute to suicide or the murder of the economy in Slovenia. I'm going to read one text written to me yesterday by a friend from America, and it tells me how many opportunities there are for cooperation with Slovenia – she moved to Arizona, and now she tells me – because Arizona is becoming the new Silicon Valley in the United States, especially because the governor has reduced all taxes considerably and the companies are moving to Arizona as crazy. This is another example of how to attract businesses, how to have new jobs, new taxpayers and so on. With these additional taxes burdening the economy, we are doing the opposite – how we will expel businesses, how we will deprive farmers of the opportunity to process their farms and so on. New Slovenia has proposed a reduction in tax rates, as have some other opposition parties, both for business, economic and agricultural facilities. These objects are not luxury! These facilities need economists, farmers to make it easier to work, to survive themselves, their family, and to pay their contributions and taxes. We used to talk about how many mistakes there are in evaluating different buildings and buildings. I also know quite a few of them, from the fact that a small piece in Ljubljana is worth 300,000 euros, to the fact that the house in Prekmurje is worth a thousand euros, and many other anomalies. If I have ever met entrepreneurs who have been angry at how complicated we have in Slovenia to get permission to expand their business and thus gain new jobs, I now meet entrepreneurs who say: thank God I didn't get permission to expand because now I'm only going to have to pay more taxes. I meet farmers who say: I've barely agreed with my son to take over the farm, and now he says he won't, because he won't pay such high taxes. What have we done with this? We're thinking very short-term, just how we're going to fill this gap next year, not how we're going to get new jobs, how we're going to get fresh money, so we can pay interest so we can fill that hole we have. Very short-term thinking. Years ago, when I was in Luxembourg, they told me the same story. When Luxembourg was in the biggest crisis, they reduced taxes. At that time investors came, and Luxembourg became one of the richest countries in Europe. If you drive through Luxembourg, everyone who drives there or lives nearby is tanked in Luxembourg because there are the lowest excise duties. We have high prices to make sure that not some truck that drives through Slovenia is tanked with us, but rather somewhere else. Our decisions are very short-lived, but they have bad long-term consequences. That is why in New Slovenia we have proposed a reduction in tax rates for economic, business and agricultural facilities, because this is not a luxury, it is not a wealth, but simply a need to work easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vranitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u171	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendments tabled, I would like to explain or explain the financial implications of the individual amendments. I think that's an important piece of information that needs to be kept in front of your eyes. Under the current legislation, 192 million euros are raised by the municipalities from the compensation for the use of building land. Taking into account all the other duties that are being replaced by this law, the revenues of the municipalities there are about 200 million euros, slightly more. The law, as proposed, and if I do not take into account the transitional period when the tax base for residential property is slightly reduced in 2014 and 2015, the additional EUR 192 million collected by NUSZ municipalities should be raised at national level by an additional EUR 202 million. If we look at what the individual amendments that have been tabled lower tax rates mean. The SDS Group's amendment, based on calculations made on the same basis, on which we prepared calculations for the bill, means that 98.3 million euros of tax will be collected, almost 100 million less than the compensation for the use of the building land will be collected today. In this case, the state budget would not have received any additional revenue, but from other sources it should provide the municipalities with an additional 100 million euros. The amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group means that the proposed rates at national level would raise EUR 263 million, more than the existing burden or existing recovery of compensation for the use of building land, but still 130 million less than envisaged by the bill. According to the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the revenues from such established tax rates would amount to slightly less than the existing compensation for the use of building land, which is 189 million EUR 600 thousand and 204 million less than the proposed law. These figures show that the proposed amendments fail to achieve one of the key objectives for which the Government has proposed a bill for consideration. Regarding the warnings in the debate so far on enormous tax burden increases, it should be said that, under the current legislation, municipalities themselves determine the amount of compensation for the use of building land, which makes the burden between municipalities very different. In individual congregations, it is relatively high, and in other congregations it is very low. In order to achieve the objective of uniting the burden in the country, it is inevitable that in certain cases there will be an increase in the burden and in other cases there will be a reduction. However, as already mentioned in the introduction to this debate, if we look at the current burden of the economy on industrial and commercial real estate, the current average burden is 0.75% of the value, and also under the proposal of the law is the same value for these real estates. However, as I have already said, we cannot deny that this tax rate also means a certain increase in the burden for certain entities and for others, it can be quite extensive. With regard to the other amendments proposed in conjunction with Article 6, I would like to mention only that Article 6, paragraph 6, deals with restrictions on municipalities or prohibits them from receiving financial compensation if they wish to reduce the rates of property tax in their territory, a provision which will enter into force and which will only be enforceable after the 3 year transitional period. Once again, the three-year transitional period was agreed with the municipalities or with their associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 6? Apparently they want to discuss many more, so you have a chance to apply. We have 11 reported discussers. The first one is Mr Jožef Kunič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will not support such amendments, which substantially reduce the revenue that this tax would give. Let's remember why this tax. Because the revenue and expenditure of the budget need to be levelled slowly. We can no longer tolerate such a large budget deficit. Luxembourg was mentioned. We could also mention the Principality of Monaco and another country in which, in a balanced budget balanced from completely different sources, they could reduce taxes and come to Dubai or Monaco's taxes, which are practically close to zero. This raises the question of what such amendments would bring to reduce income. If we want to balance the budget, we need to reduce the expenditure, because additional debt under such conditions as we have found is not good. At first glance, European and global experts felt that the most efficient cuts in expenditure would be to reduce public spending, not only public services costs, but also health care, education, pensions and so on. This policy has been proposed by the European Union, together with the IMF, to some countries. She turned out to be a disaster. Then studies were done. This has already been mentioned today. One study commissioned by the European Commission said well that if we cut spending, the social product falls by at least 1.1%, but if we raise taxes, it only falls by 0.5. This applies either to medium-sized countries or to larger EU countries and under EU conditions, not to some US federal state, but to EU conditions where interaction takes place. What some propose is a reduction in income, which directly means a greater decline in GDP than it would have been. Let me mention that we have been giving birth to this tax in Slovenia for a long time, if I may say so. The late Dr. Bajuk spoke about him several times and discussed him. Many who considered themselves brave did not have the courage to bring him in. Everyone was aware, and we are also aware that when we introduce such a tax, solutions will not be ideal, but if we think about them that way, if we take as much time as you want. Those who have a few miles of life know that life is written down by its rules. This law will not be necessary to adapt to living conditions by becoming acceptable as it has become acceptable in some countries that have long held it. But we need to know that this is a capital tax. And capital in capitalism is supposed to be income-generating, profit-generating. The socialist mindset is that work is profit-winning, that's right. Capital is profitable and therefore in capitalist countries – indeed, I do not mind Mr Pojbič – capital is taxed. These are the facts, and we wonder who will bear the greatest burden. Unfortunately, there will always be some social problems, and I hope that we will solve them over time, but the fact is that the greatest burden will be borne by those who have the most real estate. The most affected are not those with the most real estate, but those with the most real estate, of which they do not produce and make any profits, no income. This is unfortunately the truth, and that is to be understood. But this tax, I think, has some positive effects. Firstly, at least in principle or to a large extent, it equates taxes, the way in which taxes are charged throughout Slovenia. After that, there are no more congregations that would be specifically excluded. Of course, there are differences according to the assessment of market values and so on, but it is no longer the congregation that decides fully and fully in this regard. I think it's very important. And the second thing that I think is even important to Slovenia is the attitude towards real estate. This tax will not save this relationship, but it will contribute to a slightly different attitude toward real estate. I know quite a few families that have forests, and they've never set foot in them. I know a few people who have houses that they just left. There are names and surnames behind all of this. Follow some blocks along Ljubljana and you will see how property is handled with common property. I think that, in addition to the modernisation of the tax system which this tax bears in my firm conviction, there are some other positive effects that need to be taken into account, and it is clear that it will have to be adapted in many ways. However, I am not sure that all the adjustments proposed today will be such that they will not be necessary for a while. I don't believe it. I think that life will write its rules immediately, as I said, and will have to work actively on it – on different evaluations, on different bases and so on. I'll vote for the tax. I will not support amendments that would significantly reduce the effects of this tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunic. Mr. Franz Pukšič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Too bad I have a little time, so I'm gonna have to be brief and telegraph. Tax means to strangle or break a policy. Today is a black day for this country because we accept a property tax because there will be two vetoes on income and banking because it is a budget – everything is a disaster. To accept only taxes in crisis – this is not done in a normal country, but it is done here. Capital's a profit. What are the profits of agricultural buildings, what are the profits of abandoned farms? Why are agricultural facilities empty? Why are the farms abandoned? Why did the young have to leave? Because it just couldn't survive. The one with the luxury yachts and so on, the real estate tax doesn't apply at all. When DeSUS talked about taxing the rich, you didn't listen to them because they're your clients, your voters, and clearly you won't. You are talking about that forest owners have not yet been in the woods, and I know citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who walk smoothly in private forests. With this tax you limit the ownership function and you give them the tax. To proceed directly to Article 6 and delete paragraph 6. In paragraph 5, he says that congregations can raise or lower the rate. That's not true. You wrote a lie in here. I'll prove to you that you're lying for small rural congregations. We therefore propose the deletion of paragraph 6. If that doesn't happen, the fifth doesn't apply. So you can hear me why. One particularly agricultural municipality in Slovenski gorica, known for the production of grapes, Juršinci, today collects 49,000 euros. With your tax, she'll collect 198 grand. Jursinians, listen, you've had 50,000 Euros tax, you'll get 200 grand with this government coalition. That means four times that! Every Jurshin should hold his pocket! Moreover, the congregation will not have the opportunity to lower the rate if this amendment is not adopted. Paragraph 5 states that she will not have a chance, because if she reduced, the municipality would lose 50,000 euros in financial compensation. Who's in charge of these financial balances? One god, a poor municipality called the municipality of the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, Ljubljana. This one's going to get 7 million 600,000. You stole the firefighters and gave the Ljubljanaians, stole the countryside and gave it to Ljubljana! It's your policy, it's the real estate law! I'm ashamed! I won't support him!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Marijan Pojbič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported mainly because it reduces tax rates. There was much to be said today, much to be heard on this subject. The fact is, no one in Slovenia can and will not resist this pressure today, these new taxes that this government is attributable to and accepted by this government coalition. The fact is that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party would, at least until one point, ease those decisions that are enshrined in this Real Estate Act. Besides, I can't help but point out one more important thing. Look what this government and this government coalition have done. She also taxed humanitarian organisations. She taxed the Red Cross at a rate of 0.5% and all humanitarian organisations. Is this government, or is it a real coalition? At a time when the social picture in this country is what it is, when people practically cannot survive from month to month, when you see that the columns are where the Red Cross is stationed, when these organizations are virtually no longer able to raise money together so that they can properly support those people who do not have a livelihood, this government and this government coalition have allowed themselves to tax humanitarian organisations. Today, all Members and Members and also the Government of the National Assembly received a letter sent by the Red Cross. Among other things, one paragraph states: "Today's times of crisis put us in an increasingly difficult situation. On the one hand, less and less funding from all sources of funding and, on the other hand, deepening the social pressures of people. In Slovenia, the number of recipients of material aid in the form of food products of the Red Cross of Slovenia has increased by more than 44,000 since the beginning of the recession by 2012. In 2012, the Red Cross of Slovenia helped 150 thousand 186 socially disadvantaged individuals with food." These are the numbers you have to worry about that are amazing! When I read this, I almost couldn’t believe that I was living in such a country and that I was a member of the National Assembly, which in this way governs this policy. But me and the Slovenian Democratic Party thank God we are thinking in a different direction, and even when we were running this country, we went to the administration of this country in a completely different way. Finally, it reads: "From the beginning of the year until the end of October 2013, the Red Cross of Slovenia divided 2 000 400 tonnes of food and 105 tonnes of laundry powder." This government and this government coalition have also allowed themselves to be taxed by these humanitarian organisations. Are you really not ashamed?Oh, my God! Can I not say that I will not be misspoken — can you absorb this?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, here we have the Social Democrats talking about social policies that say they are fighting for social sustainability, for social justice, Mrs Bratusek when she was performing and talking about the budget and so on. Please! Look around you, look around you, look at the poor Slovenian man, look at my people in Slovenian Gorica! Go to Šentilj, Sweet Top, go to Pomurje, Prekmurje, to Koroška. Go take a look and see what this real estate law means to these people. You'll see! Please step on the real ground for once in your life. That's what I have to tell you. One of the representatives of the coalition, who here today expressed the position of the parliamentary group, said, among other things: "The government's work depends on the adoption of these acts." Now please explain to me, coalition Members, whether at this moment the key question is whether we have a government or a more important question for this Slovenian nation to survive. Who allows himself to discuss in this House that the fundamental question is that this government exists and destroys the Slovenian nation on average, rather than worry about how these 110, 120, 150 thousand Slovenes and Slovenians standing in a column in front of the Red Cross will survive! This is unacceptable, this is extremely irresponsible, and I would not support such a law even if you put me on the cross because I love my Slovenian people, I live for my people! I do not allow anyone to take or usurp the right to exploit, destroy and exploit their own people in this way. That's bullshit on a cubicle!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u179	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think we should also go to the field not only of the so-called revenue side of the budget, but today we should also talk about the development function of tax legislation in the Republic of Slovenia. Before that, I listened with great attention to my colleague Kunič, who said that they were advocating that business, industrial property should be taxed at a rate less than housing. I don't know, Mr Kunič, you may have mixed up, these were the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not only are they smaller, but just in case you know what it says in the amendments prepared by the government coalition – you have prepared that 0.15% of the value of this property is for residential and residential property and 0.75% for business and industrial property. The Slovenian Democratic Party has prepared 0.05, which is a 3-fold tax on commercial residential property, for residential property, where someone is a resident where the owner lives in it, and 0.10% for business, industrial, energy properties. That's the difference. We are the business objects where people work, where they produce, where they pay taxes, where they will most likely be less unemployed, at least. This is the Ethos of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which advocates a better business environment. This real estate tax has no development function. We can say that justice or injustice is subjective, perhaps among our values, but in this tax many people talk about total injustice in this country. The Slovenian farm is a large average of 6.5 hectares. In the Slovenian Gorges where I come from, Lenart, Church, Benedict, not to mention, the Council of Trinity and so on, these properties are in the hills, on the hills, on hard-to-reach terrain. This government estimates it all the same. It does not separate hilly farms, remote farms, from some serious tax policy. On the other hand, we note that Slovenia is growing, it is unprocessed. Thirdly, Minister Židan tells us how he will raise Slovenian self-sustainment to give 1.5 billion for food. He's not here today, but he's a co-author of this, he's the vice-president of the government, he's destroying agriculture. Everything that has not yet destroyed the floods, earthquakes, or earth’s reptiles is destroyed by you. People have survived three wars on these farms, and with this government you will destroy everything. It's a non-developmental function! Look at the sequel, what's going to happen! You're not looking five years ahead. We have a country on our side – Hungary opens, Austria, we have Croatia in the European Union, which provides exceptional conditions for the entry of foreign capital. On the other hand, we are talking about one stage of the so-called sale of state property. Anyone who buys state property will also look at all the tax burdens in his analysis, and he will find that this is an extremely poor business environment. On the other hand, all those who enter with some capital will find the same. The development function of this tax is devastating for the Slovenian economy, and more and more will be unemployed. These amendments cannot be supported by a normal, sane person, a citizen of this country. This is not some sort of nagging of opposition to the coalition MPs, but you are really taking on a great deal of responsibility in these days for Slovenia's economic downturn next year. This will happen because it is impossible — without foreign capital at this time. That's what he's bringing in. [[Incomprehensible]] We're not going down. This tax destroys and will further destroy the Slovenian entrepreneurial environment. This is what is most important – it will destroy agriculture, it will destroy Slovenian entrepreneurs who will decide at some point at the so-called breakthrough point and move from this country to another, better business environment, which is a few kilometers away. So there are no more problems. You're not aware of this sinking future. From the smallest part you said: we will quickly tax, fill the budget hole, and we solved the problem. Look, gentlemen, that's not how it works. Once again, I seriously warn you, you will take responsibility for the economic breakdown of this common country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. I would like to ask for some peace in the hall so that the discussers can speak fluently. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us a law on drastic taxation of the Slovenian population, economy, agriculture. It was clearly the principle of this coalition and this government that the most patient must be hit by the citizens of Slovenia. Since 1945 the Slovenian Left has constantly looked south, and this nostalgia has not yet ceased. From there, from there, from those spaces, she brought a rake at that time. Harac was a Turkish tax aimed at destroying the local population, moving the local population to settle with foreign people. It seems that the principle of the current government is the same, because when it taxes the spare potential of the Slovenian farmer, the forest, with a haraic rate, then you know that it has no good intentions. I know the value system of the Slovenian farmer, because I come from there alone, and they never spent one euro on luxury! Not yet. If there's any income left, he's reinvested. Such citizens, such mentality and such values should be encouraged by the Slovenian Government rather than suppressed. I think that this is done consciously, because three years ago Minister Križanič passed the law, with the rates significantly lower. Now, the Social Democrats are advocating these drastic tax rates, but at the same time it is happening that rewards for certain categories of the population are paid in this way. Tell us the plan. Why did you make it — so that the diligent Slovenians would move out of these areas because it would not be possible to live? Who are you planning on settling on these soils? Unacceptable rates of taxation destroy the economy, craftsmen, agriculture, as has already been said, those who have poured their or mainly stolen money into luxury and foreign tax havens – but do not try to do so there. Yesterday, I told you, in the budget, you are reducing the money for the criminal service so that those who have robbed Slovenia will be protected from their cases becoming obsolete. You do not want to investigate this – in all areas completely wrong, anti-Slovenian policy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Joseph Horvath is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are in Article 6, to which we have also tabled an amendment in New Slovenia. We are talking about tax rates, and instead of the introduction, let me just point out that a constitutional assessment might also raise the question of when tax at its own level becomes inadmissible. This could be a matter of constitutional judgment. Let's move on. Perhaps I am too idealistic and expected Mr Stepišnik to be present at this point of consideration of this real estate tax law. I expected today at this point, when we are talking about tax rates for business facilities, here in this arena he will be begging all Members to scream, "Economics, the economy, the economy!" – in the style of Steve Ballmer, which I have been talking about these days – and asked us to reduce the level of tax on economic facilities to 0%. Why? We all know the economy is in intensive care. The economy's asking us for oxygen. How can you put pressure on an intensive care patient and send him on foot to the 10th floor every hour? It's not working! He'll die on the 5th floor. Because there is no Minister here who I will not tell him about the Slovenian economy, we have tabled an amendment to Article 6, which seeks to mitigate the negative effects mainly on the Slovenian economy and also on the agricultural buildings, and we want to see a rate instead of 0.75% for commercial, industrial properties only 0.40%, as is currently envisaged for energy facilities. For example, if you say 0.75% for business and industrial property today, but only 0.40 for energy, then it must have been in addition to the energy lobby. I logically conclude that, from some or all of the coalition parties, directors from the energy lobby have pressed and said that they are not going to go unless the energy properties are taxed substantially lower, almost for factor 2 lower than for other commercial industrial facilities. We also propose that [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Madam President?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u184	I was just about to. Stop time, please. I ask colleagues and colleagues to allow their colleagues to speak calmly and freely when they have the opportunity to do so. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u185	I am very grateful, Madam President. What else do we suggest? We propose that the tax rate for agricultural buildings should be reduced by half, from 0,30 to 0,15. Colleagues and colleagues, be careful, the Slovenian countryside is empty. I won't mind if we do so when the gross social product has a rate of growth, say, 2.5% – then we can raise the tax rate for economic facilities. But now that the economy is in intensive care, it just doesn't work. Many companies that are now on the threshold of profitability will be shut down. What solutions do we regret? We regret that this law does not have relevant international comparisons, which every law should have. One more thing. The Slovenes are many of our houses, we have built our own houses, and they are holy to us, they are our shrines. I understand that if someone else has a house, a second apartment and a third apartment, a seventh, an eighth to tax them, perhaps even progressive — in order to reverse the real estate market, which this law is likely to contribute to at least partially. But the first home, the first house, which is my home, which we have built more or less, as it were said, ourselves, saved – we could have put savings down our throats, but we didn't. We were already paying for transport taxes, VAT and so on. And now the state comes and says, "Hop, first to me and then to you, if you have anything left." I truly regret what has already been said today that facilities serving humanitarian organisations will also be taxed. Have you ever watched how European aid is shared, how Karitas, the Red Cross and so on? Now the state says: the rate of this aid, first to me and then to those who need it. Please, where do we live? I'll make a dot here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. It's Mr. Croat's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't have much time, either. The tax rates – we are now talking about this amendment – are too high, and I absolutely support the amendment that reduces these tax rates. The most important thing is to tell me again why this law is being introduced. Too bad Mr. Kunic went out of the hall now. You are excused by the Coalition Members and Members of Parliament that this tax is necessary in some way to at least approximate the balance of the budget or to fill the deficits of the budgets. With these 200 to 300 million euros, we will certainly not fill the budget. The hole is significantly bigger than you've been selling lately, even the president of the government and the coalition than that. The European Commission's macro-economic indicators forecast – for 2014 we are forecasting the last place between 28 countries and for 2015 it is forecasting the last place between countries after economic growth. When this law enters into force, the European Commission foresees more than once more a deficit than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia foresees. I'm talking about 1.5 billion more deficits. That means only a bad fifth of the money to cover this hole. This money, which we will accept today or in the coming days in the form of a real estate tax, will mean that we will pay off this money to pay for the privileges of between 35 million and 40 million. In my opinion, the law is unfair and unfair. The law will have the greatest impact on Slovenian rural areas and will affect those who have already been deprived, local communities, economy, crafts, medium and small entrepreneurs. It is easier to say, as the President of the Social Democrats said: "The budget is 4 times easier to fill with taxes than with savings." If that means an alternative to that, then God forbid you ever come into power again. This tax will burden the majority of people, people who receive low wages, low pensions, who barely spend a month, who can afford to pay their bills to buy cheap food, and in the end there is nothing left. To these people in June, you will send another position at an average of 200 to 300 euros, which will have to be paid. Where they get the money, you don't care. It bothers me that you say how social you are, how do some of the coalition members support pensioners who have low pensions, but what will you do tomorrow? Tomorrow you will vote for the real estate tax. We will certainly not vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I myself would never press for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Mrs Vraničar, when you said that it is in agreement with the municipalities, that these transitional provisions are valid, that they agree why you did not go to Celje, the ministry where all the mayors were gathered and would tell you how much they are for such transitional provisions. Indeed, these transitional provisions are most harmful for rural municipalities, which are understandably less than large urban municipalities, because they do not have so many economies, so many public buildings. They now receive only 40 % of the part of the tax that would have been due to them if the tax had entered into force immediately, without these transitional provisions, or 20 % of all the rural tax collected, are received back by the municipalities. They only get as much as their NUSZ, the minus tax they pay at primary school, kindergarten, all buildings, cultural homes. That's a fact. That's what the calculation shows. For those congregations, such as Velenje, who now collected 7 million NUSZ, there will be a new 4 million 400,000 property taxes. Of these, only 2 million would be theirs, and in these three years they will receive 6.5 million, in order to collect 4 million euros from the total tax. Of course, these congregations will be in favor. These are mainly all the municipalities except Ljubljana. Ljubljana does not get the difference that NUSZ had. The difference is significantly lower for them than for other municipalities. This is a disaster for all these rural congregations. By charging each household – so far it has been burdened with about 50 euros per household, and now they will be paying 300 euros per year. However, they receive significantly less than they have now received back NUSZ municipalities, the first three years when it will be the worst, although you say that in 2015 it will already be economic growth to make it easier. I don't believe that, and I think it's unconstitutional to pick up in the countryside and then split up in rich city halls. That's Article 23. The first paragraph says: "The revenue from the tax in 2014 belongs to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia", that I do not then read the continuation, as much as we give back. We don't give that money back if the municipalities don't use cohesion funds. In this case, it won't happen at all. I think it's the biggest injustice here, and the old saying is, when people become quiet, let's stop being burdensome. The people are quiet, there's no one on the balcony. You will see what happens next year when municipalities are unable to pay for projects that are set up, which are built from cohesion funds. Then how are we going to handle this? I do not think that this law, as such, should be adopted in any way by means of these transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Vranitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u191	Thank you very much. A couple of specifics and numbers. In view of the proposed solutions under the proposal for a real estate tax law, the average real estate tax should be EUR 147. Earlier, 300 euros were discussed as an average burden. Data from the real estate register show that the average value of residential property is EUR 78 000 800, and in this burden this means EUR 147 per such property or EUR 1.9 per square metre. When there was a speech on the destruction of agriculture – if we take the information that the average Slovenian farm is 6 hectares, let's say because of the simplicity that it is all agricultural land, then on average 60 euros of tax is paid for such a farm. Of course, the amount of this tax depends on whether it is a farm in the suburban plain or whether it is a mountain farm because the value is different. However, given that the cap is fixed, the maximum amount of tax paid for 6 hectares of agricultural land is €80. If it were a farm that had only forest land, and I knew this was a purely hypothetical case, such a farm would on average pay €18 per 6 hectares of forest. In the event that this forest is valued at the highest possible value, it would pay EUR 30 per 6 hectares per cap. For an agricultural facility, an average of 10 cents per square metre shall be paid. It is difficult to say here how large the average size of the agricultural facility is, so I should stay only for the average load per square metre of the agricultural facility. Business real estate – 5.8 euros per square meter. Industrial properties – 2.1 euros per square meter. Once again, I stress that there are differences due to the different burdens under the current legislation. As for the transitional provisions and arrangements with the interested associations of the municipalities, this is also the case. At a meeting at which both the Community of Slovene municipalities and the Association of Slovene municipalities and the Association of Slovenian Municipal municipalities were present, it was requested that the one-year transitional period foreseen in the draft by the Ministry of Finance be extended to a three-year transitional period. From an expert point of view, a transitional period is required in Article 23 only for 2014. For 2015 and 2016, the transitional period is fixed on the proposal of the Communities’ interest associations. If you consider this inappropriate, I propose that the amendment should be tabled and the transitional period should be reduced to 2014 only. As regards the meeting on 23 October – this was the day on which it is here, a debate was held in this assembly on the 2015 budget. Since we were invited to this meeting of the congregations before the formal invitation went out, we asked them to postpone the meeting so that we could attend the meeting at the level of the ministry’s management, but this move was not possible. Because of this obvious lack of willingness to talk and to face the congregations, I simply cannot accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! With the amendment to Article 6, we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the separation of housing properties to residential and non-residential properties should be abolished due to all the complications that this distinction brings. First of all, such an arrangement will bring major administrative problems and, above all, unequal treatment of taxpayers. First, a very life-threatening problem arises when parents are no longer able to let their children use their property or will be characterized as non-residential without paying the rent. Secondly, we point out that the envisaged regulation directly promotes the administrative relocation of spouses or family members due to a more favourable tax treatment. To illustrate, children will not be able to live in the property of their parents, as this property will be taken into account as non-residential against the debtor and will thus have to pay the tax, as we know, at a higher tax rate. Obviously, the bill-maker expects that the narrowest of kinship will be governed by mutual legal relations in the context of broadcasting or staying in real estate, and this will lead to a lot of administrative complications and also a lot of costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Attack has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! Over the past 4 years, global public debt has increased by 53%, and higher than taxes, less money remains for financial markets. The planned revenue foreseen by the government of Alenka Bratušek will not be realized and will be illustrative. This seems to me to be an unserious cooling of the economy and an illusory tax policy. We follow the philosophy of a new type of indulgence when an ordinary person begins to feel like a foreigner on his own land. In fact, belonging to the Slovenian nation does not fall as strongly as in the home country of the Slovenian nation. The analysis of data for individual parcels of agricultural and forestry land on one farm shows that according to the intended value they are overestimated by more than 20 times. Only by chance could two taxpayers with a real estate tax be equally taxed according to their intended value. For example, in Austria they have a 5 times lower basic tax rate than the proposed tax rate in Slovenia. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. It will also be serious for heirs in the legacy debates. If young farmers are not the only heirs or have no comprehensible relatives, the farms are doomed to failure, as it is impossible to overpay the farm at the time of takeover. For example, the Americans call death convicts "dead men walking," and people also protest with these inscriptions on their shirts. Maybe we should go to Slovenia. The tax will be accepted and imposed on them, and just as we are pressing buttons here, Slovenia is going at the same speed to the abyss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. The Secretary of State said what was the purpose of the tax. You also wrote down what is a property tax: "In countries with a market economy, this type of tax has a long tradition. Its basic function is to provide funds for local funding. The tax therefore has the nature of some utility tax, but when it is linked to the value of the property, it also contains the element of taxation of property as property." You are doing something else – fill out the budget, but you are not regulating the situation as you said in Slovenia. It could be arranged differently. We are lowering our tax rates because we are assessing that the new burdens of the economy are a path to collapse. They do not mean economic growth, not new jobs, not higher employability. Even now, many businesses are in a very difficult situation because you are suffocating them with new and new taxes. Many cannot bear the burden, ask for the order of payment at Durs and so on. This will bring them new problems again, including the vital work that pays taxes so that we can finance public spending. That is why I will support our amendment, which reduces tax burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments tabled under Article 6? If there's no desire to discuss it, is there a wish? [[...]] I'm sorry. I am opening an application for discussion with the amendments tabled in Article 6. Two panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr Branko Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u199	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All respects, good afternoon! Unfortunately, I will not support the amendment. Why? Taxes were never well received, that's well known. As I come from the economy, I am even more sensitive to taxes. The real estate tax is a tool to save the country. There is no doubt that the citizens will be further affected, especially by the weakest, but the proposed property tax is proposed for two purposes, due to the unification of property taxation in Slovenia. Once again, for the sake of unification, we were not all the same in Slovenia before the law. In the past, one third of the population or municipalities did not collect and tax property. Now all municipalities and all dwellings are subject to real estate taxation. Here it is very interesting that some of us have already had to pay compensation for the use of building land. Someone mentioned Pomurje earlier. I think Pomurje was one of the most suitable in paying this tax, and also the tax was quite high. I wonder where those who would have been against that tax were then. Unfortunately, you were gone. The craftsmen, the farmers were in a worse position at the time and even now. They weren't the same. What is more interesting — I don’t know when it was proposed or the beginning of this law. I have here a copy: a proposal for a law on the mass valuation of real estate, April 21, 2006. Interesting thing. Earlier, one gentleman mentioned – Mr Janez Podobnik was Minister, you know from which party. Nor was he in the government of Mr Borut Pahor. What else is interesting? It has already been evaluated, and I quote, "measure number 6 – the imposition of property tax," by the Reform Committee. In the first report of 6 October 2005, when introducing a real estate tax, it proposes an impact assessment that will increase fiscal revenues by 30 billion dollars, the current 125 million euros. Interesting, isn't it? That's why I'd keep going. This is also interesting because, most likely, if, at the time that Mr Borut Pahor led the government, those three structural reforms were to be adopted, perhaps today this property tax should not be accepted. But yesterday someone said, "Who will take responsibility?" That's interesting, too. Finally, I wonder whether, if the property tax is not adopted, we will also abolish the remuneration for the use of the building land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I don't know what else citizens in this country can do to make the government of Alenka Bratusek finally hear them. I'm not talking about listening because the secretary of state is here today, but all citizens and citizens are interested in being heard. Listen to me! I'm going to quote what the Prime Minister of the Government said on Monday, and what we've all been covered up about today, probably mostly if that was really said. We checked and found it in the tape. I quote what Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek said: "With taxes we allow citizens to feel safe in their own country, that they don't have to go looking for work, not knowledge, not health in foreign markets if they don't want it themselves." What situation in the country are we talking about? Where do the young people go now? They're going abroad. To feel safe under taxes — I don’t know if we all sound the same? Do all of us think about the same things that these taxes will mean for our country? I have also heard this many times today — that people demand righteousness and that injustices and mistakes from the past are corrected, that we have not all been the same. But now that we all know that the properties have been misvalued? Will we all be equal under this tax now and the injustices will be repaid back? Will this real estate tax fix and resolve this situation? Will it force all those who have come to property in an illegal way to return it? Will the property tax be made to pay back the unjust and unlawfully acquired property? Who are we blinding? While reducing all the resources for the criminal service in the budget, it says that this will not be done because we will prevent the criminal service from doing so. For all of this, there is already a law, including the seizure of property of illegal origin. Clearly, it is not the political will to say that we will end this, as we have done in all our neighbouring countries. Where is this political will? Just collect taxes from people so that the farmer will truly become a servant on his own land, that the craftsman will see the greater meaning of shutting down the company, moving abroad, across the border, and here firing some of these employees. If all of this is true, what it says today on the Internet is that all of this is about real estate tax is about misleading citizens and citizens. This is about the country collecting 200 million, and in the background it is about to rehabilitate two smaller banks, where the country will give a strong multiple of that amount, and we are not talking about it. This is a sad, sad present for this country. Once again, where should people turn? They gave away signatures, petitions were made, and then they stop you on the street and say, "Do something." We do, but it's true what's been said so many times on all the boards: dogs bark, caravans go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 6? Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I hope we're talking about Article 6. If I had understood earlier, Madam Secretary of State, the amendments to Article 6 would have meant that the state budget should pay the municipalities 100 million euros. Is anyone kidding, ladies and gentlemen? Are you serious? Now someone's telling me we have Slovenians for fools. Who thinks anyone's a fool? Please, let's hear what they're telling us here, what they've told us before on the boards everywhere. Individuals also say that we will give small congregations to large congregations. That's a clean lie. In the municipality from which I come, we have collected 6 million compensations for the use of building land. This is said to have taxed our citizens more than anywhere else in Slovenia. This law would give the congregation 2 million, while a third of the municipalities did not collect compensation for the use of building land. This is what we talked about when we talked about how it would be right to equalize local communities and communities everywhere, so that it would be right for everyone to pay for everyone to pay compensation for the use of building land. This would be a good place for us to be the same. All those who talk about money being poured into cities — perhaps. If you go to see how small congregations, roads, the environment, schools, kindergartens, and everything else are arranged, and you go to see larger congregations, then you will find a significant difference. In larger municipalities, we have significantly worse infrastructure, at least where I was going. This means that we had to allocate the resources of municipal budgets for the common tasks of municipalities, for culture, education, libraries, institutions that are common, and we had to finance it. From this point of view, let's try to listen. I think this marriage is extremely important. They said and said that by means of this law we are trying to obtain the missing funds by paying those who have the property, not those who do not have the property. The fact is, the one with the property and the small incomes is poor. Maybe, but he's got assets against the one he doesn't have. Therefore, the criterion of taxation of property, ladies and gentlemen, was Slovenian property. When I listened to Madam Secretary of State, how much will an average Slovenian farmer with 6 hectares pay a large farm – how much? 70 euros? In Del, I read that four farmers with a tractor were driving around the National Assembly. One of them was asked how much he would pay the property tax. He said, "I haven't had time to look or ask how much I'm going to pay because I'm going to get a decision anyway." But he protested! That's why I think we should really love this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments tabled under Article 6? I see a desire to discuss it, so I'm asking you to apply. Three panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We are constantly listening to how this tax will definitively end the practically destroyed country, farmers, real estate owners and so on. At this point, I would like to stress once again that this is a compensation for the four existing taxes, in particular a tax called compensation for the use of building land, and that this is a measure to further reduce the deficit of the budget, but in a way that is most equitable in the way that it will tax those who have something. So he's taxing his property. By establishing a new tax, it is essentially a conversion of the existing unequal and opaque and outdated model of taxation — compensation for the use of building land. In particular, this tax will create a more equitable, transparent and modernised collection of property tax. What does that mean in practice? On average, the real estate owners will pay 3 euros more a month to put things in the right relationship. Of course, it is some kind of increased taxation, but the difference between someone who has paid very little or paid nothing so far and someone who may have paid more than that. In this sense, the establishment of an extreme moment is a modern way of taxation of property. With regard to the application of this deficit reduction instrument, it is worth mentioning that the real estate tax is a significantly nicer measure than the cuts that would have hit us if we had a Cyprus or, worse still, a Greek scenario. In this case, the consequences would be much worse as Brussels would require drastic wage cuts in the public sector, pensions and social transfers. So it is the deadline for us to update this tax and equally divide the burden of taxation of property among all real estate owners. I would add that in this way, I would like to stress once again the compensation for the use of the building land used in the last 30 years in an outdated way. Some municipalities did not even introduce compensation for the use of building land in those 30 years and preferred to rely on the State to finance them through financial compensation. Even in the congregations where they have a replacement, it happens that they do not account for it to all. There are known cases of homeowners paying in the same street, while others do not. Whether this is fair, I ask those who so condemn the introduction of this new tax. I would also like to say something about humanitarian organisations. The problem with identifying which humanitarian organisations are truly humanitarian and which are not, is that they would prevent abuse from taking place. If, for example, we confirm the amendment proposing a complete exemption from the tax on humanitarian organisations, then many of us would find that it is worth registering a humanitarian organisation for which, as we have found, there are no verifications, specific conditions, and that would in fact be completely exempt from the tax. Finally, one of the basic guides in the enforcement of the tax was the rule that no exceptions were allowed. Finally, I will express my conviction that by this tax we will divide the burden of the economic crisis more in solidarity among all social strata than if the Government decides that the budget is a mess with a crisis tax. Compared to the crisis tax, on average, citizens would be burdened with 30 euros per month, as we have seen, on average there is an increase in the burden of this tax and the abolition of compensation for the use of building land only 3 euros more per month. From this point of view, I will also reject the amendments to Article 6 and fully support the tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u207	Let him understand who can. 30 euros, now it will be only 3 euros more, before it was 200 million, and now it will be 400 million more. Well, that's just math. Talking about congregations that did not collect is a lie because the congregation that did not collect is in one place — other languages also know it, ours has a dual — the Rogasovites. A colleague of Meh's. Your citizens of Velenje were not overly burdened. It's not true what you're saying. The NUSZ for legal persons was 6 million and something, and for natural persons a million and something. On the 33 or 34 thousand inhabitants you have, it is €28.29 per capita. The Juršinci municipality, which I was talking about, with 50,000 levies collected, was also charged with 25 euros, and they do not have such an economic infrastructure around them that legal persons would pay 7 times more, but they paid 7 times less because it is not. That means the quality of life, where something can be done and earned, and that's it. In one word, admit the law you proposed — or you do not have to admit it — because everyone in this country, largely except some tycoons, of course, says and knows that it is harmful and that it is unjust. This way, when you want to beautify some things, you just can't be. Do you know what this law characterizes? This law is characterized by the argument that all the professions that know anything have that the law stinks, that it is bad, and, on the other hand, that the rush and ignorance of the government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u209	Thank you. It is difficult to discuss because I know that we are convinced, and sometimes energy is better kept. Something only bothers me in this matter — this constant repetition that the tax is unjust. Every tax is kind of unfair. This practice has, however, been criminal at all because we had a type of area in Slovenia, not to say municipalities where no compensation was introduced for the use of building land. I have already said why — because the mayors, the municipal councils, knew that they would receive financial compensation. And why would they introduce their own sources of income if they got it out of the country if they lacked it. In this way it is true that they have also accelerated, for example, in trade-industry zones, to get an investor and so on, but on the other hand we have introduced inequality between citizens and legal entities in Slovenia. This inequality is done in such a way that we no longer depend on the mercy or mercy of the local community, read the mayor or the municipal council. This is in a way definitely, I'll say, removing this inequality. The biggest shout and screams are raised by those who have not paid anything so far. Here, however, problems will arise as a result of the introduction of the so-called transitional period and because the local communities themselves have suggested that this transitional period is longer than the State Secretary has already said it would be necessary professionally. It would have been a year, but the local community wants three years. Not to say that I speak my mind — when we got these calculations from the congregations, say, specifically in the district from which I come. Economic operators will pay 28% less in the municipality of Postojna, 12% less in the municipality of Pivka and 26% less in the neighbouring municipality of Cerknica. This means that it is not true that the economy will be taxed more than it sounds today, but it will be retaxed somewhere where it has not been. From here also this difference between 200 and 400 million because the territory and the base are expanding. As far as the rates are concerned, I cannot support the proposal for non-residential housing to be taxed in the same way. If we are talking about the development component of this law, it is precisely in forcing those who have more real estate – in this particular case we are talking about housing – to put these apartments on the market, to lower prices, to defrost the frozen cash flow held by banks, as well as some real estate companies, in vacant properties. I think we all have to do this together. Similarly, the talk was about the need to overcome the need for someone who has land, even the land that is defined as building land — because we know that in the past they have been very hasty and competitive in some local communities, who will change as soon as possible, for example, agricultural land in buildings to sell at higher prices. This boomerang effect, which will now come back, will force the opposite – that they will want to change things already adopted with spatial plans in the municipalities. This will encourage all sorts, some positive, some negative, but once again, the tax is basically systemic. We all know that, but so far there has simply been no corruption, because every government that's got this thing on the table just like a hot bone quickly packed and threw it in the trash. This is a fact, and from this point of view, it is likely that this crisis, and also the needs for balancing the budget, have led to the fact that this government has also addressed this area, which, once again, has been professionally in all governments for a long time and has been rolling for at least 15 years in Slovenia, but it has simply not been the courage to do so, because so far it has been enough to tax work, income and, as you well know, consumption, while no one has touched property. Even the tax that we now abolish, the so - called property tax, has not been charged at all by many. Many avoided it, and no one controlled whether or not they paid the tax. Depending on whether someone was benevolent to the state and to the congregation, this tax was paid. A lot of people didn't pay him at all. We had a strange, hybrid relationship, and to be perfectly honest, most of the opposition gets urticaria when they hear about some kind of socialist tax. The contribution to the use of urban land stems from socialist times and has not changed. However, the real estate tax has been introduced in European countries. You have already heard a comparison today – even after the introduction of this tax, Slovenia will still be much lower on taxation than the OECD average. I'm talking about the rate, not the amounts. So I have a better feeling that the matter is being dramatized. When we talk about specific absolute numbers, we see that this thing is not so hot. In the area of agriculture, however, it seems to me that if anyone is a winner in these negotiations with the Government, it is certainly a sector of agriculture. I think that the negotiators who represented agriculture were doing a great job negotiating. From the whole of agriculture, we will receive 16 million in this tax in Slovenia, and so many words. On the other hand, if we know how many subsidies have been put into agriculture in recent years, especially the biggest problem – I know that many disagree with this – that we have managed to get 83% of our self-sustainment in 20 years, as much as we currently do in Slovenia. It's not as dramatic as it's trying to show itself, and I don't think we should talk so much about this fate, the fate of the fate of the moment, as we now want to show that everything is going to collapse. It will not collapse, but it is true that we will have great problems where so far there has been no compensation for the use of building land. That's right. I also understand here, I will say, opposition, resistance and also individual political actions in this regard. As it is said, in view of the changes that have been made in these negotiations too, given that no one will get on his nose only decisions and pay taxes immediately – you know that Gurs will first send notices and that everyone will be able to reconcile their data and also correct them before they start going out in April. No soup is eaten as hot as it is cooked. This one will also cool to a large extent. We know how we objected or opposed when, for example, she introduced a ban on smoking in restaurants and so on, and everyone shouted that this was the end of a sector and so on. Today, everyone finds that this is not the case. I believe that this world, also called by the Government of Real Estate Market Experts, will be able to have any anomalies or any shortcomings of this law, for the first time, hear, and for the second time that it will also propose a change. Again, I don't see things as dramatic as they are trying to show themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u211	Thank you very much. When a person prepares for a debate in the National Assembly, I have a desire for expertise and then I fall into this river of populism, and today again. My debate will be like this, because that's what you're talking about here. I tell you, me, Mirko Brulc wouldn't pay taxes. I can go before the National Assembly to collect signatures, no problem, because I'm not gonna ask who wants to pay the tax, but who doesn't pay it, and I collect signatures. A tractor around the National Assembly did not drive a pensioner, a worker, an official, a teacher, but a farmer. I didn't see the tractor – maybe 60, 80, 000 euros was worth, bought with a subsidy, and that could be the result. Believe me, the peasant lobby won the most in this fight, including with the help of the minister of the Jews. Because we talked and we know where he helped to make taxes more tax-friendly for this area than for some others. And that's right. I don't disagree with that. I have a house. That's capital. I can't sell this house today because the market isn't working. Will you mark me now that I'm poor? Is that why I'm poor? Is that why you shouldn't pay the tax? Please indicate to me a European country where no tax is paid on real estate capital. I'm rich because I have a house. I used to talk to a reporter here and she said, "I have nothing, I'm poor, I'm young, I don't have an apartment, I have nothing, and you can't tax me." You can't say, "Thank God," because it's not good to have nothing. At least he's got a job, I hope. These are such demagogues as I say, and we are obviously talking in the National Assembly. I paid compensation for the use of building land. If you smoke, 10, 15 packs of cigarettes a month costs as much as the tax on my house below. Not to mention the cell phones that the mularia has. Every other teenager who walks down the street has a cigarette between his fingers. How much money can be saved in the family, the family budget, to give the country something to do that when I get sick, I will be accepted at the clinical centre, that when my documents are stolen, the administrative unit will get the documents back as soon as possible, that my grandchildren, because I don't have a child, will be educated that schooling will not be payable, and that those who are truly poor will receive social assistance. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, well, that's what they say, and that's what I think. That's why I'm paying the tax. Because I am rich because I am not poor because I have a house because I have a solid personal income, this tax will be a little more — to compensate for it with someone who cannot pay it. We all want judges, the police, and so on, to feel safe. I am reading today how the European right speaks about Slovenia, how democracy, the justice system and more will have to be controlled in Slovenia – now that people are starting to go to prisons, when the courts are also condemned and so on, it is necessary to control Slovenia. What if European socialists said that some other countries should be controlled because things are not moving? We do have legislation in line with the European Directive and we do not need these controls and so on. We're not going to control Merkle's way of giving her a BMW in an election campaign – that's their problem, which I don't care about. They say: I built the house myself, with these hands – me, with the shovel. But if a surgeon bought a house instead, which I say is right, because he needs a quiet hand when he's operating, but not shaking because he's a shovel all day, he doesn't deserve a house, and so on – they don't lead such discussions anywhere. This law needs to be supported. He's not brilliant. It is a record in Slovenia – we will still have a headache about what will fall out, but once it has to start. I have already said that the government of Janez Janša started the matter in 2004-2008. Thank God! It's a shame she didn't finish, and then the Pahors didn't end, and so on. We have to do this today. It is necessary to reach a basic law that will probably need to be corrected – to correct records because there will be a lot of evidence, even because I may have hidden 30 square feet of my house or I do not know what. So these things run like this, and do not tell me that the locals of some congregations did not pay compensation for the building land in order to attract investors. I ask you very much - for the mayor to flirt with the voters. But Tush's investors, Mercator and Interspar are here. But they would have come anyway because they destroyed all of our little country trades, what's for the soul, for the people. But these are other stories. Once again, we will accept the tax, I am sure that we may be able to correct it in this mandate or at any time, to supplement it, just as we will the pensioner we have accepted under your government and we know that he is not good and Brussels is already warning us. But then we had to accept it, and that's right. We will also adopt this law, correct it, adapt it to situations and so on, and we will be equal to other European countries. The one who is rich, to pay more, the one who is less rich, will pay less, but the one who cannot pay, and is also looking for options – this is what the Government offers, this law offers – how to solve something bad. I'm not going to support these amendments. Now start.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u212	Procedurally, he was the first to raise his hand. Andrej Vizjak, then Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u213	Your Honor! Vice-President, I have a procedural proposal to remind the debaters who come from the property tax on pension reform that they were missing the topic. Moreover, Mr Brulc is also deluded when he says that this pension reform sucks or that Brussels is saying it and that this will have to be changed immediately. Then, Sir Brulc, I ask you, where is this new pension reform of yours, and have you started any negotiations? The effects of this pension reform are also positive for public finances, and they are very problematic for many who wanted to retire this year and cannot or will not retire next year. They give results, and indeed, and you all know that they do not respond to an ageing society in the long run. We knew that at the time, and we warned of that. That was clear. We could do nothing and not solve any problem, not in the middle, not in the long run. We have solved problems in the short and medium term, and we have made it clear that if we get older, we will probably have to change retirement age or conditions too. Dear Mr Brulc, when we are talking about the real estate law, if the Vice-President does not wish to remind you, let us talk about this law, not pension reform. I ask you to remind them and guide them, but not to talk to everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, I accept your warning, but I must say that I have also been monitoring this meeting from the office and have had the opportunity to monitor quite a few Members, including your parliamentary groups, when they have in some way gone from the subject to other areas of demagogos, but unfortunately they have not been warned by then. Mr. Zvonko Blackach, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u215	Dear Chairman! I believe that if we did not sit in the office at that time, these debaters would be warned, and we are also expected to warn your former client colleague because he has actually gone off topic in the debate. We are talking about an important topic, the real estate tax, we are talking about amendments to this tax, and in its debate it was possible to have 5% of what he said about this topic. He talked about all sorts of things, like this property tax in the historical perspective, and he forgot part of history. Indeed, I am surprised by the Social Democrats who had on the table in the government procedure in 2010 Križanič's real estate tax law at a rate of 0.03, 5 times lower than today – that was the local tax under that law, the basis was 80% of the general market value for all properties – why it was not accepted at the time. I am more interested in how it is possible for the Social Democrats to now support 10 times the sharper law. One more thing. My friend Brulc [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u216	Procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u217	I said it and I'll do it again. Bro Brultz was talking about big malls that would be better off if they weren't. Some congregations taxed them heavily. With this law, you are now reducing these burdens by three to five times — a concrete figure from one of the congregations. Instead of 162 thousand euros, the larger shopping centre will pay 42 thousand euros, 4 times less than it has paid so far. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u218	Please, Mr Cernač – a substantive debate in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u219	Look, Madam President, if you've let Mr. Brullac speak, I think 10 or 15 minutes, then let me tell you why I volunteered within three minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u220	He has debated and spent the time of the Group of Members, and you have not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u221	Look, Madam President, I know that you know the rules of procedure well and that you can also use it, and I ask you not to abuse it from this place where you are sitting. Let me get this straight. With this real estate tax law you give to the rich and you take it from the poor, and everyone sees it, only you don't want to see it. It would be wise for Mr Brulco, when discussing all other matters, to note this and point him back to this topic that is important. I agree that it is important and I would like to hear the arguments on his part why the Social Democrats support the fact that they are more taxed on the poor and less rich, why the winners of this tax are Mercators, Spari, Lidli, Hofers and rich tycoons.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u222	Mr Černač, I did not warn him because I listened to his debate when he mentioned why this tax was being introduced, which led to a lack of resources in the budget, something that had not been adopted in the past and so on. There was a very clear debate. Here's the procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] The first was Mr Happy Meh, right behind Mr Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u223	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same matrix, the same pattern that the SDS has been using for the third day. When they run out of time to discuss, because they discussed substantively and spoke, they use a procedural proposal. It's not right for them to do that. It is not right to make a fool of the rules of procedure, of us, of all the others who have time to debate. So please, honourable Members and Members of the SDS, have some pride. You, Vice President, do not leave, do not let it, or what some want to do from the National Assembly will be here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u225	Thank you very much. At the outset, I'm going to propose a decision that I suggest you make. You must scrupulously punish your colleague Brulco for spreading lies and manipulations regarding today's resolution of Europe's largest international, the European People's Party, which issued a resolution on the state of the spirit in Slovenia. It is not true that it advocates the control of the judiciary in Slovenia – this is an eccentric lie and manipulation – but it expresses concern about the compatibility of the judiciary in Slovenia with the rule of law. Even for all European countries that have not yet carried out lustration procedures, this is a major evil. I ask Brulco to interpret correctly in the future resolutions of the European institutions and the largest international institutions in Europe, but not to deceive Slovenian citizens with this and try to take water to his mill. We know that the past of your political ancestors has not been very clean and beautiful, and this resolution relates to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Who wants to discuss the amendments tabled in Article 6? Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u227	In the procedural proposal, Mr Montenegro asked an interesting question, and let me tell him again. The amendment to Article 6 – if this amendment proposed by the SDS were to be adopted, then 100 million euros per year from the state budget should be added to the municipalities because they would collect less tax than they are now collecting from the municipalities compensation for the use of building land. I've already said that in the debate. Since you have asked this procedurally that you will not have to take advantage of the procedural proposal again, I now answer that we will remember this. That is also what Mrs State Secretary said, which I have heard twice myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, would you like to discuss it? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u229	That's not true, but there's no time to discuss it for a long time. The task force only has three minutes to go. That's why I'm going to tell you this outside this room and draw it for you if you want. I would once again challenge you to support after 3 years a five-fold, ten-fold more stringent law for citizens than what you put under your government in the 2010 procedure. What happened during this period? You used to say, "We have time." I guess so. But you want to collect the people, especially the poor people, out of your pockets, even with this law!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it, Mr. Franz Puksich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u231	Some of the debates were very unfair — the peasant lobby got here. It's just a comparison, and it wasn't me. Franz is in trouble. For the farm in Austria, with 100 hectares of land, with production of about thousands of pigs, taxation is around EUR 122. For such a, roughly the same farm with us, estimated by Durs, depends on where, in which part of the country, there is between €2 million and €3 million, taxation is between €2 000 and €3000. If this is comparable, if such Slovenian agriculture can be compared to the neighbouring one, then only some who know such mathematics are accounted for. That's the first time. Secondly, we'd like to increase self-sustainment. With this, colleagues and colleagues, you are lowering and closing down other Slovenian farms. Young takers will simply not do so under such conditions. Thirdly, regarding this amendment concerning residential and non-residential housing. You know, a lot of apartments or a lot of houses have been built by people working for 7 days and 16 hours a day. If we were honest in this country with our citizens, because we are one specific, one particular thing, the law should be that the first apartment of the one who remains even 300 square meters alone on the farm would be tax-free. For the next, second, third and so on, I say nothing – okay, you have to be taxed. For the apartment you give and save, whether you built it or whatever, a child, for him is the first residential apartment. None of that. What you do with the congregations — I have said several times today. Once again, in the table, only the Municipality of Rogaševci with 300 inhabitants is the one who did not collect the NUSZ. Let's take a look at this and not talk nonsense about how many of these congregations there are. If we do not accept this amendment to Article 6, you will thus end the entire development of the Slovenian countryside, because in this way you additionally burden the countryside, you take the opportunity of financial compensation to the municipalities and thus stop the rurals, giving it to Ljubljana and to the larger, richer municipalities. It's over. I hope this marriage of yours is about the same as that of the Kangler radar in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The amendment that advocates lowering tax rates will not be supported. When we discussed a real estate tax that had been predicted for a really long time, anyone who had ever worked in a coalition government would, of course, if it was not the one who led this government, be able to carry out his plan and coalition governments should also listen to coalition partners. But I would defend the property tax on my own without any exceptions. It ended after Slovenia when there was talk about no exceptions, and then from how strong a group was, it also fell. Interestingly, see, first of all, sacral objects and cultural monuments have been excluded, but if you read Dr. Strehovac's statement on behalf of the Conference Justice and Peace, the Slovenian Bishop's Conference, it is not satisfied that the sacral objects are exempt. He would now have something else, which belongs to the Catholic Church, in order to be exempt from taxation. I'm not gonna tell you what he's suggesting because I'm sure you know this letter. As for the farmers, how they negotiated. What surprises me about these things is that the various lobbyist groups have negotiated, after negotiations with the President of the Government, they have also spoken about what they have accomplished and what they have not achieved, and I would expect that compromise is what they have agreed on, but not that you should go again from the beginning and say that nothing should be like taxation. It has already been said what a tax function it has, but I would like to draw attention to something in particular. When the poverty threshold is identified in the European framework, only current incomes are included to determine the poverty threshold, and no real estate is included. It is said that when we are interested in a country's social picture and when it comes to social transfers, we take into account current benefits. And for these social transfers, you have to have money. When you talk about what the Slovenian people will suffer – I think we have become a nation in the meantime – we forget that all that is financed from public funds is what I think is mainly contributing to development: education, science, development, all that, but it has to be financed from somewhere. Now we can all be scandalous about who's gonna have to give it all away. Have you honestly said how tax liabilities will be allocated to those who cannot pay tax? There's something else I'd like to point out. When you talk — one party likes to talk about it — that it is a tax on merit. You know, it makes me feel worse for those who have been good all their lives, but they couldn't create their own property. They're like that in this country too, and I'm not saying there's a lot more. I'm sorry. When we talk about some building houses and others going to sea, it is not true. In my environment, I could show you a number of people who didn't go to sea and didn't have a house to build. When we talk about the differences between the countryside and the city, I must tell you that one of the typical differences between the countryside and the city is that people in the countryside are at least landowners and at least that is the basis for building the house. I don't like to talk about my personal experiences, but I'm going to say this way. My husband and I came to Maribor in 1970 and wanted to solve our housing problem by building a house. We were able to save for Marles's edit house as two highly educated people, who lived only from our work, but we couldn't afford to buy land because Maribor was auctioning land prices because there were always a lot of people in Maribor who worked outside and were able to pay more. It wasn't about wanting to go to sea and be lazy. Do you understand what I'm saying? It's not a fictional story, it's stories for which there's no life experience and there's no different situations. I'm sure that each one of us is carrying his own life story, but this life story cannot be the starting point of a system law. I don't care how someone got their property if this property is fairly acquired. The second is if it's obtained unfairly. But from this property, which also means security for an individual, there is a need to pay taxes in regulated state systems because we also have a regulated state. I'm very sorry, but that's true. We should simply always ask ourselves whether we have a developed civic consciousness and everything else that this civic consciousness together with the value system consists of. Each of us can have comments and ideas on how a scale or tax scale should be set. Once again, it would be best for me if there were no exceptions. But we've decided differently, we've put up something that we are, and now we can just get back to continuing the game, who's gonna spit on someone more loudly and far away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I still see a desire to discuss the amendments tabled by Article 6. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u235	Hello! I really don't want to spit on anyone, but I want to make a few more arguments, and I also want to respond to some of the arguments in the debate around Article 6. In the Slovenian People's Party we have prepared this amendment precisely, and as you can see, the expectation is that our amendment would be adopted at such a level, so that about the amount of tax collected as it has today compensated for building land. We are convinced that this 200 million increase in one step or 180, 190, 200 is unacceptable. This is pointed out by all tax advisors, and this is a big problem for us to leave the ground and there will be very large jumps because at some point some will virtually be unable to pay this tax. As far as the allegations are concerned, Mr Brultz, how rich we are and who can pay. In this part, I think we have one big problem in Slovenia, namely that the whole range of owners of houses that they have made with two workers' salaries – I don't know your house, but probably something that you or I have alone. Today, we have about EUR 2 000 500 net salary, which is 30,000 euros a year. Many of these pensioners today have, I don't know, 400, 500 euros in pensions and similar assets. There is certainly no correlation in Slovenia, as was the case in Western countries where the property grew with benefits, between ownership of real estate and current earnings. We are most reminded of this by pensioners, people who have come into unemployment or low wages today, those average workers' salaries, and who have prepared this property during the work of generations, and this burden will be very great for them. If they took 1% of our revenue, they would take 50 euros away from the one with 400 euros on the monthly level at the annual level. To those who have thousands of euros on a monthly basis, 120 euros, 300 euros for us, and to managers who have 10,000 euros in salaries, a thousand 200 euros. The crisis itself would rather solve the crisis than the crisis that we are solving in the crisis years 2014 and 2015 in such a way that, for example, we all give more than 500, 600 euros 1% and raise about 130 million euros. The missing €60 million, if missing, is collected with a 20% to 30% increase in the remuneration for building land, and in the following year let us finish this law, which will go unfinished for adoption, and then with 1. 1. 2015 we implement this law. This would also result in a much more fair distribution of burdens. Today we will be as burdened as someone who may have 3 times or 4 times the annual income, and this is a key problem of this law and of Slovenia's differences in the visa of the European real estate area. As far as the congregations are concerned. I myself was the mayor of the municipality, where municipal policy remained. We bought land from farmers, buildings, at normal prices as a municipality, municipally equipped and sold at a half price of 30 to 35 euros, and gave 3 to 5 years of compensation for building land for production activities because it was a municipal policy. In Celje, Comrade Šrot made such a decree that after this calculation the situation will be such that after the new year the shopping centres will pay from 4 to 6 times less than they have paid so far, while the tenant of the good 100 square squares of a large restaurant in the city centre will go from the current 113 euros to a thousand 200 euros – concrete data. These are problems that need to be cut into these scales and taken up for such a marriage for more time. As far as farmers are concerned, I have already said once – Mr Cuffer's bargaining point was very sophisticated, which he calculated at first, I don't know, some 50 million euros. Colleagues, that's 5% of gross realisation, not from the remainder, not from our wages, but from gross realisation, with a few percent left to humans. Which company can afford 5%? With what we are doing now with both effects, both property taxes, if there are 15 million for agricultural facilities plus agricultural land, and about so much more from more income taxes, we will take 30 million, 3 %. It's not working. It's too much. In Austria, I said once before, 3 million collect from 5 times as much land. These are the problems we should talk about. Once again, we are actively involved with the amendments, but basically the law is so ready that we cannot make it any more normal with the amendments, and therefore all of these calls have been made to try to adopt this law in the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u236	Here you go, Mr. Mirko Brulc, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u237	Thank you, colleague Bogovich, for the correct dialogue. I'm glad. That's a sociological problem. Look, the American leaves the house, moves 2,000 kilometers away, changes the house, whatever. We don't have this culture. In Novi Gorica, I tried to make the elderly lady who had a hundred square meters of apartment – we offered her a small manageable apartment with smaller costs and so on, but not because every closet, every picture, every goblin, everything has grown to the heart. This leads to a lot of problems, which we may need for decades to adapt to the situation, that when I have some property, a large house and I cannot fail to maintain it, or pay taxes, or nothing, I will not cry and wait for the state to serve me, but that I will do something about it. It's still missing, and this tax is going to make people think that way, but it's a long process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u238	Thank you very much. If we no longer wish to discuss the amendments tabled to Article 6, we are moving on to Article 7. In Article 7, we have two amendments, the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. We have carefully reviewed the amendment to this article and found that the existing solution in the law is a good compromise between the two amendments of the opposition parties. In fact, the proposed solution is precisely between what the SDS is proposing and what the SLS is proposing, so that we are satisfied with the existing solution. We will reject both amendments and thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc wants to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u241	Thank you so much for saying that. With this amendment, we propose that Article 7 be deleted. Simply because we somehow understand this article or feel that the country is even promoting black construction, since this is the source of the additional tax, a little more tax. Our view is that illegal construction must either be legalised, of course with an appropriate one-off refund, and thus incorporated into the system of normal taxation, or broken. We believe that there is no middle way, and you introduce this middle way through Article 7 into this law. We believe that this middle road is completely unnecessary and inappropriate because this will not solve the problem of illegal construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I do not see a desire for an additional debate on Article 7 and the amendments tabled. This is why we are moving on to Article 8 to which the 4 amendments of the New Slovenia, SDS and SLS Members' Groups are tabled. I am opening a debate on these amendments that have been tabled. Mr. Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u243	We propose that, in the first paragraph, the text of point 8 should be amended by exempting agricultural land from payment. We have repeatedly stressed that agricultural land is the basic asset used for agricultural production, production and the creation of its income. We know that these lands are already taxed with cadastral income, which contains all the elements of the property tax, and therefore it is not appropriate for these land to be further burdened by the property tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next article, Article 9, which includes the three amendments of the SLS, SDS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u245	Thank you very much. If anything, then it is true that the revenues from this tax are a source of funding for local communities. It's part of what's out here. In 2014, only the budget would receive the money from this tax and then give it to the municipalities at the same level as before, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is a tax that is the source of budgets at local level so that municipalities raise the quality of services. It is unacceptable that this tax is becoming a source of the Republic budget. That is also why we are proposing an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u247	When we deny that this law is not European comparable for a simple reason, because if Europe were comparable, then this tax, which will be collected from real estate, would be the original income of the municipalities. It's not like that. That is exactly what we are proposing with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 9 and the amendments tabled. We are moving on to the 10th Article, to which two amendments are tabled, namely the first amendment of the coalition and the second amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u249	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Very briefly. We would expect this amendment made by the SDS to give it to the Ministry of Finance. Because with this amendment, we allow those who have lower-valued property and then the sale shows that this amount is higher than 30% – someone would make sure that this tax is paid back. I think that this tax is for the benefit of all speculations and also for the benefit of the budget, that we know what machinations are with these property values. If he resigns from selling or inheriting 30 %, he must pay the tax in return.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovich wishes to speak to the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u251	Just procedural. Were Article 8 and the amendments to Article 8 considered?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u252	They were discussed and discussed by Mr Mikhael Prevc. We are moving on to the next article, Article 11, where the 5 amendments tabled by the NSI, SDS, SLS and coalition groups. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor. Would you like some, Mr. Franz Bogovich? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Given that this law does not have a social role – this is the law proposed by the Government – we propose to reduce the tax on those who have three children and also to reduce the tax on those who have a higher farm than a thousand metres. We believe that in this law, especially because there is a great difference between property values and income levels in Slovenia, it is essential to include a social component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. By article 11, Nova Slovenija has tabled an amendment that you have before you for one reason only. In fact, we propose a reduction in the tax rate for each minor dependent family member — these are children, stepchildren, foster parents, foster parents — for each of them at 0.02%. In this way, lower tax obligations will be paid [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u256	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u257	Thank you very much. In this way, lower tax obligations will be borne by larger Slovenian families, who have been most exposed to the burden of crisis resolution through past austerity and legislative measures. We really need to pay extra attention to our families — unless someone thinks we have too many. So I'm really asking you to consider this amendment. Madam President, I apologize, but it is true that the 8th article, as my colleague Bogovic and I have found, has gone so quickly that I would ask if the Government could give an exact answer to what we have said in the position of the Group that firehouses will also be taxed. I haven't heard the government's answer yet. We have a thousand 400 voluntary fire companies, and we are a phenomenon in Europe, maybe even in the world. We have 151 thousand volunteer firefighters, and we are a phenomenon in the world as far as volunteering is concerned. We have over 2,000 firehouses, and we are a phenomenon in Europe. We know how firefighters built them, and here I'd like to ask the Government for an exact answer as to the taxation of firehouses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. As regards the burden on firehouses, it must be said that the Government has taken into account the Fire Action Act, which specifically provides for tax treatment for voluntary firefighting companies when discussing their treatment. Moreover, it must also be said that property is taxed in principle according to the type of property, but regardless of who owns the property. However, the Firearms Act provides for specific tax treatment for entities, which means that, if a fire house is owned by a fire company, it will be possible to take into account the specific provision of the Firearms Act. If the fire company has premises in the lease, it will not be possible to take this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u261	In Article 11 of the Slovenian People's Party, we propose that for those who have disabled persons on a wheelchair in the family, this relief is raised from the proposed 30% to 80% in the law. I think that such families are in a much more difficult situation than those where people receiving social support are, so we propose that you accept this first supplement of Article 11. Hereinafter, we propose to give a 12 per cent relief to each child in the family. This is not a relief, but families with more children need more space, and these families will only pay more. We should not be afraid of children – if there are 5, we should give 60%. I'd rather see there's 10 of them, so we'll have to give all the relief. As far as these other things are concerned, Articles 8 and 10 have been linked, as with firehouses, including humanitarian organisations. The debate was on the board. The Coalition has drafted an amendment to Article 10 to the level of 0.50, as for all other facilities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have also proposed all humanitarian organisations as a relief to Article 8. I apologize for speaking, like in previous discussions, about the other two articles. However, I hope that when we vote on this, that these amendments will be adopted and that, not those who care for the social support of others, they will be penalised with high real estate taxes, but that we will exempt them from these taxes and allow them to raise funds themselves from human contributions to those who are in need of support. Let us not make new poor people with this law!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, then Mr Marko Pavlisič and Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u263	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am grateful that you allow the debate to be clarified here by the provisions of the law. If I understand correctly, firehouses owned by congregations or local communities will be taxed. Well, that's my claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u264	Here you go, Mr. Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. It's a system law, and every exception in this marriage is too much. However, since we have already introduced some exceptions, even under Article 11, I will seriously consider supporting any additional good exceptions in this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u267	Vice President, thank you very much. I have waited very patiently for this 11th article. At the outset, I will say that we are not excited about this law, either alone or in the Group of Members. In the beginning, I would also like to say that we cannot avoid this law. In the final stage, they have such laws in all European countries. After all, we also had it in some form in Slovenia, but this has not been regulated in this area. One congregation had no compensation for the use of the building’s land, and the congregations had this different arrangement. In our debate, which we have conducted intensively, as you know what has also been heard, we wanted to protect the socially disadvantaged in particular. Regardless, even real property valuation is a real problem, for the weak will be the most affected. It is true that DeSUS has succeeded with some restrictions in this area, which have in some way been introduced into this bill, which we are relatively satisfied with. As a key question, however, we are now asked whether our country is still a social state. We need to take care of those categories of people on the edge. Only an apartment loses meaning not only if a person does not have an apartment, but even if it does, this apartment is linked to such costs that a person simply cannot pay. Once again, the apartment loses its meaning not only if the person does not have an apartment, but even if he does, this apartment is linked to such costs that a person simply cannot pay. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to provide adequate assistance to those who are most needed because of their unfavourable social situation in the formulation of the rules, enforcement and interpretation. That is why we already have a deferred tax facility under tax law and a possible partial suspension of the tax. All these options will be of benefit to the taxpayer when meeting the conditions, or could be used earlier to compensate for the use of the building land. This will now be passed on to the property tax. Once again, the emphasis in my debate is on socially disadvantaged people. These persons will be able to propose that this tax, the real estate tax, be written off, as they have now had the opportunity to propose a write-off of the NUSZ, as I have warned them before. The condition for such a role is that payment would endanger the survival and survival of its family members. However, the amount of income, income and property of that person and family members shall be determined in the decision. The tax authority is obliged to take into account the specific and added situation when assessing the eligibility of the debt write-off, but even if the property situation of one person, the family, is extremely weak, they will not be entitled to this write-off if they exceed the amount of 265.22 euros per family member. That is the amount of the minimum income under the law governing social protection. I repeat, the amount is 265.22 euros. Under our rules, a person who receives a cent more is not entitled to social rights, among which I also consider tax write-offs. Which one of us is capable of surviving from 265,23 euros a month? Try to ask yourself what it would be like to be in such a situation. How can a person be expected to live a decent life in this amount? I'm deliberately repeating the amount of money that will anchor in your memory. With 265,23 euros we can afford – what? Basically, the cheapest food, the payment of basic bills, water, electricity, utilities, telephones, if you can, of course, clothes – not and not again. That's completely impossible. This is just one person, let alone a family with two compulsory children. I can't even imagine. People with income of 265,23 euros our legislation considers that we are able to pay this new tax, which will hit some less and others more, and the fact is that the basic property for survival, home, apartment or whatever you say will be taxed on an average of less than 2 times as much as was previously paid for the use of building land under the new legislation. Therefore, just a simple question, a proposal to the Minister of Finance or to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs – in my view alone, the Ministry of Finance, you decide – and a question to answer and explain: can the financial consequences of the introduction of this new real estate tax be mitigated at least a little by a rise in the price, which is set either for write-off of 265,22 euros or for a partial write-off of 327,83 euros. I am not just talking about pensioners, – Madam Secretary of State, I hope that you have heard me and that you will also convey this to the Minister of Finance – but to those who are most socially weak. Now I'm going to take this opportunity and take this opportunity, because we still have plenty of time to touch, even though we've already skipped, things about firefighters. Article 50 of the Firearms Act refers precisely to the fact that firefighters are entitled to non-payment of taxes, not only for this but also for certain other matters, while some taxes must be paid. I mean, and I'm sure that maybe we've been seduced here, that this isn't going to happen, because if that happens, then we'll go straight to law reform. Firefighters are mostly not allowed to pay this tax in the following year, according to my opinion. In view of the intense debates we have heard today, the establishment of various problems, I will say this: why do some point out that it is crucial that we do not afford extraordinary, early elections and that we have a government? That's the key. We know how long things have been going on and how long the new government is being formed if we are also counting on having to elect it earlier in the parliamentary elections. This would in no way be good for Slovenia, and that is why this matter is of great interest and concern to us. At first, I said that I am not thrilled to accept so much tax and that we are burdening citizens. The problem is, we don't have any other options. That's a key question. There are, but we need to fix something sooner. Gentlemen, you know very well what governments have been and how long the government has been in power. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm aware, Mr. Vizjak, you don't have to talk about it. We've always been there, but we're not. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Allow me, Mr. Visac, to say to the end. But we didn't carry the main load, we didn't run the game in these governments. If it were, it'd probably be different. You know, let's also talk about real estate tax – I don't like to confront both sides. Remember how we used to take ZUJF? It was hard for us at the time, and it's hard for us now. There's something else about the tractor. I come from the countryside. I'm not gonna say I own it myself because I have a little property, but it doesn't matter. Farmers were most able to draw pre-accession conditions, funds from these various calls, and here I would mention, if you happen to remember, so-called Sapard. At that time, farmers were the ones who could best organise themselves, and these European funds were also pumped. With this they updated their basic equipment, including tractors, sometimes very large, perhaps unnecessary for the size of the farm they own. You know why people ran from village to town? It was getting more expensive in the cities. We have to take care of it. We also have to make a commitment to keep the countryside inhabited. This is of crucial importance to our country. We were headed here in the former country, and we have to worry about that in the future. Let us try to make the most balance among all — farmers, workers, students, youth, the active population, and employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Article 11, tabled amendments – I see that there is no desire after the debate Is there yet? [[...]] Mr. Franz Puksich, please. Do you have a debate? Procedurally. Here you go. Start with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll start with a proposal because I got it after the text. Madam Ptuj asks me whether, on the basis of the debate, because she has now listened to Mr Jurša, DeSUS will support this law or not. It also tells me to remember what she explained to me in my office last Monday. This is the lady who has been in my office for 40 years employed in Mercury, a merchant. He's got 430 euros in pension and one daughter who doesn't have a job.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u270	What is the procedural proposal, Mr Pukšič?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u271	Madam Vice President, then I will complete it. I've already told you what a procedural proposal is, and I will complete it in the end, if you'll allow me, politely to say it to the end. Thank you very much. I am very pleased with your generosity, the power to allow me to speak to the end on behalf of the lady who was in the office. 430 euros, apartment, has one unemployed child, her husband died. How can this lady survive? She also said that she was not ashamed to say that she had no bread for one week a month. And the other case he was. A lady who lives with three hectares and a half of agricultural land, with a barn in which there were once 10 cows and 10 pigs, large roofs, up for feed and so on. She lives alone, her husband dies. How will she survive? But she did have €183 in pension, which she was paying at the time she could pay. However, the procedural proposal is a request that the government coalition does not support this. I want you to put this to a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, I will not put this to the vote now because there will be a vote tomorrow. Here you go, Mr. Happy Meh, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u273	Once again, Madam Vice-President, I protest that members of Parliament use the rules of procedure and discuss it as they should not. And I'll be there anyway. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] This is also a sign of culture and behaviour in Parliament, just as our esteemed colleague behaves at this moment. Mr. Puksic used the rules of procedure. That's not right. It's not right, fellows, to do that if you're colleagues. Respect Parliament, respect the Rules of Procedure, and we will also have a better image and a better position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u274	Thank you very much. There's no replica on the procedure, Mr. Pukšič. Mr Franz Jurša now has a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u275	I have to complete my debate. Actually, Mr. Puksich didn't hear me. We, Comrade Pukšič, will uphold the law. I said we wouldn't do it easily, but we'll back him up. We also said the same thing when we represented the views of our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We turn to the next article, Article 14, to which the amendment of the SLS Group is tabled. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u277	Very briefly. Let's respect the people. They can protest in front of parliament, and in here we are allowed to do what we are doing today. With regard to Article 14: unfortunately, we can no longer correct this law, because obviously in Article 5, things relating to valuation will not be accepted, but the government has also done, or has assessed, in Article 14, what it has promised to do otherwise, so I fear that this amendment to Article 14, which was in good faith to amend the law, is such a nature that the coalition will reject it smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We're moving on to Article 15. Two amendments have been tabled, namely SDS and SLS. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u279	In the Slovenian People's Party, we propose that Article 15 be deleted. It is the fact that the legislator has already predicted in advance that people will have to collect or nationalize their assets. I think it's an insult to people. In all other procedures, if people cannot pay taxes, the state will take them away anyway. This is cynicism that we already know that we are accepting such a tax that people will be able to afford their assets, which have been brought together over the years, decades or generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u280	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the word. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u281	Thank you very much. With regard to Article 15, I would like to reiterate that this is a voluntary, possible measure decided by the debtor if he considers that, in the circumstances of his particular case, he does not fall within the scope of any of the institutions provided for in the Tax Procedure Act, or that he does not fulfil the conditions for write-off or partial write-off of the tax or for the payment of interest. The possibility of entering a land debt on the property is an option, not an obligation. Only and only on the proposal of the debtor can it be implemented. For this reason, I cannot accept the argument that in this case it is a nationalisation or an unjustifiable intervention into property rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u282	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u283	It is true, it is a nationalisation, it is an intervention – because the lady who asked me a question in the office, how she will pay 183 euros in pension for everything I told you before. Mr. Jurša, speak publicly, or at least with the support of any of these amendments, you will help change this, or else I do not know what it means to support the law with a heavy heart. With heavy or light, the law will kill the Slovenian countryside, including with your votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs. Klasinc, would you like a word? Procedural? It's a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u285	Madam Vice President, this article and this bill will be supported. Why? It is difficult to ask anyone at present to understand when extra taxes are to be paid. That's what we all understand. But the decision of this government was very difficult. Or tax those who have a little more or take all those who have a little more? Here's this demagogy that we're always talking about, what a huge cost will be for people who have little property, who are poor, who are on the verge of survival – listen, these people mostly don't have big real estate. What they have is highly underrated. Where there would be a breakthrough, however, the State Secretary has just said how this can be resolved. I would like to remind colleagues and colleagues who have been talking about this demagogism for several days: Slovenia is the last country in the European Union to decide to introduce this tax. For 20 years we have lived in post-socialism, as far as tax policy is concerned in the real estate sector. We didn't have any taxes in this area. For this reason, it is normal to do something. I tell you, in Western Europe, people who cannot pay their taxes lose their apartments. They won't be with us. As the Secretary of State has explained, they will be able to decide whether to pay or leave their property in the future to the State or whatever. But no one's gonna get on the road. That's it. In neighboring Italy, I have a kinship that tells me about these pressures they experience every day. In Austria, they say it's similar. There are many countries where they are 10 times more restrictive. We must somehow go back to the logic that was before socialism. Give the Emperor what is Caesar's, it's an ugly thing to say, but give the country what's national. Any tax will have to be paid. While the government of Alenka Bratusek consciously decided which tax she would make, that is one of the few. We are told about VAT by all economists and people that they are not significantly affected. But at this tax, you run like hell. In congregations where we have already paid high contributions, we will pay now or in the same way or less. Those who haven't paid anything in 20 years are really going to get hurt more. It's not easy for these people, but you know, justice has to be. Somebody hasn't paid anything in 20 years, and he's probably been saving money on this account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u287	Dear Vice-President, all that is right, but I really ask you: we must not and cannot allow such deception to the public as has now been said that those who have not paid so far will pay, and all others who have paid so far will pay roughly the same as before. This is a simple lie that is also reflected in the annexes to this Act. I can tell you about the Brežica Congregation case. The municipality of Brežice was granted compensation for the building plot. It was picked up by 850,000 euros each year and will then be collected by more than 3 million. Thus, the population of this congregation and the economy will be 3 to 4 times more burdened than ever. The state's been picking him up so far, but he's gonna pick him up after the news. This is an increase in the tax burden of all layers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u288	Mag. A visionary, procedurally. You're talking about content. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u289	Don't interrupt me. I wanted to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u290	Speak to the content because you don't have time!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u291	I wanted to substantiate this deception by the Member of Parliament, and I think you need to react as Vice-President when it comes to a manifestly untruth.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u292	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Franz Bogovich, then Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u293	In time, we are more towards the end, that those who follow this will not think that we have been silenced because we no longer have anything to say, but the procedure does not allow time, and you have also driven it away so that we will all run out of it. Firstly, it would be significantly fairer for everyone to go 1% of our revenue to pay for the crisis tax we are talking about. For 200 million – that a pensioner in Ljubljana will pay more than I pay for my house, which is much more valuable because it is such an evaluation. Tax is not fair, both to those who live in cities and to those who live in rural areas. Yes, we will be the last ones to introduce such a law in Europe, but we will be the first or two to be taken from the congregations, the municipal authorities, and transferred to the country. And we are the first, completely first, to introduce real estate tax in order to solve the crisis, and it will be a crisis tax. The crisis tax would have been substantially more fairly distributed and would have been paid by 300 euros and by those with low incomes by between 50 and 100 euros. We are not honest, and we are not righteous in this [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. I want to know how the payment is arranged for cases where, say, during the flight, there is a major accident. For example, in the Old Church, a school burned down that the congregation of Kočevje is in no way renewable. The real estate tax has been or will be imposed. What about it now? The same could happen in the agricultural economy. The arrow hits the economic building, the livestock goes, the real estate goes, and the taxes stay. Are there any instruments in this case for these matters to be settled on an annual basis? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u297	It's about that question. The Real Estate Tax Act does not have specific solutions for such cases, but the Tax Procedure Act, which provides for the possibility of write-off, partial write-off or interest payment of the tax in the event that it is not possible to pay the tax in full due to annual events, as it has been assessed. This is for the year in which the tax has already been imposed, but for example, there is one such accident as you mentioned. For the following year, the value of the property will also change because of the changed circumstances, or the property in the form of a building will be no more, it will only be land, and it will also be known on the load forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, do you have a procedure? Please, if you stick to the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I do not think that the Secretary of State has stated this precisely because this is not regulated in the transitional provisions of this law. In the real estate law, it's not settled. If this is so arranged as you say, then it must be settled in a single matter, not to refer to a law that is not written here or between laws, and the provisions are not covered in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u300	Mag. Varying Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u301	If you read Article 16 of the draft law, this Article provides that all matters of procedure not covered by this Act shall be governed by the Tax Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I won't support the amendment. Look at the demagogies of those who explain that this article will nationalize assets. If I remember correctly, the average value of the property, the dwellings are 78 000 euros, and the average refund is 70 euros. This means that someone would not be able to pay 70 euros, and in this case it can be agreed that the 70 euros will be written in the land book as the part he owes. Where's nationalization here? Can you figure out how many years I shouldn't have to pay to get this 78,000? You know how to calculate. Every year, €70. That's why I say it's often called people to come here and protest to ride with tractors, but they don't know how much they're gonna pay. Therefore, the amendment to Article 15 is totally inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We're moving on to Article 17. An amendment to the coalition has been tabled. In the context of the parliamentary groups, who wants to discuss, who still has time available? If there is no wish to discuss, we are moving on to the next Article – Article 20, to which the two amendments, namely the SDS Group and the coalitions, are tabled. Anybody want to talk? I do not see a desire to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate on this Article. We continue with Article 22, which introduces two amendments, namely the SDS and SLS sent groups. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the 23rd Article, to which three amendments are tabled, namely the SDS, SLS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that you will say that the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members – it is true that I wanted to sign it myself first, but it is not possible for the MP to table an amendment on his own proposal. It's, I'd say, a non-systemic solution, an non-systemic amendment, but some kind of law, such an amendment. It is the congregation of Rogasovci or, rather, about 3,000 200 people, citizens of the Rogasovci Congregation. You probably know, if you don't, I'm helping you – it's a congregation in Goričkem, the western part, very close to the Austrian border. This municipality is the only municipality that has not received any compensation for the use of building land. I'm not going into details. I'm not going to history. The first mayor, who was there, simply didn't charge his citizens. The second did not highlight and continued this practice. None of them are from New Slovenia, otherwise the matter would have been settled by now. Why did they make that choice? That's what I asked different people. This was because, as explained in the explanatory memorandum, about 40% of the population has been evicted from the municipality in the last 50 years. Can you imagine? In 1963 this area was estimated to be about 5,000,350 inhabitants, and today it is estimated at about 3,000,200, as I said. In 50 years, about 500 homes were emptied. 500 houses are empty. If we add to this now, colleagues and colleagues, the income law, the new income law, which is likely to be confirmed by the government coalition at this meeting, and because about one third of the citizens employed in neighbouring Austria are from this area – what does this mean? This means that emigration to Austria will start as a beach. I'm not talking about the mayor here, but I'm talking about 3,000 200 people. Therefore, I propose and ask that we look through our fingers in some way and accept the amendment to Article 23 and, analogously, Article 24, and I will not advertise myself later in the debate on Article 24. I really ask you to consider this matter and to tell the citizens of Rogasovci in some way: yes, we also have you in mind and you are also citizens of this country. In the final phase and in the long run, these people will contribute even more to the state treasury. I am not saying that they are not contributing today – of course they are contributing. It was just a mistake, some strange solution in the past. Now what? Should we punish them? These are our people, including good taxpayers, and let us make, ladies and gentlemen, one exception to this law. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u306	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting forward 24th Article and 3 amendments, namely the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and the New Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the two amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Amendments will be decided on Thursday, 14 in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2013, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. But at the end of the day, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income. At its 3rd extraordinary meeting on 5 November 2013, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Income. Mr Miloš Pohole, who is not currently in the Chamber, may be given the floor to explain the request. That is why we are moving on to the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which considered the requirement as a mother labour. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u307	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 70th emergency meeting, on 8 June. 11. 2013 addressed the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 46th extraordinary session. Ten. 2013 The request of the State Council of 5 was forwarded to the Committee. 11. 2013, Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 7. 1. 2013 and the opinion of the Government of 7. 11. 2013 Meetings of the Committee were attended by the State Adviser and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which are reflected in the opinion. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the substantive reasons put forward by the State Council and given in the request for re-decision are not defined by its powers. In addition to the written opinion, the legislative and legal service did not have any additional comments. The Committee adopted, after a brief discussion by a majority of votes to 11, with 5 abstentions, that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act was appropriate. We suggest that the National Assembly also decides the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u308	Thank you, too. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u309	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, you are again deciding on a proposal for a new Law on Income, on which the Council of State voted the procrastination veto. The government rejects the State Council's arguments. In the written position you received, the government position is presented in more detail. I focus on the most important elements of this view. The main reason for voting the procrastination veto is the abolition of automaticity in the coordination of the income scale and the amount of relief. The government does not agree with the view that the proposed law eliminates the coordination of the income scale and the amounts. In fact, coordination is only changing from automatic to ad hoc coordination, which, taking into account economic policy objectives, can be defined by the law on the implementation of the budget for a given year and will be mandatory if annual inflation exceeds 3%. It is true that the 2014 and 2015 draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia does not provide for harmonisation. However, possible harmonisation in 2015 and beyond will be determined each year in the light of the circumstances and the situation in the country at that time. The Government does not agree that the proposed solution entails a significant additional burden on the income of natural persons, since, in general, the same burden on the same revenue as in 2013 will not be changed in nominal amounts, but will not be reduced as if automatic indexing were carried out. Assuming that the taxable person achieves the same nominal income in 2014 as in 2013, this means that his tax liability on income in the nominal amount will also be the same as in 2013. It is true, however, that in the case of indexation and at the same nominal income, its tax liability would be nominally slightly lower in 2014 than in 2013. Let's take a look at this on a case-by-case basis. In the case of an indemnity debtor applying general relief, this means that, in the case of automatic indexation, the obligation of the debtor receiving the minimum wage would be lower by EUR 15 per year than in the case of the application of this law and the obligation of the debtor with an average salary of approximately EUR 25 per year. If, in addition to general relief, the debtor also applies a relief for one dependent family member, the abolition of automatic indexation will not have an effect on the minimum wage, since the debtor does not have a tax liability. On average, however, the income would be nominally lower by 34 euros per year and 2.8 euros per month on the basis of the assumptions mentioned above. The removal of automatic indexation and its replacement by ad hoc indexation in the first year will therefore have no major financial implications for the individual debtor. In the coming years, however, these effects will be cumulative and will have a more significant impact in inflation situations from year to year. This can be mitigated by ad hoc indexing, which will be decided by the law on the implementation of the budget. The Government also rejects the argument that the change in automatic indexation to ad hoc long-term indexation means the elimination of progressive taxation of the income of natural persons and the introduction of principals, as the rates by tax grade remain unchanged, which means that the progressiveity of tax rates remains unchanged. However, the second reason for voting the procrastination veto is the abolition of tax relief for cross-border labour migrants. In this regard, the Government notes that the tax treatment of the income of residents working abroad as migrant workers is equivalent to that of those working in Slovenia, in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. The amendment of the law will for the first time have an impact in this segment on the incomes to be achieved by migrant workers in 2014. For all these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to reaffirm the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act as an appropriate law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u310	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. Honourable Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the postponement of the Council of State to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, we are now re-declaring this law. Let me begin by saying that the Members of the parliamentary group will oppose this law, just as we have opposed it all the time it has been adopted. The solutions brought about by these amendments and additions to this Act further increase tax obligations. In New Slovenia, we always oppose the new tax burden of taxpayers. The abolition of the harmonisation of income relief and net tax base amounts in the income scale by increasing the price of living needs will increase the tax liability practically to all income-bearing undertakings, including those with a minimum wage. The greatest burden of such a change will be borne by taxpayers who receive income of twice the average wage. This will increase the tax burden by around €330 per year. We do not support such a measure in New Slovenia, as it will only further accelerate the brain drain that has recently gained alarming dimensions in Slovenia. In fact, most educated people, especially younger ones, receive wages up to twice the average wage in Slovenia. Due to the increase in tax burdens, net wages will be further reduced and the employment of the best and most promising professionals in Slovenia will become even less interesting than before. In terms of economic competitiveness, the decline in net wages will further reduce the purchasing power of the population, thus destroying the projected increase in fiscal revenues from the increased value added tax. In Nova Slovenija, we also oppose the abolition of special benefits for the incomes of cross-border labour migrants. The main reason for the regulation of a specific tax relief for cross-border migrant workers so far is in a completely different regime of income in our country compared to most Western European countries. These have the lowest income either taxed or taxed at a significantly lower tax rate than in Slovenia. As a result, cross-border labour migrants in Slovenia, where income-paying commitments are also due, should pay high-priced income. The complete abolition of the special allowance for the income of cross-border labour migrants will, in the opinion of New Slovenia, result in the regulation of the permanent residence of most of these cross-border labour migrants in the countries where they are earning income. As a result, applications for social security benefits will increase in Slovenia. The final objective of increasing public financial revenues by this measure will not be achieved. The right solution for regulating the taxation of cross-border labour migrants would be to conclude new bilateral contracts, in particular with the neighbouring countries of Italy and Austria, and to regulate fairly the tax situation of cross-border labour migrants in these contracts. It is also important to take into account the fact that in most cases labour migration occurred for objective reasons without their fault. In Slovenia, employees lost their jobs or were unemployed because of many bankruptcys. Employment in which of the neighbouring countries has taken care of their own social security and the social security of the family. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the way to resolve tax status for cross-border labour migrants, as proposed in the proposed amendments and additions to the Income Act, is completely inadequate. We will not support or oppose the new Law on Income Members of the New Slovenia Group in re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u312	Thank you. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u313	Your Honor! At the beginning of the examination of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia had some concerns about the appropriateness of the solutions proposed. Here I am referring to the emoluments and the amount of the untaxed part of the pension for workers employed for a certain period of time. The fact that labour market reform has not fully recovered – let me remind you that 70% of young people have fixed-term contracts – is a fact that cannot be overlooked. The contents of the most problematic are certainly the provisions of the novel, which abolish the automatic harmonisation of tax incentives and the net tax base on the income scale. If I go back a little bit to the past. It is not considered that the abolition of automatic coordination or the suspension of facilitations in general occurs for the first time. This is not entirely true, but not entirely for cities, since we are likely to recall that in 2006 the introduction of an informational calculation of income abolished the so-called non-standard reliefs. These, if you remember, were then 3% and included a wide range of various facilities, from, for example, facilitating the purchase of glasses, payment of credit, books, textbooks, and could also be listed. Something similar happened in 2012. The Public Finance Balance Act has temporarily suspended the coordination of pensions and other benefits and benefits, the coordination of subsistence allowances, the coordination of transfers to individuals and households, and together it has tied to 2.5% of economic growth. I stress, 2.5% economic growth. No one, nor the government, then had no influence and no chance of making this a change, as is now evident to the coalition. The abolition of automatic harmonisation of tax incentives and the net tax base on the income base assessment scale pursues the objectives of public financial consolidation as set out in the Stability Programme. The new one is a safeguard, which the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act then contains and is then adopted, which provides that the coordination of tax reliefs and net tax bases is done automatically, as soon as the increase in the cost of living reaches or exceeds 3% on an annual basis. The draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 may also provide for the Minister of Finance to determine the coefficient by which tax relief and net tax base are coordinated. I would like to make a few more words to regulate the status of cross-border migrants. There are two very serious facts. First of all, it is a constitutional decision that requires us to abolish the unconstitutional situation. And before that, we were required to do so by the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, which has judged cross-border migrants through the category of global income. While all other thoughts are possible, they are legitimate, but they cannot support the thesis that speaks in a different direction. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u314	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u315	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not support and will not support the amendment of the Income Act, which abolishes the harmonisation of both the income scale, the amount of income as well as the tax exemptions or exemptions made by the individual taxpayer. This inflation solution means that taxpayers will have less real income from year to year. In the first year, a lower income for a percentage of the increase in living costs or inflation, which we know to be approximately once more in the last year than the average in the European Union, is likely also due to the rise in value added tax that took place in July of this year. Moreover, over the long term, non-coordination of the income scale and tax incentives is an ever-increasing loss of real income. Indeed, this income, which is lost in the first year, will never again constitute a basis for coordination in the following year. In other words, long term means that people can lose up to 10, 20, 30% of their real income, given that moderate inflation is perfectly normal in Slovenia. This is a hidden tax to be made, I will say, in some simple way, simply that it does not align all the items in the income forecast with the cost of living. The solution to co-ordination is also utopian when we have economic growth of 3%, 2.5% and so on in today's situation when we have a decline in economic growth. This government or any other government will have to take a number of measures to achieve economic growth, especially with a number of strangers to whom we are witnessing today and where we are also adopting the 2014 and 2015 budgets. They hold the numbers that have been said here and also written in the explanation of this law. With the average wage and the fact that someone has the benefits, we estimate that around €330 will pay more taxes or lose that tax on the reality of the income itself. Whatever we take, people will have less money to buy, so they can survive. Such a way of saving Slovenia from the crisis is wrong, and it is also wrong to indolence with people who work in Austria and Italy and who have problems with double taxation, including taxation with Slovenian income. In view of the fact that this problem with Austria started to be resolved in 2006, I think that then somehow this cooperation or negotiation with Austria would have been discontinued, so that the Ministry of Finance could make a greater effort to ensure that the provision on the fact that Austria's revenues obtained in Austria or Italy are not a source of income in Slovenia is adopted and that this problem would be resolved bilaterally. Similarly, Austrians have been saved for their citizens who work in border areas in Slovenia. For these reasons, we certainly oppose this amendment to the Income Act. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party – even more so, we will firmly oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u316	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u317	Your Honor! Today, the European Commission has presented a report, including on Slovenia and its action to address excessive imbalances, and in doing so, it has announced that it estimates that Slovenia has accelerated reforms in recent months, which are important to address imbalances and that it is making key progress in the banking sector. The Commission is assessing this on the basis of an ambitious budget plan and reform plan in its present report, which also points out that it closely monitors the implementation of the planned reforms and recommendations received by Slovenia. Respected and respected, even under the Income Act, it can be said that this law is part of a series of measures that we are taking to achieve gradual fiscal consolidation. Even though we cannot be fully satisfied with any of the measures, it is important for the country to understand at these critical moments that we are at an important turning point and that we need to select those measures that will ensure, to the greatest extent possible, that Slovenia is given access to funding resources and, on the other hand, that we are pursuing the objectives contained in our budgetary documents, which we have discussed extensively this week. What we would like is therefore a little more understanding that the Government is making its efforts to overcome the current situation. In this regard, the opposition, the Council of State or other stakeholders, and not least the public and civil society, cannot be denied the right to define and clearly present its opinion on the measures. Therefore, in this context, we respect the established vetoes of the State Council. However, in assessing the measures contained in the Income Act, we have already expressed some concerns at the stage of consideration of the solutions. We cannot talk about indolence to cross-border immigrants, because we were the leading political force in the government, which imposed a special tax relief for migrants. We only decided to abolish this special relief when the Constitutional Court so decided. Let me remind you that the previous government in the Public Finance Balance Act has provided for this measure without being enforced by the Constitutional Court. It is true, however, that at that time the coalition government withdrew from that intention because of pressure from two coalition parties. In this context, we respect their position and agree that it is necessary to examine all the methods by which, through the aforementioned bilateral agreement, their situation could be regulated differently, but we are aware that, if it proves reasonable, it is a long-term procedure and that the National Assembly should not delay the decisions ordered by the Constitutional Court. With regard to the second set of amendments to this law, which relates to the abolition of the automatic indexation of the income scale and income relief, we are aware that there will be no such coordination in 2014 and that the Social Democrats, together with the coalition partners, have already put in place a solution in the legislative process when such coordination becomes mandatory once inflation reaches a level of 3% – when the price of living needs in our country increases at a noticeable level. In this context, the Social Democrats will also, at this stage of the procedure, back up the proposal of the Income Act, on the part of the Council of State presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u318	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u319	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Civil Gazette, we have carefully read the requirement that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. We have found that there was no new fact, no new view, no new argument, no new information or information that would not have been taken into account in the basic decision on the law. For this reason, the position of the Civil Code does not change to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u320	Thank you, too. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u321	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We have already stated very clearly and unequivocally in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we do not support government tax experiments. Changes and additions to the Income Act are also among those government measures that are worthy of our criticism. We must be working in vain in the Slovenian People's Party to understand at least the message that the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia has sent to you with a vote, but you will not be able to see that your variations on the subject of the endless tax limitation of your people, thereby filling your budget, exceed all the limits of good taste. As we have said at the time of the adoption of this law in the National Assembly last month, we are repeating so much more loudly today: stop the horses while it is still time. Do not raise taxes, lower consumption. You have well written down in the stability programme: two-thirds of the measures on the expenditure side, one-third on higher revenues. There are no measures on the expenditure side. This is now that we have the budget rebalancing on the tables, clear already. Even vice versa, you have increased the expenditure of the state budget by 10%. Dear Government, you really don't know or you don't want to find a reservation with yourself, by reducing the cost of public spending. But no, you prefer to lower net wages to your citizens, especially those who have children. They have more children, they'll be deprived. This novel, in its own words on the long term, removes relief for children and for people with disabilities, which is an original but absolutely no social solution. With this novel you will also collect part of your earnings to migrant workers, to those who are good and working people who have not received a job at home and have sought a job across borders, especially in neighbouring Austria. Instead of standing in line with the Employment Service and applying for unemployment benefits, they sought work abroad. Now they will be punished by paying two incomes, Austria and Slovenia. It is true that a constitutional decision had to regulate this area, but it could also be regulated in a way that was at least a little more fair, and you have chosen, without question, a way to fill the budget as much as possible, regardless of the cost of far-reaching consequences. Maybe it's even your new business model, sending people to work abroad. Should our people from now on look for jobs across borders, neighbors, and at home pay additional taxes on wages, real estate, and VAT on consumption and so on, without end and place? Such government policies, which in all possible ways empty their people's wallets, simply do not deserve a decent and working Slovenian nation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will therefore not support this utopian concept, which would reduce net wages by such unjust measures, even minimum wages for its people. It does not even occur to us that we should vote for such a wrong story as the new Income Law, yet another measure that opens up more problems than it solves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u322	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. The National Councils seem to be justifying their existence, and they have returned to us the new Law on Income, which we adopted at the end of October. As a reason for their decision, they cited, in summary, the abolition of a specific tax relief for cross-border workers, the abolition of automatic coordination of certain facilitations and the abolition of automatic coordination of net annual tax bases. With regard to the abolition of the specific tax relief to cross-border labour migrants, the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is clear. We do not support specific tax privileges if they are not really justified. Additional relief to migrants, according to our assessment, is not justified, not only in these unstable times, but also in general. It is necessary to arrange these matters in a different way. With regard to the abolition of coordination of incentives and net tax bases, we have already expressed our concerns in our views and debates, and the arguments of the proponents of maintaining this institution are valid. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have assessed that this is not an intervention of minor importance. In fact, abolishing coordination has an impact on everyone's social situation. We anticipate that there is a legitimate fear that this measure will significantly affect the welfare of a small person. Despite these concerns, our Group's principled position follows the support of the law and we expect the Government to monitor the effects of the relevant income legislation and to take appropriate action in the event of an excessive interference with the social situation of individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u324	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Marriage will be decided again on Thursday, 14. 11. 2013, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. The State Council is at the third extraordinary session of 5. 11. 2013 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Mr Jože Slivšek, who is in the Chamber, could be given the floor to explain the request, and I welcome him and give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u325	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! The State Council is at its third extraordinary session of 5. 11. Voted Veto on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act [[ZBan-1L]] . In doing so, the Councillors and Councillors of the State wanted the honourable Members and honourable Members to reconsider, before deciding whether the Banking Act was dealt with, in particular, with article 261.a, which deals with the termination or conversion of qualified obligations — these are subordinated bonds and hybrid bonds — up to 261.e. which prohibits the creditor from claiming from the bank the damages he will suffer in the implementation of Article 261.a, according to your assessment in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia refers in the draft law to the fact that an infringement of the property rights of qualified bond holders is permissible because Article 67 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia allowed such interference. By establishing the way in which property is acquired and consumed, the law provides for its economic, social and environmental function. We believe that the proposed amendment to the law, contrary to Article 67 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, interferes with the ownership right of holders, since it does not address the way in which they acquire and consume their property, but allows the bank to cease its obligation to creditors on the basis of qualified obligations or conversion or conversion into ordinary shares. Such a measure is, by its content, actually a seizure or, if I simplify, a nationalisation of the property of the holders, which the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not know and does not allow. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in Article 69, deals with and allows the decommissioning of property for public benefit, but only against compensation in kind or against compensation under the conditions laid down by the law. We know this from the construction of the highway cross, where such cases have occurred many times. Until decommissioning, but not until confiscation – this is a major difference. It's a proportionality test. The applicant considers that the provisions of the novel will cease the proportionality test. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia shall take into account the so-called strict proportionality test when assessing the admissibility of interventions into law, the property rights of individuals or legal persons. Intervention with the law shall be permitted under the conditions that it is necessary where the objective cannot be achieved without minor interference, that it is appropriate to achieve the objective pursued, that the gravity of the consequences of interference with the human rights affected is proportionate to the value of the objective pursued or to the benefits resulting from the intervention. We believe that the amendment to the law at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia will not undergo a rigorous proportionality test, especially because it is a constitutionally unacceptable intervention in property law, and the gravity of the consequences of interference with the ownership right of the holder due to confiscation is completely disproportionate. This is a measure which violates the fundamental principles that Slovenia is a rule of law. Retroactivity. The applicant submits that the proposal does not constitute a violation of Article 155 of the Constitution because it considers it to be an infringement of the so-called retroactivity which has an effect on the future, as it has already entered into an already established but not yet concluded legal relationship. Slovenia is a legal country in which the right to private property is guaranteed and it is permissible to regulate by law only the way in which property is acquired and consumed, not the cessation or confiscation of property. As a result of public benefit, property rights in real estate may be divested, seized or restricted, but against compensation in kind or against compensation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow the confiscation of property obtained in a lawful manner. In Slovenia, laws and other regulations and general acts cannot have an effect on the reverse, except in exceptional cases where this requires public benefit and if this does not affect the rights acquired. All of this is violated in the amendment of the law, which is therefore in direct contravention of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u326	Mr Slivšek, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I ask you to conclude the debate because time has run out. Thanks for understanding. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u327	Thank you again very much for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 70th emergency meeting, on 9. 11. In 2013 he also addressed the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 18th session. Ten. 2013 The request of the State Council of 5 was forwarded to the Committee. 11. 2013, Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 6. 11. 2013 and the opinion of the Government of 7. 11. 2013 In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly notes that those arguments relate mainly to issues related to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the legal regime. As such justifications go beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service pursuant to Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service shall not be defined by the latter. However, with regard to the question raised on the compatibility of the law with the Constitution, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that the State Council’s reasoning includes arguments concerning interference with the legal position of holders of subordinated debt instruments, to which the Legislative and Legal Service has, in the context of its written opinion of 16. Ten. However, in the process of amending the law, the arguments on the proportionality of the proposed measure with the benefit of the intervention prevailed. At the meeting of the Committee, he gave his reasons for being a veto representative of the State Council. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented to the Committee, in response to the allegations and observations made, the main points of opposition to arguments and to a government opinion which, in its conclusions, proposes to adopt the Banking Act at the time of its re-decision on the amendments and additions to the Banking Act. The members of the Committee on the request of the Council of State for Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act did not discuss, and eventually decided by 11 votes in favour and 3 against that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act was appropriate. We suggest that the National Assembly reconfirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u328	Thank you, too. In order to explain my opinion, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u329	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! The Banking Act proposal establishes a legal framework to share the burden of bank resolution in difficulties between the State on the one hand and the creditors of the bank on the other. The Council of State requires re-decision on the amendment, because it doubts precisely this main solution of the law, this is the appropriateness of the way in which burden-sharing is shared. More specifically, the State Council doubts the appropriateness of the write-off measure since, if this measure is imposed, the claims of subordinate creditors to the bank can also be waived. In its request for re-decision, the State Council states that the write-off measure of the qualifying claims of the subordinate creditors of the bank is unconstitutional because it allegedly interferes with property rights. In accordance with the practice of the Constitutional Court, an intervention in constitutionally protected rights is permitted if the proportionality test ceases. In the opinion of the Government, the proposal for a law will cease this test as the law requires that the holder of the written financial instrument be paid in the same way as it would have been if a bankruptcy had taken place over the bank. The holder of the written-off financial instrument will be paid as much as it would have been if the State of the bank did not rescue. However, the purpose of bank resolution is to make subordinate creditors more available to the bank than in the event of bankruptcy. The request for re-decision of the Council of State states that the amendment to the law is adopted because Brussels so requires. The law is not adopted because it would require Brussels, the law is adopted that the measures to be implemented in accordance with the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, in accordance with the European Union rules on admissible state aid for financial institutions. One of the European Union's acts, which lays down the rules on granting State aid, is the Commission's Communication on the application of State aid rules to support measures in favour of banks in the context of the financial crisis from 1 August 2013. This Communication states that State aid must not be granted until the equity, hybrid capital and subordinated debt instruments have fully contributed to offset potential losses. In its request for veto, the Council of State states that that act constitutes only a recommendation. We note that the Commission's communication has been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, and its non-compliance with it constitutes a violation of the rules on admissible State aid. Indeed, this is not an act that the Republic of Slovenia should transpose into national law, but we must take it into account if we want the measures to be admissible. Once again, the adoption of the amendment of the law is necessary to ensure that the measures to be implemented in accordance with the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks comply with the European Union rules on State aid. To avoid any violations of the acquis of the European Union, I propose that the National Assembly reaffirm the proposal of the Banking Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u330	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first will be Mr Alojzij Potočnik, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In Positive Slovenia, we believe that the Government and Banka Slovenije have understood the basic message of banking reform, for which Slovenia receives encouraging signals from the European Commission. This is not something of today's conscience for Slovenia, not for the coalition, the assembly has already warned Mr Frangež at the previous point. The Commission's communication is undoubtedly an important criterion for the admissibility of State aid and the use of public funds in solving problems. It determines the appropriate burden of providing the bank's capital between the State on the one hand and the shareholders on the other hand and the creditors of the bank on the other. In other words, greater responsibility should also be assumed by the owners of banks and holders of subordinated securities, both hybrids and bonds. Even so, the stinging tax money should be diverted within a reasonable short period of time and used where it belongs — for the hardships and needs of people, not in the game of moral gambling. The budget, I mentioned it the last time. It's not an ATM. I'd like to remind you of two more for a while. First, last year, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks provides for measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian banking system, which will not be implemented without the adoption of a law that we are re-declaring today. Secondly, the competent institutions must exercise three types of responsibilities. Firstly, the liability of borrowers who, at the strange role of banks in tolerating the non-payment of loans, sometimes even unintentionally failed to repay them. Secondly, the responsibility of the management and supervisory boards of banks. Thirdly, the regulator’s responsibility – Banks of Slovenia. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, but without the tolerance of the required enforcement of responsibilities, both institutional and personal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u332	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we closely monitor the developments in the banking field and the solutions proposed by both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia. In doing so, we look with great concern at the way in which the banking crisis is resolved in Slovenia, especially when we mention the rescue of Probank and Factor Bank, two private banks to which the Republic of Slovenia, the government of Alenka Bratušek, provides a guarantee of EUR 1 billion and 430 million of tax money. In this context, we also assess the proposal for the Banking Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed an amendment concerning bank secrecy, and we have also attached support to the Banking Act to the adoption or rejection of this amendment. Given that the coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have rejected an amendment that would increase the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia, which would increase the responsibility of the supervisory councils, the banks' administrations, we cannot support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that when the Government gives the tax money for the rehabilitation of banks, together with Banka Slovenije, it should clearly indicate and point to responsible people who have made a decisive contribution in the last 20 years to the fact that banks are in the position they are in. Given that the amendment on banking secrecy has been rejected, we cannot support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u334	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u335	Respected and respected! To begin with, in recent days, I have spoken on the phone with many citizens and citizens who are also calling and expressing their outrage at the solutions contained in the Banking Act. Since the owners of subordinated and hybrid instruments issued by certain Slovenian banks will be able to lose part of their assets invested in such instruments after the resolution of this law. We understand their plight, we understand that they are indignant, and we also understand that it is difficult for them to accept the arguments that we are presenting in support of the confirmation of the Banking Act in today's session. Slovenia must solve the problem it has in the banking system. If we use public funds for this problem, and this problem cannot be solved without the involvement of public funds, either for the transfer of bad claims, recapitalisation of banks or for specific measures such as controlled liquidation in two smaller Slovenian banks, we are forced to respect strict European State aid rules. The European Union is vigilant and vigilant in its monitoring so that no private benefit can be achieved through public funds. That is why we stand for the measures we have taken in the Banking Act, and we predict that we will also confirm the Banking Act now that it faces the veto of the State Council. The resolution implemented by the Banking Act is fully in line with the Communication from the European Commission, which states that the first responsibility for the problems of banks must be taken over by its shareholders, then by holders of subordinated and hybrid instruments, including those with combined capital, equity and debt functions of the financial instrument. To the best of our ability to protect those who hold deposits in Slovenian banks so that the burden on taxpayers and taxpayers in our country is ultimately as low as possible. How could we defend solutions that were different from that? In this case, wouldn't the Slovenian public, the taxpayers, point the finger at this assembly and ask: why are you saving private owners of such instruments with our money? We are aware that there are also some natural persons within the scope of the holders of such instruments, and we are aware that they will suffer major or minor financial losses. In terms of correctness and transparency, however, in the use of public funds for the purpose of bank resolution, the model chosen by the European Bank is comparable, adjusted to tax money and, to the greatest extent possible, protects the excessive use of public funds in order to solve the banking spasm problem. As we say today, the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the approval of the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u336	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u337	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! If we've had problems in the banking system for a long time, there's no secret. We are no exception to this in the world, but we are an exception to the speed with which we solve this problem. Instead of doing it quickly and effectively, we needed one government first to delay the problem, then another to prepare the concept of rescue and start with legal changes, and now it's on the third to end it somehow. This was the position of the Civil Code at the time of the adoption of this law, and this is the position of the Civil Gazette today. The main change in this amendment of the law is undoubtedly a conversion of subordinated liabilities to the capital of the bank under certain conditions and by the decision of the Bank of Slovenia. We are aware of the difficulties that many investors will face. We listened attentively to their stories, which are often sadly sad. The subordinated bonds are generally intended for well-educated investors because they are more risky than ordinary bonds or deposits. However, due to the promised higher returns, a number of uneducated investors have also decided on it. Whether or not he was properly aware of the risk depends on the case. Therefore, it is appropriate that such cases of possible misleading of investors are dealt with individually, either in the case of the person who advised him or sold these bonds to him or through a court of law. However, not all investors came to these papers at the bank window. Many bought such securities on the secondary market, on the stock market, when, in the face of problems, banks around the world have already started to sell them. In addition to the nominal return promised, such investors relied on additional profits due to a lower price than the nominal one that these papers had reached on the stock exchange. It would not be right that the loss of these investors, who, unlike some who were actually misled, were aware of the risks, would be borne by taxpayers, including those who could only dream of such benefits, since the only interest they knew is the interest on the negative situation in the current account, to which they somehow link the month to the month. The Council of State has not served us with any new views or new facts, so we will do the same in the Civil Gazette as we do in the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u338	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u339	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As we have already told you in the debate on this law, this is probably the first of the laws that we Members have received on our bench following a certain informal European Union dictatorship. This year, this year, it began to develop new guidelines for the rehabilitation of banks. Slovenia shall accept it as soon as possible and shall be based on the establishment of the order of the persons involved in the rehabilitation of individual banks in order to minimise the burden on taxpayers. From the point of view of the European Union, the matter is perfectly logical. First of all, there are bank shareholders who were private investors at least until the start of the financial crisis. If the bank is in trouble, they lose their deposit. It's a little special with us because it owns the biggest banks in the country. In the New Bank of Credit Maribor, the loss of the entire deposit of shareholders occurred virtually before this law, and the price for the failure of this bank has already been paid by these investors. Let us see how valuable the shares of the New Credit Bank of Maribor are in 2007 when the country sold them to its citizens. The second is the holding of subordinated bonds and other subordinated instruments in banks. In this area, too, we Slovenians are special. The owners of these instruments abroad are mostly specialised funds and other highly trained institutional investors. With us, these securities were sold practically in bank boxes. Moreover, certain financial institutions have even indirectly encouraged the Bank of Slovenia to invest in subordinated debt and thereby strengthen capital adequacy in the banking system. After this proposal, the buyers of these instruments will lose everything without exception and without excuse for misleading. This law is such a very expensive school for many investors in the Slovenian capital market. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are not sure whether this law really needs to be adopted in such a pit. Many savers and individuals who did not know and could not even know what risk they were exposed to or were not properly informed will be affected and harmed. These doubts were also expressed by many recognized bankers and economists — certainly not by those who sunk the banks. It would be particularly good to wait for stress tests. We also know that the controlled liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank is being conducted without this law. We accept certain marriage solutions before we know what methodology tests are carried out and what we are going to do in the first place. However, the Slovenian People's Party would be pleased to support the amendment of the law if, in addition to all these solutions, it also contained an article that would eliminate tax secrecy in those cases where, due to catastrophic business results, public funds were to be used for their recovery – only in cases where taxpayers' money was involved. Current legislation makes it impossible for supervisory institutions and investigative authorities to disclose to the public, which, by the way, will pay for all this rehabilitation, those responsible for the granting of unsecured loans to disclose networks and links between administrations, supervisory councils, bank owners and even committees. These are things that we know have happened, and if anyone thinks that this voiceless nation will quietly swallow up the billions of euros worth repairing the banking system, without any of those who have cooked all of this answering, they are seriously mistaken. These links within these banks should be publicly disclosed because they have led to the main holes in the banking system, not the global crisis. The global crisis has only exposed these irregularities. The coalition did not want this addition in this law when it was still under consideration, and today we cannot fix it, we can only reject it and complete it with this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u340	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u341	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have already defined ourselves before the amendment of the Banking Act at the previous meeting and we remain in the position that the law is appropriate. On the table, we have a request from the Council of State for re-decision on this law. The type of evidence set out in the request is argued by the Council of State, but we must be aware that this domestic lack of insolvency, banking legislation, in accordance with the European directives, needs to be supplemented by such solutions in order to ensure greater efficiency and stability of the banking system as a whole. We are aware that at least two very difficult years are ahead of us, even in the economic field, because they will somehow dictate the pace of bank rehabilitation, whether it will be only on our own shoulders or with the support of the European Union. It is estimated that the nearing results of the burden tests and the review of bank assets could show a low share of claims between 20 % and 25 % of the bank's balance sheet total. Expressed in euros, this would mean between EUR 9 and EUR 11.2 billion of poor claims. According to the Ministry of Finance, the contribution of bondholders amounts to between EUR 300 and EUR 500 million, while the current total value of all high-issued bonds, by domestic commercial banks, risked hybrid and subordinated bonds amounts to EUR 465 million, and business banks are leased for 342 million subordinated loans. It is true that the holders of subordinated bonds have no impact on the operation of banks, but there is no awareness of creditors in the event of bankruptcy of the bank. Taking into account also the bankruptcy of the bank, the payment of all the liabilities of the bank shall be made in a certain order. By purchasing subordinated financial instruments, both holders and buyers take the risk associated with management, business and, last but not least, ownership of the bank. In addition, it is recalled that legal proceedings on the liability and disclosure of all those responsible for the banking situation in the country should finally be initiated. Ladies and gentlemen, in our Group of Members, we have already defined ourselves to this Act and we reiterate to you that our position remains the same. We estimate that the State Council's arguments are misleading, which further reflects the Government's opinion. In the Member State of DeSUS, we believe that by re-confirming this law in good faith we are contributing to the re-establishment of the relatively normal functioning of the banking business model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u342	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Your Honor! For today's draft amendments and the amendment of the Banking Act, we can say that these are one of the most important rules that will influence not only the current owners of banks and the holders of subordinate financial instruments, but through the public debt that will be created on this basis, will affect the life of the current and more future generations. Such a high importance of this law has also been assessed by the Council of State, and in this case, in our opinion, he has made a reasoned request for a re-voting on it. Members of the New Slovenia Group have opposed the amendments and additions to the Banking Act to the voting so far, and we will also oppose them in re-voting. What is the essence of this law? The Novela Banking Act provides a legal basis for the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks at the starting point for the burden of the resolution of the banking system to be distributed among the state, owners of banks and holders of subordinate financial instruments. Such a way of rehabilitating banks is considered to be in line with the Commission Communication on the application of State aid rules to support measures in favour of banks in the context of the financial crisis from 1 August 2013. Such a way of rehabilitating banks will, as proposed today, apply to all banks, regardless of ownership and whether they are systemic or smaller banks. We do not support such a principle of the resolution of the banking system in New Slovenia. In particular, we believe that the owners of subordinated financial instruments should not bear the burden of bank recovery to a greater extent than the owners of deposits above the value of EUR 100,000, i.e. the amount to which the deposit guarantee is lodged by the Republic of Slovenia. Neither one of them had the right to manage and decide in banks. We advocate that the burden of rehabilitation of banks must be borne to the greatest extent by those who have caused such a situation in the banking system — members of administrations and supervisory councils. All of these are responsible for their bad decisions with their property. This responsibility already exists under the current rules. In particular, Articles 60 and 66 of the Banking Act, which are not implemented. In Novi Slovenija we oppose the fact that all banks, regardless of public interest, are being rehabilitated by state aid, both systemic and small banks. In its opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, the European Central Bank pointed out that the same principle cannot be implemented. In the specific comments of the opinion referred to in point 3/2, I quote: "If the resolution authority finds that the public interest is not at risk, the institution should stop following the normal insolvency proceedings applicable to such institutions under national law, which means that the rehabilitation or termination of smaller banks should not be carried out with national money." According to Nova Slovenije, the decision of Banka Slovenije on the controlled liquidation of two smaller private banks, Factor Bank and Probanke was contrary to our national legislation and also contrary to European regulations. Both banks were not only insolvent but also insolvent, which was clear when the decision on the execution of the controlled liquidation of both banks was taken. Finally, I have something to say about bank secrecy. Behind it, all too often there are irregulars hiding, not to say illegal decisions by members of administrations and supervisory councils. Even so far as the banking secrecy commitment went so far as to prevent the law enforcement authorities from reporting the suspicions of the offences found at the time of the audits. Bank secrecy has never been and must not be intended to cover up criminal acts. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the law even in the re-voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u344	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Marriage will be decided again on Thursday, 14. 11. 2013, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for an energy law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I will give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Bojan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The new energy law EZ-1 is a system law that regulates energy and energy use in the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. The law transposes the provisions of the European directives governing the energy market and the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources into the Slovenian legal order. In recent years, most of these Directives have been updated or re-adopted. These changes have not yet been fully transposed by the energy law currently in force in Slovenia. In addition, the law in force, which was passed in 1999, long before Slovenia entered the European Union, was obsolete and survived in its entirety. So far, it has been amended five times, making it opaque and impractical for use, as most articles have been amended or supplemented. In view of the above, the logical decision is to prepare and adopt a completely new energy law, not to amend existing or still valid. The new EZ-1 energy law transposes 10 European directives into Slovenian legislation and sets out the necessary elements for the implementation of all applicable European Union regulations in this field. However, EC-1 regulates more than simply transposition of directives. The government and the Ministry of the Interior are systematically regulating three key energy pillars with the proposal for a new energy law: competitiveness, reliability and low-carbonity, or sustainability. As such, the law can only partially regulate energy policy in terms of its nature, so the EZ-1 provides a legal basis and sets out the substantive framework for the adoption of national strategic documents, which will later set long-term guidelines for future use and supply of energy. EZ-1 establishes a new structure of strategic documents. The basic development document will be the Energy Concept of Slovenia, which will set the objectives of reliable, sustainable and competitive energy supply for the next 20 years, and for the next 40 years. On the basis of this, the National Energy Development Plan will be prepared, which is the indicative plan for major investments in energy infrastructure. The aim of the law is also to redefine the common rules of the internal market in electricity and natural gas, in accordance with European legislation. The law will lay down rules for the functioning of system operators and the internal market in electricity and natural gas, thereby strengthening competition and consumer rights while increasing security of supply. Another important area governed by the new law is the production and use of energy from renewable energy sources. In order to ensure a long-term sustainable electricity support scheme from renewable sources, the new law gives the government greater powers to decide which technologies will be promoted and to what extent. In doing so, we are committed to meeting the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of renewable energy, as set out in the Directive on the Promotion of Renewable Energy Sources. On the other hand, we aim to minimise the burden on consumers by energy and other additional costs. The new law also brings new developments in energy efficiency. Most of the innovation is in the area of the building sector, where there are very large potentials for reducing energy consumption and energy costs. In particular, the public sector is established, as energy costs are burdened by the budget of the state and local communities. The new law also regulates an area that has not yet been regulated – heat distribution. The basic objective of regulating this area is to ensure safe and secure heat supply from closed networks. The natural monopoly of distributors is taken into account, and the law provides for the protection of customers, both in terms of supply and in terms of pricing and contractual obligations. The implementation of the distribution of heat is within the domain of the local community. In principle, it is carried out as a selective public service, and under legal conditions the distribution of heat can also be carried out as a market activity. In addition to regulatory regulation, market surveillance and regulation are also necessary for the efficient functioning of the energy market. These tasks are carried out by an independent energy market regulator, the Energy Agency. The new law lays down in detail the way it operates and its tasks. The new law also regulates the field of energy infrastructure. In order to further develop the energy sector, the provisions are essential to simplify and accelerate the deployment of energy [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] without unnecessary costs to burden at the end of the Slovenian consumer. [[...]] A well-functioning energy market will provide competitive energy prices, according to the new law's proposal, which will have a positive impact both on Slovenian households in the form of cost reductions and on the economy that will be burdened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u346	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u347	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The energy law is too extensive, too opaque, and it will be very difficult to implement. It has 500 pages with a total of 556 articles. In some ways, the law had to arise, as it has been amended and supplemented five times since 1999. The Energy Act is a system law that primarily regulates compliance with European Union rules or transposes directives and the implementation of European Union regulations in the energy field. The law is also legally remodeled, and this moment is able to discern what is in it or what is good in it and what is not. More questions are being asked. Is it good to protect big operators? Is it good to give in completely to the free market? Is the transformation of the Public Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Energy Agency the right path? There is no answer why this agency is no longer public. Then we can consider that this agency can also be of other status forms. It can also be an economic society. Or how to protect a household customer. In short, there's a lot of questions. This law is largely similar to the law that was already under public scrutiny in 2011, and then the Borut Pahor government did not complete its work as far as this law is concerned. The preparation of this law did not take into account energy operators or those who will also implement this law on an operational basis. As a result, this law cannot be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party at this time. Further support will depend on our comments. We will prepare a package of corrections and complete it, as we are committed to making energy law a good law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u348	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! First, let me say that a great deal of work has been done and that there has been an extremely ambitious and also perhaps professionally well-established approach to making a comprehensive law in the field of energy, which has the character of a code and also has the ambition to fully regulate everything that is going on in this area. Despite the scale, I think it's a good basis on which we can manage energy in our country. We have, as has been said, the energy concept and the Mining Act, which in some ways represents the whole of what we are going to talk about today. Social Democrats believe that the law is suitable for further consideration, but we have another question and some opinion. It seems extremely good to me that we have decided to present our opinions publicly, because we will be listening to all those who are already sending individual opinions and have individual comments to individual chapters, solutions and everything that this law regulates together, so it seems to me that the Government and we should listen carefully to what all those who say they are in this area will present on Friday, and that we would then know how to balance and make a law that will be so that we can adopt it and say that we have solved a lot of problems in the field of energy. I think it will be extremely difficult to do so that we do not change this law, because I agree with Mr Žnidar, that it is very extensive and therefore the matter is very comprehensive and extensive. At first, I would like to say something about the points that we still need answers about. First of all, it's an energy card, and we should talk about what it should be, what it should be, what it should be, how it should be, how it should be. I think it is necessary for the energy card to determine or define this relationship with regard to the energy card, because it is methodology, efficiency, including alternatives, resources at the buildings themselves, and ultimately transparency and all that appears within the buildings. Our next position concerns Article 78, or the area of so-called concession fees, where the organisation of the Court in several agencies or organisations, according to the networks on which this is also taking place, is in some way changing. We will have to agree on this and in some way agree whether it is rational or not. The third area is the area of renewable resources. In Slovenia, too, probably because we did not have an energy concept, with renewable resources, especially with renewable sources in the field of photovoltaics, we used a lot of resources, and it is necessary to find those who will also pay for renewable subsidies. It is our opinion that all producers, except those producing renewable resources, should also pay for the subsidies of these renewable sources, and here we must very precisely agree on what will happen, and above all I think we should hear what the policy is in this area and when we will stop, say, building one piece of renewable energy, namely, photovoltaics. The fourth area I would like to highlight is also the fact that there are two systems within energy: the gene, if I simplify it, and the HSE. In my view, the organisation and the position of both companies must be levelled so that they have the same position. This same situation also means that we will be given an answer to the question whether the electricity produced from the Gene system has covered all the costs we need and whether the electricity we sell to Croatia has also covered the costs of decommissioning, storage costs and everything that is going on in the field of nuclear energy. Our view is also that all energy actors must be balanced with each other in the field of local community contributions. It is very easy and probably justified for some local communities to obtain compensation, rent or anything from electricity production. This needs to be coordinated, and we also need to be very careful about or directing the use of the water fund and to see where this water fund has been used, why it has been used there, and whether it would not be right for this water fund to be used by the Drava power plant and everything that has happened now in the flood, but perhaps also to be used where these damage can be done and damage will be much greater. The fifth area that we should agree on in some way is whether we can even small businesses with household appliances. A solution where small companies are given credit by equivalency with household allowance is at least considered inappropriate and could therefore lead to an unequal situation for companies. We are talking, of course, about the revenues of these companies and also about the number of employees. Once again, the Friday debate is extremely important to me. On the basis of this debate, we will be able to balance many of the answers that we will be putting here today – some of the answers we have – and on this basis we will also draw up a law that will cover most of the interests, especially the interests of users and of workers in the field of energy as much as possible. As we say, the Social Democrats will support the law at this stage as suitable for further consideration. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u350	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u351	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Since the adoption of its first version in 1999, the Energy Act has been amended many times in the National Assembly. Since the legal matter has been radically altered so many times and since the proposaler wants a more transparent, clearer and nomotechnically appropriate law, we now have a proposal for a new energy law under consideration. It brings the third energy package to Slovenia's legal order. The Directive on the common rules of the internal market in electricity, the Directive on the common rules of the internal market in natural gas, the Energy Efficiency Directive of buildings, the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and the Energy Efficiency Directive should also be transposed into the Slovenian legal order in part or in full. In addition to the transposition of the said Directives, the proposal for a law removes irregularities identified by the Constitutional Court relating to the area of networks which is currently weak and unclear in the law in force. The law is structurally clearer and more transparent. Areas such as electricity, natural gas, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, energy infrastructure, regulations relating to regulation and control are reasonably divided into chapters. In addition, the law clears the terms or terms that no longer apply. Let me mention a few changes. In the field of strategic documents on energy, the National Energy Programme will be replaced by the Energy Concept of Slovenia. The Energy Concept of Slovenia will set the objectives of secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply for the next 40 years on the basis of country's economic, environmental and social development projects and on the basis of accepted international commitments. This is a strategic paper on energy that will serve as a basis for potential investors interested in long-term investments in energy. The law promotes the implementation of energy checks. We all know that there are still great potentials in reducing the energy intensity of the economy through improved processes, the use of energy-efficient technologies and the efficient use of energy. With regard to energy audits, the State will undertake to renovate 3% of the total surface area of buildings owned by it every year from 1 January of next year in terms of increased energy efficiency. This is a requirement of the Energy Efficiency Directive. As a result of the financial and economic crisis, the volume of construction and infrastructure works decreased considerably after 2008, and investments declined. We want the construction sector to see and seize the opportunity in these measures. On the other hand, the law also introduces a series of provisions that will serve consumer protection and facilitate the transition between energy suppliers or suppliers of electricity or natural gas. In this segment, it is essential for the consumer to derogate from a contract on the supply of natural gas or electricity without the payment of a contract penalty, compensation or compensation if the termination takes effect after one year of conclusion. This provision will significantly limit the linkage with domestic customers and, on the other hand, facilitate the transition between suppliers and thus create a more competitive environment. Let me add that this is a law that regulates energy in its entirety, corrects shortcomings and inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and that is why we wish him a successful continuation of his legislative path in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u352	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u353	Your Honor! I brought my marriage with me so you can see how fat that is when we're talking about 500 members. Nice greeting, Mr President, and a nice greeting to all the representatives of the government who are here today! We have recently received a bill on the parliamentary bench, which is intended to reorganise the whole area of Slovenian energy systematically. This marriage is here before you now. This proposal has almost 500 pages together with its explanations, so we rightly expected a lot from the Slovenian People's Party Group. At least, of course, that we will finally get a capable energy concept, which will have a tail and head, so that we will all then know which direction Slovenian energy will go. But we soon realized that in this case too there is a lot of noise for nothing. When we say bob beans, this law, as in recent times it has become a rule under the safe umbrella of the transposition of European directives, brings citizens in particular new incentives for electricity and heating. Look at him, and two days ago they said there would be no new burdens on citizens and citizens. The new electricity and heating output is about 100 million. According to some estimates, ordinary citizens will contribute more to electricity and heating only each year, and the country will have nothing to do with this. In this law, it is also a matter of limiting competition and breaking the concept of the market that is currently operating in Slovenia for miracles. Something that works well, though, has to be broken. But why? That's the question we were asked. That proves there's some influence back on the job. What kind of influence? Energy lobbying that wants to be on the mid-term, not on the long, cheap to privatize energy. Unfortunately, the ministry and the entire government have succumbed to this. Who's already vice president of the biggest government party? There is no reason, however, for the energy law to prescribe a time limit for the supply of electricity to a maximum of one year for households and business customers, and you even specify the size of the company in the rank of the household. The law even places all companies up to 50 employees and up to 10 million assets or annual turnover. This includes around 99% of all Slovenian companies. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposal for an energy law is weak and is not suitable for further consideration. Just a few points, why. In the first place, because it offers incentives to citizens and to the economy. Secondly, because it is not based on the strategy for the development of Slovenian energy. It would normally be a strategy first, then a law. We don't know where we are and we don't know where we're going, but it's the law that tells us which way we're going. We don't know where, and we don't know where, but the law gave way. Thirdly, because it does not treat all energy market players equally, it completely unnecessarily restricts competition, which I do not think is in the European Directive. Some other reasons. This law introduces a new model, which experts say is worse and more expensive. It contains 556 articles and does not mention low-carbon energy sources in the law, although developed European Union countries are giving priority to the introduction of low-carbon technologies, including nuclear energy. Where she's in such a hurry with this law, it's not clear to anyone. Can you explain why this extensive law had to be dealt with at an emergency budget meeting, under the property taxation law and so on? Why did the general debate on the law have to be held today, before the public presentation of opinions, which will take place on Friday? Couldn't I wait for this marriage to take place on a regular basis? In the Slovenian People's Party, we propose that the Government first prepare a concept to prepare a strategy for the development of Slovenian energy. Why? So that we will no longer have Teša happening, that we will know how much and what hydropower plants we want to clearly record, whether we will build a second block of nuclear energy, that we will first set energy targets, make an energy map, and then, in the context of financial options, also set a time series. It will then make sense for the Government to revise the Energy Law proposal and bring it back to the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposal for an energy law is neither timely nor substantively appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u354	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u355	Dear President, distinguished members of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we are starting the first reading of the System's Energy Law Proposal, which will implement 10 directives into the Slovenian legal order and thus create appropriate conditions for the implementation of the European Union's regulations. The new law will allow for greater transparency of legislation in the field of energy, as the law in force has been amended five times. With each novelty, he became less transparent. The Energy Law proposal aims to systematically regulate three key energy pillars: reliability, competitiveness and low-carbonity. New strategic documents, such as the Energy Concept of Slovenia and the National Energy Development Plan, are being introduced in the field of energy policy. According to the proposaler's assessment, these documents will make it more transparent and easier to decide on the future development of the energy sector in the country. The proposal for a new law is governed by the common rules of the internal market with electricity and natural gas. These are aimed primarily at strengthening competition in the market, protecting consumer or customer rights and the independence of the national regulatory authority, while enhancing security of supply. As regards the area of renewable resources, the proposal follows the European Union's concept and energy policy. In order to ensure a more sustainable support scheme, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is thus empowered to decide which technologies and to what extent they will be encouraged to pursue the objectives of action plans for renewable energy and energy efficiency. The Government shall also be empowered to take the necessary decisions on resources for the support scheme. The most important innovations in energy efficiency are in the area of the building sector, where it is possible to achieve exceptional savings. The fact is, most buildings of an older date are very wasteful. Therefore, all measures are aimed at promoting greater energy efficiency in all areas. The proposal also gives greater importance to energy cards for buildings that are built according to the principle we know in, for example, household appliances. Cards play a very important role in the labelling of energy-efficient buildings. Under the provisions of the law, the issuer of energy cards will be obliged to report any issued energy card or its repeal to the competent Ministry of Registration. Simplification is also being established to produce the cards of existing buildings, thus ensuring an appropriate low cost of production. In particular, there is a legal obligation to ensure the advertising of an energy card in the media. The owners and managers of selected major public buildings will be obliged to place an energy card in a visible place by means of the provisions of the law. The main proposals in the new law also include an action plan to increase the number of almost zero-energy buildings in line with the Directive and amendments to feasibility studies for the use of alternative energy sources. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome provisions that will also require the public sector to provide energy for as little waste as possible, since we can save a lot of money for heating or cooling with effective measures. The proposal also regulates the distribution of heat and other energy gases. The basic objective of regulating this area is to ensure safe and secure supply of heat and other energy gases from closed networks. In doing so, we must not forget that due to the so-called natural monopoly of distributors, we must adequately protect consumers both in terms of supply and in terms of contractual obligations and price fixing. The text of the bill prohibits the disconnection of a vulnerable customer if life and health are endangered. That's what emergency care is supposed to be. This has preserved and much more precisely defined the concept so far. The customer shall bear the burden of proof of eligibility for emergency care and the distribution operator shall be left to assess the technical circumstances of eligibility for such care. While the measure itself is a social correction, it is not part of the energy law, so it is kept at a minimum level. The protection of vulnerable customers in remote areas referred to in the Directive is implemented in Slovenia with the same network principle throughout the country, regardless of the higher costs of the network in remote and sparsely populated parts of the country than in urban areas. This set also includes existing provisions relating to basic supply as they provide customers with a safety net if the supplier fails or the customer cannot obtain the supplier for any reason. Basic care is designed to encourage customers to move to normal care as soon as possible and therefore this design is not a market distortion. The law also regulates all information to consumers, access to data and mandatory components of the supply contract, as required by the Directive in several places. The Joint Contact Point is entrusted to the Public Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The provisions concerning the Agency, its tasks and operations are also quite detailed in the draft text. The implementation of the distribution of heat and other energy gases is, in principle, a selective economic service, and as such in the domain of the self-governing local community or municipality. This law seeks to establish a legislative framework for regulating the economic public service and determining the decision-making process in cases where such a form is not optimal and the municipality allows distribution in the so-called market distribution. An extremely important change brought about by the third energy package is the complete ownership separation of the transmission network system operator. For our country, the complete separation was the most logical solution, since the country is the 100 % owner of all three operators: the system, distribution and market operator. Therefore, we will not have problems with the implementation of the ownership separation, as the country will not have to sell shares in these companies. In the DeSUS Group, we are generally pleased with the text of the novel. In many parts, the law is quite detailed, perhaps even too much, but it is clear to us that the proposal will continue to stir up a lot of controversy, as energy has always been a cross between many interests. Those who control energy have power and money in their hands. We are therefore confident that the proposal for a law by the end of the hearing will be subject to a number of amendments. In the DeSUS Group, we will monitor all the changes closely, so we are also pleased to make a public presentation of the opinions in this Chamber on Friday. In the first reading of the Member and Member of the DeSUS Group, we consider the proposal to be suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u356	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u357	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! We have a new energy law ahead of us, which, by content, is very extensive and fully replaces the current law in this area. As a public presentation of opinions on the new energy proposal is announced on Friday, only some of the open issues of Slovenian energy, especially the work on electricity, will be addressed in Nova Slovenija. Our company is becoming increasingly dependent on electricity and is trying to use it as efficiently as possible. Slovenia is no different from other countries in this process. In order to reduce our energy independence, we have decided, among other things, to implement the construction of the sixth block of the thermal power plant Šostanj and to subsidise solar power plants. We believe that these decisions have been poorly thought out and without a proper professional basis. The construction of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant has grown into the most expensive investment of Slovenian energy so far, and is like a fiasco as a success story. The reckless subsidisation of photovoltaics also returns to us as boomerang, because at random moments from these sources they come into a system of large amounts of energy that cause a whole system of overcrowding. The electricity market is a very sensitive system that needs rapid responses and, on the other hand, it is economically ruthless and mainly follows the legality of supply and demand. The case highlighted shows that blind promotion of renewable energy sources can also work harmfully and also shows that we urgently need a national energy programme that has been in preparation for more than two years. The last strategic document in this area was adopted in 2004 and the energy situation has changed since then. In New Slovenia, we believe that in the context of renewable energy sources we should bet mainly on those elements that Slovenia overcomes and controls, especially on water and geothermal energy. We therefore support the continuation of the construction of installed hydroelectric power plants, but unfortunately the projects in the middle Stream of Sava are largely due to the lack of the will of key decision makers. In doing so, we underline in particular the irresponsible behaviour of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. It should be noted that the construction of hydroelectric power plants is also relevant in terms of the relaunching of the Slovenian economy, as around 90% of equipment and infrastructure can be provided by Slovenian companies. With regard to the new energy law in New Slovenia, however, we believe that a national energy programme should be adopted before that, in order to determine its energy strategy for the next decades. Only then would it make sense to draw up an energy law that would follow more specifically the guidelines outlined for such a strategy. Unfortunately, the energy strategy project at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has been standing since the beginning of 2012. That is why in Novi Slovenija we appeal to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and Minister Omerzel to speed up procedures and strategy as soon as possible. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not oppose the new energy law at first reading. Due to numerous comments on the law by the interested public, we are also looking forward to a public presentation Friday on this law. We also expect that certain problems will be clarified in the adoption process and that solutions will eventually be adopted that will be acceptable to both citizens and the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u358	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikonja will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u359	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We are looking at an extremely extensive and challenging text covering the electricity market, the natural gas market, heat supply, renewable energy, energy efficiency, the Energy Agency, energy infrastructure and transport of carbon dioxide. The proposal for an EZ-1 energy law transposes 11 Directives into Slovenia and lays down legal measures for the implementation of 6 European Union regulations. The transposition of directives entails a lot of changes to the provisions of the current energy law, so a new law must be adopted after the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. An additional reason for the adoption of the new law is to increase the transparency of the text itself and the transparency of the transposition of extensive European legislation into the national legal order, as the basic law of 1999 has already been amended five times. The aim of the bill is to regulate the rules of the internal market with electricity and natural gas, to lay down rules for the separation and certification of the transmission system operator with electricity and to legally and functionally separate natural gas transmission system operators while at the same time increasing the security of electricity and natural gas supply. The rules for the operation of system operators and the internal market in electricity and natural gas will be regulated by strengthening healthy competition on the market. The law also contains provisions that provide greater consumer protection. The law also provides for the necessary care for the socially weak. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we believe that the law still has shortcomings, but considerable emphasis is placed on the legislative provisions on energy efficiency, which requires us to also introduce mandatory energy checks into our legislation for large companies. While these reviews bring additional costs to companies, we can claim from experience from abroad that, following the company's checks, it would save a lot of money. In the field of energy efficiency, the law sets out the objectives primarily for the public sector. The objectives of the law include greater use of renewable energy sources and co-generation of heat, but are planned. The law also regulates remote heating and also gives the Energy Agency a supervisory function. During the public hearing, more than 900 comments were made on the individual articles of the bill, which was submitted by more than 60 interested parties, which means that the interested professional public actively participated in the drafting of the law that we are currently considering. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we support the proposal for an energy law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u360	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going through a general debate between Members and Members, and as the first to be reported is mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u361	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, I was not the first, I was 7th or 8th, but I am obviously aware of the hour of influence on interest, after my assessment of the important law before us, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Energy has submitted this document for consideration, that we will consider this document in accordance with some normal, regular procedure, and that we will be able to discuss it further in the Committee debate, when amendments or certain comments or other solutions are considered, without any pressure. Firstly, I have heard that there are three important objectives: the reliable, competitive and sustainable supply of Slovenia with energy at all levels, including electricity, gas, oil derivatives, because we know that we do not have refineries and so on. In doing so, I would add another important objective: safe. Our energy facilities are not only reliable in terms of supply and the system is reliable, but they must also be safe. It is also not enough to have a competitive price for electricity or natural gas, but it must also be safe and similar. I believe that this objective is very important and unfortunately has an impact on all parameters, on competitiveness, on reliability, because security costs. As the social state costs, ensuring energy security in Slovenia costs. It is therefore important to include it in these four basic objectives or pillars of the supply of Slovenia. In this document, it is difficult to find an answer to one very simple thesis – whether Slovenia wants to be in certain areas where it has natural opportunities to do so, to seek self-sustainment or not. Let's say we can't have self-sustainment in oil derivatives because we don't have oil. I'm sure it's hard with gas, even though I'm not saying it's impossible, but we don't have it so far. On the other hand, as far as electricity is concerned, I would expect the energy law to say one thesis in this direction. This is something you probably leave to strategic documents in this area. That's my first point. In this document or law you provide three strategic documents: the Energy Concept of Slovenia, the National Energy Development Plan, the annual energy balance. As far as the energy balance is concerned, we probably all agree that this is necessary, well, as far as some serious strategic documents are concerned, I think we have experienced that we are significantly less independent here in recent years than we were 5 to 10 years ago. We even have a set of directives of the European Union, and this law summarizes or implements them. If they're not here yet, the novels are in the past. We have a whole set of directives that are quite a route to our energy concept, both in terms of production, because we are betting on renewables, low-carbon sources, including consumption reduction and, very importantly, we are being routed by the electricity market or the opening up of this market. We are no longer particularly sovereign in this area, and I think that is the case. It is therefore a serious question whether in this broadest sense we need some kind of conceptual solution. However, we need strategic documents, particularly purely feasible, operational programmes for the development of production, transmission and distribution when we are talking about electricity. Similarly, to a smaller extent, of course, when we are talking about gas, because we do not have production – here is the transfer, here is the distribution and the rules of use of this. I think that the rules of application will define this law, but as regards some coordinated investments for earlier, we need operational strategic documents. I wonder about the relationship between the country as some kind of regulator of the functioning of this system and the companies that are working on their development plans. I think it is right that we would really have a development programme that would be feasible, that would be mutually synchronous between different companies and that would answer the fundamental questions of energy development in this country. If I go to one of those that is most written, say, electricity, we probably need an answer to what production plants or resources we're going to build in the future and how we're going to replace them. I think that such a viable development plan should also answer the question of what we are going to do when we have to shut down the existing nuclear power plant, because we are now in the process of prolonging life. Once there will be 2040, 2050, when this power plant will no longer work, and if we don't start applying for it today, we won't be ready for it. Similarly, the question is what happens when we close the lignite mine in Velenj, whether or not we will continue to beat the power plants in Slovenia. I am in favour of the continuation of the projects that have been initiated or already implemented, but we must also have an answer to what then, at least in a vision, and to what we will do with what unfortunately slips too intensely across the country every year – these are concrete water resources. We still have some hydropower potential on the Sava, and we all want -- as we can see, there is not a single dilemma in this House regarding the construction of these power plants, but despite the concession granted five years ago on the mid-Savi to date, nothing serious has happened on this project, and it does not appear that it would happen in the future, because the issue is complicated by some banality. One such viable operational programme for the development of electricity, as well as other energy, should also be the law for all, respected gentlemen, officials in all departments, especially in the environmental sector, and on any other sector, which repeatedly stumbles and puts a stick in the wheel developing some universal, nationally recognised projects, but because of some small interests of some individuals, including the afternoon environmentalists, some things do not happen and last, and, help me God, all of them victims of all Slovenian energy. Why is that a problem? The problem is also because, through this viable development programme, companies could plan some investment activity for these companies. Some belief in Slovenia is that energy generates some kind of profit, some nice money, and it is very good that this money is earmarked for these projects. If we knew which ones, and if you were viable, we could do that. However, because we have a whole bunch of problems in this area and we do not have this operational plan yet in place – as a department minister, I worked seven years ago at the Ministry of Economy to do so. Then the profits could be invested in these investments and it could possibly be something new built, which unfortunately is not. The money from energy went into the integral budget, also went to the New Credit Bank Maribor and elsewhere. In the mandate of the government of Borut Pahor, 20 million Euros of energy money went to recapitalise the New Credit Bank of Maribor. Now we're all going to solve this together, and the taxpayers are going to get pissed. Simply put, this should not happen with some clear strategy and some operational development programme for investing in electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, I know something about you on those sides, and I know that you have nothing to do with it, that this has happened, and that it may happen tomorrow, tomorrow and the future, but if we don't have some clear will and some documents we're following, that's what's going on. It is no coincidence that there is no national energy programme and all the other acts because it suits someone to collect cream from energy and channel it for such and other purposes of the integrated budget. I don't think that's right, and that's my second thesis. The energy money should be spent on investments to achieve these four objectives, which I have mentioned – for the secure, safe, sustainable and competitive supply of the Slovenian population and the energy economy, both in gas and in electricity. The next thing I want to say is that perhaps some of the solutions in this law are not aimed at achieving these objectives. I probably understand that you have faced a number of interests in writing this law and such or other drafts of this law, which have already been submitted or have been in such or other amendments. Here would be my first question to the representatives of the energy ministry: how is it that, despite some ambition after the open market with electricity, the ambition for prices to be freely shaped here are the elements that limit it in law? Intervention and regulation of some regular pricers, asking questions about price formation, is actually making a price that relates to fixed and variable costs – I wonder why, because if we have an open market, it seems perfectly logical for me to win the most competitive. Why would the legislator prescribe the rules of the game to him if there was no public benefit? For example, if I compare this regulation in the field of postal services, since telecommunications and energy have some very similar elements. For example, for postal services, we have a so-called universal service, which is owed to the provider or the provider of this postal service, regardless of the costs. Universal service, for example, means that we provide letters or with some normal postal services also remote places in hills where the stamp does not justify or reimburse the costs of the postman who goes up and down to deliver that letter. This is a universal service, but since we have some standard, it is right that those operators involved also ensure this, regardless of cost. It now seems to me that, through this policy, which is to be seen in these provisions relating to the electricity and natural gas market, in some ways, those who recognise that fixed costs are also determined by consumers who do not nearly recover the costs of issuing an invoice by taking electricity. Because I have air conditioning in the wine cellar in the vineyard, I use a few electricitys, and a lot of people have some weekends somewhere where they have one lamp, they don't even have a refrigerator, and it's probably more expensive than it's all worth, and there's not even a single electricity dealer in the interest of covering one because it has more costs with it. What I'm saying is that the impact on price formation in these segments is twofold. Why? Dearly noted, it is important to note in this law the favouring of some suppliers, where it is more than obvious to stimulate those without fixed costs and variable costs and in some way prevent the formation of some price lists. I don't understand this, and here I want you to answer the question of what you, as a legislator, have decided to regulate or legally intervene in this area in such a way. Then we have this unfortunate or happy power grid, which has been a dedicated source so far, because those who have joined the network have also paid something because the network on which it has joined has become something that is where it has joined. Behind that connection is a whole bunch of infrastructure, and this is very similar to in some other areas, from plumbing and other installations. Now, as I understand it, the intention of this money is lifted. This money has so far been earmarked for those who have collected it, or investments in the network have been a dedicated resource. Now this intention is lost and the purpose of this source is very unclear. One even gets the feeling that, under the cover of lowering some prices on the counters, the one who wants to join the network will probably have to invest more in order to be able to join the network at all, for the distributor or the one who wants to join the network will not have the money for it. I would mention another thing that's not irrelevant or two other things, that I don't get tired for too long. One is associated with renewable resources. In the coming years, it is expected, on the basis of the provisions of the law, that certain contributions will be made to solid and liquid fossil fuels such as coal, propulsion fuels, fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas and also liquefied natural gas. These are the resources that are relatively expensive today when we talk about individual consumption. We've got a whole bunch of people on these energy lines, and a lot of people would go to some heat pump and probably some renewables if they had money to invest. Such an investment costs something today, between EUR 5 and EUR 10 000 for an apartment house. I believe that this extension can also be an important blow to those who are still heating up or using these classical energy products, but are not able to move on to something else and will have to eat up the energy prices with these contributions. I also want to know what the strategy is in this area. In the end, that's all. Does and when does the energy law provide for the fulfilment of the coalition commitment to reduce the cost of industrial waste by 10% within 6 months of the government's appearance by various measures — in your thoughts? You wrote that down, a respected coalition, in a coalition contract. That's what I asked you once. It is now 7 months from now, and the electricity prices for industrial consumers have not dropped at all, and I wonder whether and when they will fall by 10% on the basis of this energy law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u362	Thank you very much. A representative of the Government of Mags also took the floor. Bojan Kumer, so first I give my word to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u363	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I owe some clarification to certain misleading facts that have been presented in the general debate. It seemed powerful that the marriage was long, extensive, impenetrable. The comments clearly say that it is the opposite, that it is very transparent, that it is very structured, and that the professional public, which will apply this law more or less to the best extent possible, welcomes this structure and this arrangement, which we have finally regulated after 14 years. It is a debt, for sure, but if we put all the directives in one piece, all the regulations that the European Union requires us to add to the box of the specifics of Slovenian legislation, we add to the Court of Auditors' decision, the Constitutional Court and the current regulation that governs the state of Slovenian energy, we get exactly that, exactly that kind of law. As long as we file the European directives and regulations, we are almost on the same page. Of course, paper thickness can then be questionable, but the content is one that counts something. The public agency will still be public. Of course, not under the Law on Public Agencies, because here too European directives impose certain obligations, because having a public agency that is followed every time by government policy and at the same time wishing to have a very well-functioning, transparent electricity market or natural gas or other energy providers are contradictory dictates, and this needs to be regulated once and for all. We need a strong, independent, autonomous agency, regulatory body, and here we follow the example of those countries of the European Union that already have this. There has been a talk about re-introducing the organisation of system operators of the distribution network. In fact, in Article 78, we are merely preserving the situation that we have, and we are not blocking any new solution that would arise from this title. We are aware that the law cannot be used to push strategies, action plans, rules, different concepts into it. On the one hand, you claim that it is already such a long time, but I see from the debate and from the initiatives that you want some more dictions, which article, that the current monopoly can be maintained and that a certain privilege is defended, but I will go to that later. The current EZ-E law has 300 sub-legislative acts. The question is, are these really submarital acts? We need to move a number of illegal acts to a higher level. This is also required of us as legislators. It's hard stuff, what's in the marriage and what's in the submarital act. It has been heard that we have the power to equalize the rights of domestic customers and so-called small business customers. That's not true. We're just extending our rights, giving extra to small business customers or medium-sized enterprises. So far, all governments have ignored this fact. On the one hand, they wanted and populistally urged us to support the craftsmen to support small and medium-sized enterprises, but at least in the field of electricity, they did not do anything about it. Nothing at all. This government, this legislator, is going to be with this dictatorship, we are absolutely sure, has lowered the prices for these companies. It will no longer happen as it did in 2008, when electricity prices fell on the market. Suppliers who are stronger customers in this process – I believe they knew this to a large extent – but only before that did they extend or mass conclude long-term contracts. And once again, look at the fraction, we have an uncompetitive economy. This is where we are now giving the opportunity as a responsible legislator to prevent this, because it certainly did not happen for the first time and we hope that the last time, and that a small or medium-sized enterprise, an entrepreneur, if it has been misled by the signature of a long-term contract, has the opportunity to change and obtain the market price currently in force on the market. That's not possible right now. It is only an option, an additional right, a protection that will now be available under the applicable law or when it comes into force. Now he didn't have that right. There are a number of initiatives, a series of letters to all suppliers when the electricity market collapsed so that they could reduce and survive. A lot of companies have failed because of this. From 2008 to June 2013, when the team performed, absolutely nothing happened to the legislator’s little protection of this category. That's exactly what we're doing. Here we listened to the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I think they are the most competent on what they want from this area from the responsible legislator. I believe that the appetites of the existing privileges protected by suppliers are contrary and contradictory to this, but the fact is quite contrary. Here are the biggest margins, usually using more energy for their needs, but because they are usually businesses that deal with their core business, this is a side issue for them. We've also heard the obvious that we're banning lump sums in accounts. It is true, once again, as responsible legislators, that we want to increase transparency, as it was also a category expressed, that we want a transparent, transparent market and transparency for all market players. It is also not true that this applies to everyone. This applies only to regular prices. If we have between 5 and 10 stakeholders operating on the electricity market, this is for 7 price ranges. In the flood of all actions today in the media, this institute has been the most abused, especially in the last six months. Here again, the legislator stepped in the defense of the consumer and the Slovenian customer that he would no longer be able to do so. In order not to advertise the most expensive offer in the set as the cheapest, we are preventing this, but on the other hand, we are ordering the independent regulator to make a transparent, clear, transparent price comparison. This is what the consumer needs to see. If you look at this provider today – otherwise it is very well prepared, but too many offers are compared and it is difficult to find. We are going in the direction of telecommunications or mobile packages where the flood is, and no one today knows which is the most favourable for the individual consumer at the moment. There was also a criticism that it would be advisable to make a strategy for Slovenia in the field of energy first. Why don't we have one? In June, when we started preparing the energy law, we did not have this option because all previous governments took this option and this choice. If we go to prepare such a serious, good, professional and broad consensual energy strategy or energy concept of Slovenia, we will prepare it for quite some time, certainly longer than the law. On the other hand, the implementation of the directives into the Slovenian legal order has been ignored for three years, so that we already have sentences at risk. As a responsible legislator, we must not overlook this fact. At the same time, it is a great challenge to do so. It is essential that this law does not block any solution that could later come from the energy concept of Slovenia. It is generally known and spoken in the professional towers that it has a so-called National Energy Programme, which was last adopted years ago, in the previous decade, a very negative connotation, that it is not professionally accepted, that it is too extensive, that everyone in there can find something. If Slovenia wants to – I don't think so. The legislator has never said that we will not do this, but we need to stick to the priority, we need to stick to the choice if there was even a choice. The former governments had this choice, and now there was no choice. The energy concept of Slovenia – we will definitely tackle it, but this energy law does not block any good solution that could come from the energy concept of Slovenia. And what is essential is that the National Energy Programme did not have the name of Slovenia in its vocabulary, and it was appropriate for us to at least show by name that it is a Slovenian national energy programme. It was heard that expectations regarding this marriage were high and that after reading some were disappointed that the burdens were increasing. The electricity market operates on the basis of market principles, the natural gas market based on the principles of the market legality of natural gas. That's good. However, there are increasing taxes, contributions due to the need to promote renewable energy sources. In the past, the Slovenian state has decided to promote renewable energy sources, and today contributions are growing so that we can promote renewable energy sources. Only these burdens have grown. The market burden has fallen, and if we look at what contracts are concluded today, I am sure that many economic operators have already concluded contracts that are consistent with the objectives set out in the coalition contract – less than 10% of the price of last year. Firstly, because market legality allows this, and secondly, because we have also reduced contributions from renewable energy sources. And at the same time, why are we extending our contributions to other energy providers? The expert argument here is very simple, because why would only an energy such as electricity be burdened to put resources on a renewable energy source? Here we have natural gas, cold, heat, UP, fuel. If we look at the consumer who is heating up at home and someone who is heating up on electricity today, the one who is heating up on electricity is paying today for the so-called solar power plants, which are the most, and the one who is heating up on natural gas is nothing. Where's the discrimination here? Where's the last legislators to handle it? That's exactly what we're trying to do. Here we will redistribute the burdens, in line with commitments made by past governments – to achieve the targets of 25% from renewable energy sources by 2020 at the end of gross consumption. It's been audible that we're shutting down the so-called OPM, a contribution to connecting power. That's not true either. We give it in a different form, we give it in a more proper form, to those who are meant to do so, to those who invest it, because today it is a resource of purpose. The Court of Auditors subsequently determined why this should apply as a system operator of the distribution network. It is still being maintained, everything will remain the same, but this item goes exactly where it belongs in the energy sector. The distribution companies will be able to invest again from this source, as they invested from 1999 to the Court of Auditors' decision, and we are only eliminating this anomaly by means of this law. Slovenia wants self-sustainment, and we want safe energy, but here we can happily see that we have reached very high, even the highest standards for the security of electricity supply in Slovenia. We are one of the few countries of the European Union that has not experienced various interruptions over the past two decades. Germany, which is always given for a reference, also had some such interruptions. If you are really close to the maximum here, on the other hand, we have a limping competitiveness, a limping reliability – we need to focus on this. We are pleased to say that we keep security in Article 18, in energy policy, everywhere. We continue to want such high standards of security for all energy providers. Why don't we take the law faster? That's what you're gonna have to ask our predecessors. I wish this law had already been passed. As such, with 556 articles correctly quoted – when we prepared it, we had severe time pressure because we want to avoid any punishment from the European Union due to the three years ahead of implementation of the electric and so-called gas directives. We have been faced with the fact that we will make up a good energy law in time, or that we will satisfy the time dimension, or that we will go to make a maximum good law. But you know, it's always like you've already figured out correctly: there's a lot of vectors in energy, and once it's in direction, all those vectors that aren't aligned with this direction have to be normalised. However, we claim that there has not been such a good vector with this law in the history of Slovenia. It was mentioned that the law limits the market with these flat-rate costs. As I mentioned earlier, it is limited here only to regular prices if the regular price list covers at least 10% of the customers of that supplier. Each supplier can charge flat-rate costs on all other seven packages, but this regular price list, which is usually the highest from the supplier and is misleading through the benchmark on the reference page of the agency – there we will ban this precisely because of increasing transparency so that any ignorant customer can see which offer is the cheapest. There will be a direct consequence that prices will start to drop. Once again, we want to put the consumer first, and we are going to turn these costs into the good of the final customer or the consumer. This government also supports investments in hydroelectric power plants. We're moving to a low-carbon society. In the last week, we had the power to see a lecture by the advisor of the English government, David, that each transition cost something. At a time when the economy in Slovenia is having difficulty paying the current costs, it will immediately jump into a low-carbon society with too much burden. Our main focus is on decommissioning and burden-bearing in the far future in order to achieve our objectives. Slovenia has set itself above average targets in the past in order to achieve renewable energy sources. The average is 20, and we have set ourselves a target in the past 25%, and someone will have to pay for it. Who's gonna pay? When they set this goal, they did not count on it – the Slovenian consumer and the Slovenian economy. But this government is the first one to start unloading in this regard, to properly redistribute these loads between individual energy sources and to watch megawatt hours or gigajoules to make it to the right level. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Bravely, respected secretary of state, for someone who wants to defend this energy law. With some relatively political speech here, he tries to justify certain solutions, but at the same time he has not responded to some things. Finally, I asked you a specific question about which there was no spirit or hearing. If you have already politically addressed us, I ask you when the coalition commitment will be fulfilled, when will you lower the price of electricity for industrial customers by 10%, as you have made very clear in the agreement on the participation of four coalition parties. Not with this marriage. I don't see that. It was probably some pre-election promise that was hard to live up to. In all your long performance, which lasted for 20 minutes, there was no response, and it is very important and probably interesting to many who are now looking forward to meeting your goals on the competitive supply of energy to Slovenia. Next thing. We can't share our views, but if you're telling me that the ban is on the 10th paragraph of Article 46 says that house customers are not allowed to charge flat-rate operating costs with a regular price. That's what paragraph 10 says. Today we have the structure of an electricity bill, and it is very transparent. We have written how much is the energy cost, how much is the cost of the network, how much is the cost of contributions to renewable resources, how much is the tax, how much is the excise duty and so on. I think it would be a step towards transparency for the energy supplier to tell me that according to his regular price, it means that he's treating me at all, sending me bills, keeping me in some records, 0.03 cents and other energy. We could compare that. Some who have to, and have these records and send them, wonder why you advocate greater transparency if it should not appear, than if it shows up. I think this is a step backwards – that the story of electricity shows fixed and variable costs and that it must not be separated. You are saying that the market is opening up, that freedom is increasing and transparency is increasing, but do not allow regular prices to select these costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u366	Three minutes, Mr. Visac. It was a replica, wasn't it? Not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Yeah, yeah. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Only Bevk is reported as the next debater, followed by Mrs Alenka Pavlič and Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u369	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! We have before us the proposal for an energy law, one of the most complex laws that we will consider in this mandate in the National Assembly. There are 556 members on 488 pages. Only the final and transitional provisions count more than 50 articles, and it is also very difficult. The law in the National Assembly is dealt with on a regular basis. The SDS Group proposed a general debate on the content of the law. This first review is intended to discuss the reasons for the amendment of the law and the principles, objectives and main solutions to the draft law. However, the Group of Social Democrats proposed to the Committee on Infrastructure and Space that there should also be a public presentation of opinions aimed at obtaining useful and additional information and invited experts and other interested public to provide new information in this procedure. We are convinced that the adoption of the Energy Act in Slovenia is so important that a public presentation of the opinions that will begin in this Chamber on Friday, 15 November, at 10 a.m. is also made, so I invite all interested professionals to participate in these debates and to make their contribution within the framework of the parliamentary procedure. The Home Committee also identifies some of the main issues that should be discussed in the context of the public presentation of opinions, namely, what are the reasons and objectives for the adoption of the new energy law, which is the strengths and weaknesses in the energy sector in the Republic of Slovenia, how to ensure that European funds for energy investments are drawn more efficiently, whether it is meaningful to regulate different areas of energy in one law or better to regulate different areas in the field of electricity, gas, heat, energy efficiency, or whether the proposed solutions are appropriate for local communities and what changes they bring and so on. The Basic Energy Law was adopted 14 years ago, before Slovenia entered the European Union, so it did not transpose any European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. This was followed by five amendments to the law and a sixth amendment made by the previous government, and the current coalition withdrew from the legislative process in May this year. Thus, the current government has drawn up a proposal for a new energy law that primarily transposes 10 directives and 6 regulations of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order and finally aligns energy legislation with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, due to the failure to transpose the two European directives on electricity and natural gas, proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia are already pending before the European Court of Justice. If the law does not comply with the European acquis by the end of this year, our country is facing high financial penalties, if I am not mistaken, totalling 22,000 euros a day. Slovenia must take into account international commitments and orientations, and energy policy in the European Union is increasingly coordinated. The law covers the scope of the electricity market, the natural gas market, heat supply, renewable energy sources, efficient energy use, the Energy Agency, energy infrastructures and carbon dioxide transport. In the field of energy policy, the current National Energy Programme will replace the Energy Concept of Slovenia, where the main strategic orientations will be recorded, for the next 20 years, and for an indicative period of 40 years. The government should update it every 10 years and report every 3 years to the National Assembly on the achievement of indicators and on the flow of investments in power plants and infrastructure facilities. Within one year of the adoption of this umbrella national programme, the government must adopt the DREN National Energy Development Plan, which lists the most important investments in energy infrastructure. Slovenia has an exemplary concept of energy supply and electricity production. We produce about a third of electricity from renewable energy sources, from hydropower plants, a third from thermal power plants, and a third from the Krško nuclear power plant. As one of the experts, energy, wrote, is our largest power plant an efficient use of energy. In addition, we need to complete the hydropower plant on Sava as soon as possible, finally adopt all the documents for the start of the investment cycle on the Central Sava and on some of the smaller watercourses, continue to use renewable energy sources, at the same time contribute to sustainable energy and decide to build the second block of the Krka Nuclear Power Plant. Our current largest potential investment resource is the funds we will be able to obtain from European funds, perhaps from European Investment Bank loans, and the investment potential of the Slovenian energy economy. That is why I see the impetus of investment in rail, road and energy infrastructure as a turning point for the recovery of the Slovenian economy, for the growth of gross domestic product and for the exit from the economic, financial and social crisis, so that we ourselves will be the master on our land. The social democrats will be supported by the energy law at first reading. Members of the Ministry and the Secretary of State thank you for the thorough work done. As Chairman of the Infrastructure and Space Committee, I guarantee that I will do everything necessary to ensure that the law is adopted in a timely manner and that our country avoids the payment of the high penalties that threaten us before the European Court for the delay in implementing the European directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlič has the floor. For her, Mr Zvonko Černač, followed by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u371	Thank you very much. My debate will not be as long as my predecessors' debate, but perhaps the length of the debate suggests that this energy law is a real tough one. As my predecessors have already warned, there are almost 6 centimeters thick marriage, almost 600 pages and almost 600 articles, so this is really not a cough. However, the energy law was probably too much for the previous government, or government, of John Janša, who sent the law or proposal to the procedure when she was already on her way out. The answer to the Secretary of State why it had not been accepted – I would say that given that almost a hundred amendments had to be tabled, such a law is certainly not relevant in the parliamentary procedure. So I welcome your decision to decide and write a new law. This law transposes 11 directives into Slovenia and lays down legal measures for the enforcement of 6 European Union regulations. An additional reason for the adoption of this law is to increase the transparency of the text itself, as you have already said, and the transparency of the transposition of comprehensive European legislation into the national legal order. The aim of the bill is to regulate the internal market rules with electricity and natural gas and to lay down rules for the separation and certification of the transmission system operator for electricity and the legal and functional separation of natural gas transmission system operators while at the same time increasing the security of electricity and natural gas supply. The law will bring economic burden to large energy consumers who complained about high electricity prices, such as the Slovenian steel industry or the Acroni Jesenice. Given that we have a public presentation of our opinions on Friday 15 November, as the predecessors have already said, it would not deepen itself in the detailed content of the debate itself in the first reading. I think we can also get a lot of smart proposals for corrections that we will be able to make through the procedure in future. However, I agree with my colleague Bevk, who says that it is absolutely necessary to accept this by the beginning of 2014 so that we do not have to pay high fines, about 20,000 euros a day for two regulations, for every regulation, for 10,000 euros. That's why I'm going to support this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! During the three days of discussions on important topics in the National Assembly we discussed changes in the budget for 2014, budget for 2015, ZIPro – by the way, if you count in ZIPro the amount for which the government of Alenka Bratušek will owe us in the coming year, you will reach the number 12.3 billion euro – the Real Estate Tax Act, the Income Law, the Banking Act and so on, and today we have an energy law. Even though it is a very difficult matter, I can see that this government can do all this without ministers. It works at the level of State secretaries and secretaries, because in all these days we had the opportunity to see the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister for a few minutes and for a little more economic time, otherwise the full burden of defending all these decisions was placed on the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. We have before us, as has already been established, a law covering an important area that covers an area that is fairly precisely and strictly regulated at the level of the European Union and also in our country, because the existing regulation is also quite precise, quite precise. We have heard that a few hundred sub-legislative acts regulating this area, that the system is rather imprecise and that one of the ambitions in amending this area has also been to make this system more transparent. If we look at the law itself, we cannot be very optimistic that this will also happen, but today we have a general debate, on Friday, a public presentation of opinions, and I would say that it is an opportunity to find out on the basis of this general debate that this law is suitable for further consideration, so that we can all improve it together in an appropriate manner, even if a hundred amendments are needed. All amendments to this law, with the exception of Amendment D, have, as has been said several times today, been designed to adapt our legislation to the European legal order, to regulate the conditions for the functioning of the electricity market, to regulate the regulatory area, to regulate the implementation of economic public services in the field of electricity and gas, and to ensure the efficient use of energy and renewable energy. The reason for the new energy law is mainly in non-compliance with the rules of the European Union. These were Directives, 5 Directives, indirectly 10. Two, Directives 72 and 73, which have already raised the threat of punishment in Slovenia, and more appropriate implementation or implementation of individual regulations of the European Union and compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The emphasis on substantive work, on substantive changes, is also important in this law. In the National Assembly, the amendment of the existing law in the spring procedure was precisely because Slovenia was under this pressure to comply with European Union law, but in May in the current coalition you decided to stop this process, and a decision was taken to prepare the new energy law that is before us today. What exactly is this new energy law? What is the content of this law? This is the 2011 Zares Act. At that time, Mr Kopač was Secretary of State, the area was controlled by Zares, and if you have little nugulate and funny energy law 2011, you will get on the internet the text of this law, which has the same substantive structure, 565 articles – in the current 556 – so that the platform, if we are to be honest and honest, of the energy law, is what was the concept of Zaresa in 2011, which was not then adopted, although the law was in the public debate from June 2011 to September 2011. It was not accepted because of the government crisis of the Pahor government, and the procedure did not continue at that time. This fact is also acknowledged by the current proposer, because in his explanation he says: "The draft energy law, which is the subject of this material, has been under consideration since 11. 6. 2013 to 30. 6. 2013 The duration of the public hearing is shorter due to the fact that public treatment has already been carried out for the energy law since 24. 6. 2011 to 30. 9. 2011." That's what it says in the explanation for this law that we have on the table today. Some things have been changed, mainly because some decisions of the Constitutional Court and some other directive have also occurred, but by content, according to the concept, that is all. The comments made by colleagues from Social Democrats also tell me that this is all because, in some of the positions that have been raised, particularly in the position of the Social Democrats Group, I must say that we agree that, after a public presentation of the opinions that will be delivered on Friday, some of the solutions should be thoroughly debated and seen whether the law is appropriate or not in such a concept and what to do if this concept does not change. The proposal says: "We are following the fundamental objectives of competitiveness, reliability, low-carbonity." Great. That's normal. The question when we look at the poultry of this law is whether it is a law that protects the interests of customers or users, which is a fundamental, priority purpose on the one hand, and whether it is a law that provides adequate competitive conditions for those who operate on this market and does not favour some among them. Is it really a law that does not have built-in mechanisms that some, once adopted, will be privileged in connection with others, perhaps some older players in this market? It's more than that, one more important question. Given that Slovenia is small and we know who is visiting whom and who has ever been — is it not the interest of a particular company, a particular part of electricity? There is nothing wrong with not being misunderstood if this interest is built in the interests of customers, those who are beneficiaries of these services, and of the entire electricity economy. However, if it is built in such a way that its implementation allows for the exploitation of one part of the market position in such a way as to enable it to have a better position than everyone else because of the provisions of the law, then this is wrong and this is wrong. It is a feeling that, unfortunately, some of them have been stronger, even in reshaping this law, which is sort of a 2011 skeleton. We know who was in charge of energy at the time, and we know who is in charge of energy today – at Jankovic's Positive Slovenia, that there will be no misunderstanding about which I am talking about. Fingerprints can be found in these provisions of the law, especially in the part that talks about the electricity and natural gas market. Individual dilemmas regarding price and price formation have been raised. I think this is about issues that are concrete and that can be clarified in the context of further consideration of the law if this first sieve survives. However, we probably all agree that these provisions must be designed in such a way as to allow for the greatest possible transparency, as the Secretary of State has also said. But we understand this transparency differently than he does. Just as these provisions are now enshrined in the law, we understand them differently from him. These things are gonna have to be cleared up. I hear that not only us, but also some political groups within the current coalition. I think it's right that we clear this up, and it's right that this presentation is on Friday. It is not good to favour individual companies in this area, and it is not good that they are thus given a competitive advantage in obtaining new customers. It is particularly not good if this is done with some long-range aim of any further privatisation and of obtaining certain other benefits in privatising this part of the activity. There are also some inconsistencies in the law itself that need to be addressed and will need to be addressed. We also believe that, despite good intentions, the aim of the proposer is to allow individual companies to increase market work, not on the basis of market activity under equal conditions, but by incorporating rules that will be more favourable to some than others, or if I am concrete, which will be more written on the skin than others. There was also some talk about these documents – the Energy concept of Slovenia, which replaces the National Energy Programme, the National Energy Development Plan and so on. If these documents are set up in the manner defined in the law, we will again have some new resolution documents, some resolutions that will not be too helpful. More or less we have plans, all these companies have plans – it would be wrong not to have them. All companies have 10-year plans for concrete tasks, concrete infrastructure projects. It is known how and how it is intended to carry out its activities, and if it is intended to make a common strategy, then it is not what is now written in the law. Then make a concrete operational development programme that will have on the one hand certain resources for this, and also a timeline in which these concrete projects will be implemented. In particular, the State's task is to develop energy in its territory through enabling mechanisms. It is not good to focus on development in such a way that it adopts some planning, declarant documents, because the main source, however taken, comes only from the source of electricity and not from state budget resources or, as mentioned, from European resources. This is just a matter of resources deriving from the activities themselves, and I think that the country must determine only the direction to which it should go and then, within this direction, confirm certain programmes in this structure and claim responsibility if these programmes are not implemented. The task of the State is not to incorporate mechanisms that prevent the implementation of these plans in this area. One of such built-in barriers is the amendment to the Regulation which extended the Natura area to the Central Sava. That was April this year. One government correspondence meeting has been adopted, but this regulation has a direct impact on the fact that hydropower plants in the Central Sava will not take place at the rate they could, and that an additional brake will be given to this process. Something like that applies to Mura and so on. The task of the State is not to take such decisions, even when it comes to compliance with European rules, to avoid in some way and to identify those areas which are strategic for the development of infrastructure in both energy and other areas and to avoid such things. But that's what happened in this case. I think that even if we had a resolution document that could be said to him as it is now written in the law, or a national energy programme, something essential would not have happened if it were not of an operational nature. I am afraid that even such stunts as happened in the case of the investment TES 6 would not be prevented on the basis of this. The profession reminds us of a number of shortcomings in this law. It reminds us that in an important part of the law it is only about solutions that follow not only European regulation and the implementation of what the European Commission requires of us, but that they are solutions that are not in the direction of protecting the customer or consumer, which I have already talked about, but that they want to establish in some hidden way, as a result, in a certain perspective, a more or less monopolistic position on the electricity and natural gas market, which is contrary to what the directives require of us. It also points out that in one part of the law this law is adapted to individual stakeholders because it creates the conditions for monopolisation of an already marketed area. They also fly towards reducing revenues from the state budget by energy traders, flying towards increasing costs to end-users, flying in the direction that there is insufficient emphasis on providing dedicated resources for the development of the electricity distribution network and so on. They also fly in the direction that the path that is built into this law concerning fragmentation in the field of distribution is not right that this is the wrong way. So the profession here has a lot of challenges to respond to and define in a relatively short time, but I think these are things that should be written in this law differently. These dilemmas would be most easily clarified if the bill's proponent in further proceedings, if this law were to pass this first sieve, simply put on the table the five largest, medium-sized, smallest customers and their position today and their position after the implementation of this law, priced. However, in the area of electricity and natural gas, it would probably be easier to talk, and it would probably be right to get a list of these "invest" programmes, or whatever we call them, of the long-term development plans of these companies for the next 10-year period, with their current exposure to funding sources in these individual projects. Then it would probably be easier to talk if we could get some direction forward, for the next 20 years, even easier. In every law we receive in the National Assembly, even though we talk about the need to be more user-friendly, to be less cost-effective, it happens exactly the other way around – it means more administration, more bureaucracy and more costs to the user. That's the way it is with this law. These energy cards, which will represent not such a small cost, are intended for – what, by content? Will this building, which will now have this card to be made by a certified expert who is registered with the Ministry – the Ministry gives him a licence, be kept at the Ministry register of these cards. There's a bunch of regulations in this law that are totally unnecessary. Will the one with the energy card have any added value from this out? Will he get any grants, have a smaller property tax or something? Will this card, as it is now, be on the washing machine and on the fridge? The problem is that it must then be removed so as not to disturb the user in the space in which it is installed. These things are still in this marriage. Energy permit and building permit — why? Two separate procedures, completely separate. Why is it necessary to have two separate procedures? Even more, in some cases, energy must be definitive before the construction process is under way. All of this postpones the admission procedures. There's something similar about larger systems before they even fit into space and so on. So all of this distances us from what I believe is just some ambition to do – a more operational system that will allow conditions for upgrading in a short time also in an investment sense. That's not gonna happen with this marriage. A special story is this energy agency. Why does there have to be something special about this system? We have the Law on Public Agencies, which is regulated by European regulations, and we know what a public agency is, independent and so on. There is no need for us to name a world in the National Assembly. The conditions for the Director are laid down so that five of them can meet the conditions in Slovenia. But also the countries around us know – within the framework of the Office for, I don't know, competition protection is also that part. Why wouldn't he be with us? Do we need a special agency to discuss this? I don't know why there is so much emphasis on this area. Of course, the Agency is independent, it works professionally, and there is no need for the highest policy with this agency to be dealt with in the National Assembly. There is also no reasoned reason why ELES, Borzen and I do not know who else from the management of SDH, why these companies outside if we have decided on a uniform concept of government management. Why? There is no argument that the government has a hand over these two companies. Not to say, as far as bureaucracy is concerned, these locals were the LEPs, the local energy programmes, and now they are LEKs, the local energy concepts. One famous story that cost a congregation a few tens of thousands of euros. Experts who could do so were also selected on the list — for what? So that they could apply for invitations because otherwise it was a condition that they could not, and so that they could make spatial plans that they would do anyway in their right mind. Additional paperwork, additional concepts on which some serve successfully. This is why the processes are prolonged, and it is now an opportunity for all these anomalies to be eliminated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as has already been said, this law has no support at this stage. It does not have to have it under these provisions. If he survives this sieve, however, it depends on how and how the amendments regarding our support will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u374	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u375	I must conclude that in this energy law, too, we are missing one of Slovenia's key opportunities at my discretion. I believe that agreement on anything in this country is difficult to achieve. But the field where I see that this consensus can be quickly reached is a vision of green Slovenia. Green is our landscape, green is not least the jerseys of our basketball players, football players, but I think that this country is also extremely green because of its natural heritage and, above all, I believe that our people are firmly committed to wanting and imagining a green future, which will be green and sustainable, also bright. This does not only affect our environmental objectives, climate objectives, although this should be at the forefront of our policies today. Also because, according to all indicators, Slovenia is one of those countries that may be, for example, due to the process of climate change, among the countries that will be affected. You are not affected in the far future, but you are affected today and here, and we see this today, for example, after the marked droughts in the summer periods, and the time we live in today when, say, last Saturday early in November, we woke up at 18 degrees Celsius. Unfortunately, this energy law shows that in this country, in the field of energy, we do not know how to set development goals that would be general, following such a vision of social development. In this context, I should like to join some estimates of the predecessors who say that this law seems to be written more than on the skin in terms of the general development objectives of this country, including the climate, written on the skin of certain energy interests. I regret this because clearly these relatively narrow energy interests prevail over some of the general interests of the country. In some interesting statistics, this is clearly confirmed. A number of comments were received in the public debate. The NGO Focus, one of the highly active non-governmental organisations in the field of climate change, made some comments, and the percentage of consideration is stopped at 5%. 5 % of its comments were taken into account. On the other hand, the generation of energy has also made a number of comments, and the percentage of taking into account its comments is 40. These are flat-rate reviews based on the responses published on the Ministry's website. What is most problematic is whether this law, as a system act, must once again last for at least a decade, pave the way for this country to be actively guided in the direction of organised low-carbon society, which will also draw on a source of competitiveness for its future economic and social development. We are a country with extremely rich natural resources in this area: wood, water, sun, geothermal potential and so on. Let's see what happens to support renewable energy in this law. I understand that in the past some mistakes have been made in this area. At some point, the prices of technology – photovoltaics is a typical example – are high, but because everyone has seen opportunities in this area on a global scale, the price of technology has started to drop rapidly. The expected time for the return on investments was, for example, 15 years in 2009, shortly thereafter, within just a few months, and as a result of the decline in technology prices, this expected time fell to 8 years. In Germany, calculations show that no support scheme for the economy of photovoltaic investments will be needed in 2019, over 5 years. What have we done in Slovenia? Because the regulator – this is the ministry – has been asleep for some time, has not adapted to support the decline in technology prices, we are now faced with virtually detonating the support scheme for the next 20 years. That's the first thing that's problematic, but it's a consequence of history. Secondly, in these circumstances, the Ministry of Energy Law sets out a new concept of promoting renewable energy sources, which will be based on a call for proposals and criteria that are mainly econometric – they draw on competitiveness in the economy of a specific project – and completely change the concept of capacity-building for renewable energy sources. What does that mean? In order to effectively have a large aggregate, a large field of solar cells, instead of thousands and thousands of small decentralised units, which would create local opportunities and quality local jobs based on individual private investments, not necessarily on the investment of large energy conglomerates. The next point I would like to stress is how to provide a source of resources, and this is also a point that is very disturbing in this energy law. We have avoided applying the polluter's wage principle and, with a resource to promote and support the building of renewable energy capacity, have burdened the one that causes adverse side effects on the environment in energy production. No, we've decided that this price will be paid by the end user. We are consumers of electricity and not our washing machine. I therefore look forward to Friday's public debate. I believe that it will show that this position, which I am presenting here today, is not lonely, but that it has support in an extremely well-organised civil society among environmental NGOs, which I believe are one of the few in Slovenia who can set general development goals ahead of the interests of individual energy operators. By the way, an international study produced in Switzerland shows that only one third of the energy needs can be produced on Swiss roofs alone. Switzerland is less radiant with the sun than Slovenia. Will we recognize in this, in our wood and in our waters the potential to make a decisive movement here? I don't think so. Also, discussions that cannot be directly linked to this energy law, such as the holding of Slovenian power plants, the issue of its financial stability due to known decisions made in the past, suggest that other important investments in the use of renewable energy sources are being suspended in the indefinite future, as is the case with the medium Sava. For example, the Kozjak hydroelectric power plant above Maribor, on the other hand, the chain of potential hydroelectric power plants on Mura and so on. I am afraid that this law also once again predominates the concept that is so characteristic of holding Slovenian power plants. The money we create with renewable energy flows into other technologies that should be put to an end slowly, so I hope that Friday's debate will, in particular, contribute to the improvement of this law. I think it may be an important common finding that the law needs improvement, but I would like to see that these improvements not only raise the question of whether I come from Velenje, Krske or Maribor, but mainly the awareness that this industry is national and economically important and strategically. Moreover, it largely decides whether Slovenia will be able to achieve our social goals, which will have a major impact on the quality of life of our people in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Bosic, please proceed procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u377	Thank you. Procedurally, according to procedure. I wanted a correction. The colour of footballers' jerseys is purple.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u378	Thank you very much for this repair. Mr. Tinker Bell, procedurally. Even in that sense?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u379	No, no, no. Thank you very much. I have raised some questions and may not have been clear enough in my implementation, but I would like to ask, as the Secretary of State replied to his colleague Visiak on certain issues – I think it would be right for the Secretary of State to answer those things that I have highlighted. It seems to me that these are important areas that may not seem so important in the strategic part of the law, but they are important for the average citizen, the average user. I mentioned these energy cards, and I asked what their purpose is, why. The law provides for them within a relatively short period of time. You know, this is based on the experience we have from the past, many times just a declaration that does not have any excessive utility value. However, if we add to this that the whole machinery is envisaged for the production of these cards, that a full register at the Ministry is provided for the maintenance of the records of these cards. The licenses of the people who can do this are obtained at the Ministry. We have a license from an independent energy card maker. We have an independent air-conditioning review expert's license. Don't mind me, but things remind me of these stories about chimneys.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u380	No offense. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u381	I'm talking. I'd like to ask you for an answer to these questions. For example, to clean a chimney, a chimney has to have a license or even a concession. There's no need to build this chimney. What's the logic here? There's something like that here. He says all these experts belong to regulated professions. The coalition has committed itself to lowering the level of these regulated professions. Reduced, not magnified. Then I talked about the local energy concept. It used to be a program. Why? What for? I would ask the Secretary of State whether they believe that this is absolutely necessary, or cannot be simplified, in particular, whether it is possible to make this regulation more user-friendly in such a way that all these services will cost less and, last but not least, an important issue in the timing of the implementation of individual projects: why two administrative permits, energy and construction permits, why ten years for an object that operates? So I would ask if the Secretary of State could answer these questions that have been raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Procedurally has Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u383	Madam Vice-President, I will ask you again to prevent the use of business terms for discussion. That wasn't business. It was an abuse of the rules of procedure. Secretary of State, the government can answer whenever they want. It is not true that he has to answer and that someone here can force a businessman to answer him. It's not okay. It's not okay. You have time and debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. True, the government can sign up for the word whenever it wants to. But I would ask all Members and Members of Parliament, even though it is time for us to stick to the procedure. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u385	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure discusses who can participate in the work of the Government in the National Assembly. If we have a first reading of the law here and important questions are raised, then it is normally expected that representatives of the Government participate in the work of the National Assembly and that the questions raised by Members also give reasoned answers. If they know them. But there is no need for such precious people to come to the National Assembly to spend exactly five hours on the agenda. [[advertising from the hall]] I was here, it was an introduction, but the answers to the questions after Mr Chernač spoke were not, but he set important dilemmas for us and also for those concerned by this law. I think it is the duty of any civil servant who comes to the National Assembly to answer the questions raised to him in the consideration of the agenda item. In the National Assembly you introduced the practice that there are almost no ministers in the National Assembly, just for a photo term. It is not, it is not today in the general debate, it will not be held tomorrow at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee that has discussed it and so on. He doesn't need to come. But it would be good to come, because this is, if I understand from the introduction of the Secretary of State, a key issue in the energy field, which corrects the kicks from Drnovskov's governments forward, from Minister Kopač and another minister, Mrs Radic, and so on. Everyone didn't do anything to you, that's what they said. Now we have something here that is essentially different, terminological, substantive, functional, and when the question is asked, it is only necessary to answer this – if the Government has come to the National Assembly to answer. But if the government has come for any other reason, then you can also say that the government is not here to answer, but it is here to not answer and to wait for the debate to pass and to go home. We have not proposed a general debate on this law in order for this to happen. We have proposed that, on the basis of opinions, debates, concerns, we should be given the right answers. This is a normal expectation, given that it says "participation of the government" not that they are actively sitting here. It says "cooperation." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u386	Thank you very much. I am confident that the Secretary of State, as he already has, will also be involved in the debate further and that you will receive all the answers you want. I would now like to ask if we can continue the debate. Mr. Meh, you have procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u387	Every day this week, when he runs out of time, Mr Tanko is doing what he is doing tonight – he is asking business questions that have nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, but he is discussing. The Secretary of State was here, he was responding for 20 minutes, but Tank wasn't here and he wasn't listening. Now he's asking business questions about why the Secretary of State is here. I'm protesting. It's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Once again, let us all gather together to hold this meeting until 10 a.m. Can we proceed with the debate? Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u389	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have been in this Chamber almost all the time since the opening presentation forward, only to get the material, Mr Meh. If you don't believe I've been here, I suggest you suspend the session and rotate the video of the presence in the National Assembly. Because I do not afford such cheap discredits, regardless of the fact that it is the oldest Member of the National Assembly. I've been here, I've been watching, and I'm expecting answers. That's why I came to the meeting, and I insist on this late hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u390	She'd ask us to calm our passions. As I have already said, the Secretary of State is applying for the floor, and I'm sure you'll get the answers. Let's stick to it – when it is a replica, it is a replica, if it is a procedural proposal, it is a procedural proposal when it is a debate. Please continue, if possible, if we agree [[...]] Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have a procedural procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u391	Thank you very much, Madam President. We've been getting involved practically all week with these procedural proposals, but I really want to once again protest loud and clear against this work coming from my left, by the opposition SDS party. They constantly use and abuse the rules of procedure, and the procedural proposal is also misused so that, I don't know, they flock when you step on their tail to apologize for what they've done, what they haven't done. I think it is right that, as President-in-Office, such procedural proposals should be suspended in due time, as they can be seen when they are exploiting and abuse the rules of procedure. By the way, while I'm at it, we all know together, and that was the practice in the past that government representatives report to the debate whenever they want. From the introductions of the distinguished Secretary of State, I believe that we have been able to understand many things, including the fact that the law knows that it has been trained enough to respond to many of the allegations coming from the SDS. Finally, the expert team of the Ministry, which, by the way, prepared and participated in this law, has with it, unlike what was done in the previous government, when the law was written by a god in which external experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u392	Thank you very much. We all agree. I think we all feel the same way about procedural proposals and replicas. I pointed out earlier that we should stick to the rules of procedure. Mrs. Majda Potter, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u393	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I suggest that you take note of Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows you to give a warning, to withdraw the word and then the worst thing – removal, because I believe that what is happening to us in these three days, the members of the opposition are interfering with the work of the National Assembly. I would also like to point out that this is also the case in Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that a letter can be given to a member or another participant at a meeting if he speaks, although the chairman has not given him a word if it goes to the speaker in the word - and I now come to the Chief - if he is talking about a matter which is not on the agenda or if in any other way he violates the order of the meeting and the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. The provisions of this Rules of Procedure are clear. Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure states when a business or procedural question raises a procedural question. In this respect, there would be another proposal. Since I have been in Parliament for quite some time, and I also know that customs are very different and I have had the opportunity to observe different government teams, it might be right if the National Assembly, because it is carrying out statistics of all the performances, when I have seen how time is spent to discuss, at the same time, how the government is using time, how time individual parliamentary groups — would come to this — and also how much time someone spends on procedural issues. Then we could see that the Prime Minister of the previous government has ever answered the question of the matter by means of a petitioner or a zero-pointer to answer arrogantly, and would avoid these comparisons when the current government representatives were supposed to be incompetent, they would not speak, they would not be properly presented. I would like to point out that here we saw government representatives in the previous term, in the previous government, from the previous government here [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, from the former government of Ivan Janša, in this mandate, who sat here and remained silent. I've said three things that are of an extremely procedural nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u394	Thank you very much for this proposal. As far as reminders are concerned, I think we can do without this extreme measure so much sense in this House that we can bring them to an end without warning. However, Mr Žnidar wanted a procedural proposal. Then perhaps we would have come to the debate slowly. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u395	Your Honor! I notice we've had a whole bunch of protestors in this room all week. Madam Vice-President, I would like you to point out that this Chamber is not intended to carry out the protests. That's where they're going across the street. Please let them know. This hall is designed to focus on the profession, constructive debates and the well-being that we can bring to our country, not on eternal protests.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u396	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. We all know the rules of procedure and know what a replica is, what a procedural proposal is. Mr Tanko was declared a procedural proposal before Mr Montenegro. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u397	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the application of Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that a reminder may be given to a member or another participant at a meeting if he speaks, although the chairman has not given him the floor, I find that I have received the word, and after that you cannot do so to me. Next, if he reaches out to the speaker — I didn’t reach out to anyone because I had the floor. Further, when it comes to a question that is not on the agenda – I particularly wanted answers to the questions at the agenda item. I did not ask the representative of the Government of answers on the result in the sports lottery, but on the questions or topics that were opened and not answered by counterpart Cernač. In any other way, Mrs Potrata, I did not interfere with the order of the sitting, in any way. If you are already concerned that you should receive one of the measures, you know, I am no longer in primary school or high school when warnings are being issued, because I have spoken exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I wanted answers to the questions raised, the substantive questions concerning the agenda item, and they have not been answered. The minimum standard in the National Assembly is that, if asked, someone answers, even if he comes to the meeting solely to defend the proposal adopted by the government. I note that in this mandate, in this reference to a mandate, a meeting will take place in this part of the term of office to sit down and not to answer, and time will pass. That's wrong. All I suggest is that you give us, at the meeting of the National Assembly, good-quality answers to the questions that are being asked, not in three hours, when the matter is clouded and taken away. The government came with a pretty strong team to respond, and it's only right that we expect answers from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u398	Thank you very much. You will receive the answers when we can continue the debate. Mrs. Majda Potrat, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u399	However, when I cited Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, I specifically said that when we face abuse of procedural issues by the SDS, we are in a situation where we are in another way violating the order of the meeting and the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not state that either the Minister or the Prime Minister or any of the representatives of the Ministry must respond in a manner that would make the representative of the opposition satisfied because it is impossible at the beginning. This insistence by constantly talking about not responding if there was no response to the content of meeting the expectations of the procedural proposal that it has been making all the time, and this is a disruption to the work of the National Assembly and the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. If someone here speaks and no one responds to the question of procedural questions when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure, there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that any representative has to answer. I recall that when SDS presidents of working bodies and when defending their ministers, they generally referred to the non-responsibility of answering. I advocate only that all rules of procedure shall apply always and for all. Someone can't force someone. This is an obstacle to the work of the National Assembly if one asks a procedural question three times in a row with the same requirement, which does not have a point of reference in the Rules of Procedure. May Mr Tanko quote me on an article that states that, in the context of the general discussion, a government representative must answer and answer all questions immediately for each Member. There's no such thing anywhere. In particular, a public presentation of opinions on this law is announced on Friday. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u400	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. I think the procedural proposal was also made by Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u401	Madam President, I think what we have just heard is indeed a disturbance in the work of the National Assembly. Today, Mrs Potrata has notified herself for the second or third time to a procedural proposal without saying anything procedural. In the meantime, she also made a point when she said that the Secretary of State had already answered the questions raised. I took note of the procedural question precisely because I wanted to draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of the Government's representatives being here to answer the dilemmas and questions raised in the debate, because otherwise there is no point in writing the Rules of Procedure that they should sit here. Then we don't have to, then we'd write in the rules that those seats there are empty and dot. The purpose of the government's representatives sitting here is to monitor the debate and to respond to the issues raised in this debate. Since that was not the answer, and because I saw that the Secretary of State would like to respond to it, at least as I understood it, I recalled this provision of the Rules of Procedure in the context of the procedural proposal, and I did not violate the procedures in any way. However, all the interventions that then took place were, indeed, contrary to the procedure and the rules of procedure and were totally unnecessary. Those lies of Barbara Žgajner Tavš have no sense of answering. Some people just can't get out of their skin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u402	Thank you very much. Indeed, all the answers could be received and the debate could also take place if it was not interrupted by procedural proposals. And we've got two more. Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u403	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! In view of the fact that the issue that we have been dealing with for some time now has also been ongoing at the time of yesterday's consideration of the previous agenda item or a few points back, the government and the government's presence – the government, as a proposer and also at the conclusion of the college, where the agenda and the timetable are set, is required to provide a supplementary explanation of the proposal. Then the government’s representatives decide directly whether to assess whether it is necessary to complete individual questions or to answer or to clarify any misunderstandings. That is why I think that it is not right for us Members and Members to ask any government here to respond, because the Government, within the time available – to say that the Government has 60 minutes of time here as a proponent, and something has already been spent – to assess whether it wants and whether there is an urgent need for further justification in the first reading. We have all been together for quite some time in the National Assembly, and we know what the first debate means, and that the government has often wanted to listen to Members and Members to the proposals made, to complete the changes and so on. Then, many times, some solutions are found at the home work body at the second reading and also at the meeting of the National Assembly, and many more are available. Therefore, I would suggest that, as far as we can, we are patient and patient, and we are not in any way offensive in the way that someone is lying. I can't accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u404	Thank you very much. That was my suggestion, too. Now we're repeating ourselves. Mr Tanko also had a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u405	Thank you very much. The Government's presentation is made up of two parts at a point such as this. First, the government has an opening presentation, which was a time of 5 minutes, and then the government reserved an hour to respond to the debate of MEPs and Members. When Mr Cernač has finished, it would make sense, because he has raised a number of important questions for the Government to answer these dilemmas. However, I must respond to Mrs Potrato because she said that the Government would respond and that with the Government's reply, we would never be satisfied. It's hard to say. The government representative hasn't replied at all, we haven't even gotten to the content yet. To find out if we're different in position, we didn't even come because there was no government response. I think such judgments, Mrs. Potrata, which you share further, and such doctrines are very incorrect. You don't have to do this. If we do not agree with the Government’s opinion, it is likely that one of our colleagues who understands the energy field a little bit, because they have either done the job or have already done the job, may ask, explain, or establish some communication. By your conduct and by protecting the government from answering and responding when it wants to, you are doing something unusual — preventing the confrontation of opinions from even identifying what the differences are. I'd like to ask you not to be so protective of our government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-13-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u406	Thank you very much. I now find that we could really go back to all the answers you wanted, but we could not have had a discussion in these last minutes of our meeting at all. That's why I'm breaking up the 18th item of the agenda right now. I also interrupt the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow, 14 November 2013, at 10 a.m. Have a nice evening. Good luck!
