ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dragutin Mate, Franz Pukšič, Branko Smodiš, Mag. Matthew Tonin, Peter Wilphan, and Mitja Merchol. I invited the representative of the State Election Commission and the candidate for the MP of the Magi to the meeting. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and Dr Jožef Kunič on the matter with which an extension of the agenda is proposed, as well as representatives of the Government. I welcome all those present once again. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday, 3 April 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting be extended by the mandate-holders under A: The appointment of candidates to act as Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members in place of Members serving in the Government under B: The determination to terminate the term of office of a member of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia appointed under the sixth subparagraph of Article 6 of the Radio Television Act of 17 of Slovenia, under C: Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to identify and evaluate the functioning of extremist groups, and under C: Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system. You received the proposal for enlargement on 10 April 2013. I ask if the President of the Commission wishes to speak as a representative of the proposal for enlargement. [[He doesn't want to.]] There are no government representatives right now. I ask if any of the representatives of the groups of Members would like a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as A1. the agenda item, as soon as the agenda is set. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to it and the addition adopted. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to A1. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Appointment of Candidates, which, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, will act as Members instead of Members serving as Members in the Government Since Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič and Mr Tamar Vont are not able to act as Members of Parliament while serving as State secretaries in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, the State Election Commission forwarded to the National Assembly a decision finding that the right to replace the said Members and Members at a time when they are serving as State secretaries in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, mag. I'm holding Bon Klanjšček and Dr. Joseph Kunic. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed by the Commission on Elections, which informed the Assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. Does the rapporteur of the commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask if the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. [[They don't want to.]] Does anyone want a word from the Members and Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision. At a time when a Member and a Member who has taken office in the Government in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members cannot act as a Member and a Member, they shall perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from today: instead of Gaspar Gaspar Mišić mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, born 18. Seven. 1954, residing at Castle 9, Kromberk, and instead of Tamara Vonta Dr. Jožef Kunič, born 6. 1. 1946, residing on the road in Zgornji log 31, Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I'm an emissary colleague of mags. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and Dr Jožef Kunič invite you to join us and meet their seats. / applause/ I wish them to act successfully as Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Conclusion on the termination of the term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed pursuant to the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Mr Jernej Pikalo is a member of the RTV Programme Board of Slovenia by letter dated 22. 3. 2013 informed the National Assembly that the functions of the Minister for which he was appointed were incompatible 20. 3. 2013 and a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, and asked the National Assembly to begin the search procedure for a replacement member of the Council. In this regard, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 18, third indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the following decision be taken. It is concluded that Dr Jernej Pikalo no longer fulfils the conditions for appointment as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council as a minister who is incompatible with the function of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and therefore terminates his term as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed under the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the Composition and Appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish and assess the functioning of extremist groups The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Does the rapporteur want a word for the presentation? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do any of the Members and Members want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does anyone want a word on behalf of a group of Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do any of the Members and Members want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, that's on a defensive proposal for a constitutional amendment law 148. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft constitutional law was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the National Assembly and received with the report of the Commission and the correction of the report. In order to further explain the report and the draft constitutional law, I give the floor to the President of the Constitutional Commission, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In the context of the constitutional amendment procedure, the National Assembly adopted at its 10th extraordinary meeting a position on the draft Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution. On the basis of the decision establishing the section, the working text of the draft constitutional law was drawn up by a group of experts drawn up by legal and other experts. The majority of the members of the section proposed that Article 148 of the Constitution should be amended by the first part of the draft constitutional law and that the section II should specify how the constitutional amendment should be implemented. Pursuant to Rule 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission adopted a proposal for a constitutional law which is the subject of today's debate and decision and was adopted on 9. 5. 2012. If we take a closer look at the text prepared, we can see that the first paragraph of Article 148, according to the current text of the Constitution, is a kind of editorial correction in the text, which also has concrete substantive implications. The text of income in the current text of the Constitution has been corrected to receive. The general part of the state budget balance consists of three balance sheets, three parts: balance sheet A, balance sheet B and balance sheet C. The concept of income and expenditure used in the Constitution is intended to apply only to balance sheet A and the current Constitution proposal uses the concept of income and expenditure to date all three balance sheets. In view of everything, the expert commission finally decided that the new diction should be more appropriate. The appropriateness of this solution has been subject to controversy all the time between the opposition and the coalition. The second paragraph of the draft constitutional law follows the adopted position and writes down the fiscal rule and its essence at constitutional level. The revenue and expenditure of the budget from the country must be balanced in the medium term, without any debt, or the revenue must exceed the expenditure. This paragraph also allows for derogation from the fiscal rule, which is permissible only in exceptional circumstances for the State. Experts have taken into account the ratified Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union, which we briefly call a fiscal pact, when writing the text of the article. The original proposed text of Article 148 included five paragraphs. The present 148th article, which is before you today, contains four paragraphs, since the Constitutional Commission has deleted the third paragraph by adopting the amendment. The proposed and then deleted third paragraph of the draft text was disputed for a two-thirds constitutional majority. The Section has placed the Fiscal Council in its constitutional text as a politically neutral body, which, before adopting state budgets, would give opinions on compliance with the rules laid down in Article 148 of the Constitution and later in the implementing law. At the meeting of the Constitutional Commission, when adopting the final text of the draft constitution you have before you today, the amendment, which deleted the third paragraph in question and thus the Fiscal Council, was adopted. The present third paragraph of the constitutional text provides that the National Assembly shall adopt an implementing law for the full introduction of a fiscal rule into our legal order by a two-thirds majority, with a two-thirds majority of all Members. The Fiscal Rule Act will have to define the way and timeframe for the implementation of the fiscal rule principle, as well as the criteria for determining exceptional circumstances and the manner in which they occur. The latter will be a very important element of the new law, as, as the debate on the Constitutional Commission has shown, it will also allow for large state investments to be credited. The section, although not specifically responsible for this, also prepared an explanation of the proposal for a constitutional law in order to present some possible solutions to the provisions of this very important law. The last paragraph of Article 148 of the Constitution remains practically the same, irrespective of the amendment of the text. The members of the section were not entirely uniform in their work with regard to the proposed text of Article 148. A member, an expert from Dr Lojze Ude, objected to the amendment of this Article of the Constitution as he considered that the adoption of the said ratified international treaty and further legal arrangements, as envisaged, were sufficient for the implementation of the fiscal rule in the Slovenian legal order. In doing so, he based his position on Article 8 of the Constitution, which provides that ratified and published international treaties in Slovenia are to be applied directly. He also opposed the fiscal rule itself, which can be read more in the report of the Constitutional Commission. Member of the expert committee, Mag. Kamnar and Dr. Stannik objected to the presentation and placement of the Fiscal Council on the constitutional level, while the other three members were experts, Dr. Jerovšek, mag. Petrovich and Dr. Masten, supported the solution in all five points. Just as the section members had a number of concerns and did not fully agree on the writing of the fiscal rule into the Constitution, this record has been accompanied by extensive discussions on the Constitutional Commission, which have referred substantively to the above-mentioned and other issues. Proponents of entering a fiscal rule into the Constitution argued in particular the necessity of adopting a fiscal rule in the Constitution, as this would result from a ratified international treaty. The adoption of a fiscal rule in Slovenia's legal order does not in any way mean the establishment of an neoliberal concept of economic growth savings, but rather a factor of discipline that would protect Slovenia from becoming an economic and, consequently, a politically limited sovereign state, but also an uncontrolled debt. The development of the country, in their view, can only be based on the fact that consumption is adjusted to the remuneration, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that future generations do not pay the consequences of our indebtedness. The current legislation, which summarized some of the fiscal pact's solutions, was generally not respected in previous governments. The amendment to Article 148 in the opinion of its proponents, including in the direction of writing down the fiscal rule into the Constitution, does not mean preventing referendums. In their view, it would be the non-acceptance of such entry that would endanger the social state and lead to the possible financial collapse of Slovenia, which would most likely affect people from the social bottom. The opponents of the amendment, on the other hand, stressed that, in addition to the already ratified international treaties, it was sufficient to write down the fiscal rule only in the implementing law. The writing of the fiscal rule in the constitution is not a fiscal measure in their opinion and in no way solves the difficult financial situation in Slovenia, but it is based on the assumption of mistrust in every single government and parliament. In their view, the record gives support to the Constitutional Court to prevent referendums on financial laws required by the social partners who are not satisfied with austerity measures. In their view, the fiscal rule is the theoretical basis of the restrictive austerity policy launched in the EU by conservative right-wing political circles, which are to blame for the current economic situation. The country's indebtedness in times of financial crisis is, according to them, essential for beneficial investments and investments that promote development and recovery from the crisis. Members of the Constitutional Commission shall be led by President Gregor Virant at the time of the debate on 9. 5. The requested two-thirds majority of all members have adopted a proposal for a constitutional law as set out, together with an editorial amendment of 18. 8. The Constitutional Commission has proposed that, following the debate, the National Assembly should vote and adopt the first section of the proposed constitutional law amending Article of the Constitution, as well as the second section which provides for the implementation of the constitutional law and finally the constitutional law as a whole. Days 20. 7. At the 16th extraordinary meeting, following the decision of the National Assembly, it was decided that the debate and decision on this amendment of the Constitution should be transferred to one of the following meetings. This was the situation until today, until the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly submitted by the SDS Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Thank you for the additional explanation. In order to give an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have before us the material of the Constitutional Commission with a proposal to amend Article 148 of the Constitution, which introduces a fundamental fiscal rule into the Constitution. The proposal for a constitutional law provides that the fiscal rule should be applied for the first time to prepare the country's budgets for 2015. The material was prepared by the Constitutional Commission in May 2012, almost a year ago. The material under consideration today is the first step towards meeting the commitments under Article 3 of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union, ratified by Slovenia at the end of April 2012. Amendments to the Constitution are to be followed by an implementing constitutional law. Both steps must be completed by the end of this year. There is no doubt that Slovenia needs a clear fiscal rule as a basic starting point for the management of responsible public financial policy. There is also no doubt that by the end of this year we need to prepare all necessary legal adjustments so that the new economic governance rules can be implemented as of 1 January 2014, as set out in the above-mentioned Treaty. Taking into account the importance of recording the fiscal rule in the basic legal acts of the State, we must draw attention to the macroeconomic circumstances and assessments of further economic development available to the Constitutional Commission when it laid down the deadline for the implementation of the new rule – this is the preparation of the 2015 budget – and the change in these circumstances and assessments. As a starting point, I should state the real growth data of gross social product from the forecast published by Umar in January 2012. At that time, data and estimates showed that in 2012 we will achieve a slight economic growth of 0.2% of GDP. For 2013, the estimates already pointed to an additional recovery and growth of 2%. As early as the spring forecast of Umar in March 2012 showed lower results – 0.9% GDP decline in 2012 and only 1.2% growth in 2013 – while data for 2014 were also published for the first time, pointing to 2.2% GDP growth in 2014. These are the data and assessments available to the Constitutional Commission when it prepared the final text of the proposal for a constitutional law. This year's data and estimates by Umar show a more worrying picture. GDP decline in 2012 was 2.3%. For 2013, Umar predicts an additional decrease of 1.9% in the company product and a slight increase of 0.2% for 2014. This year's 2015 estimate shows GDP growth of 1.2%. I only presented the indicator of real GDP growth. Similarly, other macroeconomic indicators could be reviewed. In view of these indicators, it is important to note that the macroeconomic circumstances in which the deadline for the implementation of the fiscal rule and our understanding of the budgetary balance have changed significantly in the meantime, and therefore the question arises whether the objective of balancing the budget in 2015 is realistic and feasible without any additional negative effects on economic growth or other macroeconomic indicators. The Ministry has already begun to draw up the necessary calculations and to draw up the implementing rules of the constitutional law. The Government will notify the National Assembly without delay of its findings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for the introductory explanation. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all present on behalf of the National Gazette! The second president of the United States, John Adams, said that there were two ways to conquer and enslave the nation. One with the sword, the other with the debt. The key difference is that the nation employs others with the sword, and it becomes enslaved with debt. Under the sword, he can be freed proudly, but in debt, he can only disgracefully break the word. Political parties in Slovenia, I am convinced that we are aware and our common goal is to balance public finances in a way that will enable us not to break the word. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution for the introduction of the fiscal rule was tabled already in mid-March last year. An expert group was appointed to participate in the drafting of the text. The Constitutional Commission confirmed the second phase of the procedure last May. Due to the lack of support between the parties, we have worked together to reach an agreement, including during parliamentary holidays. We tried to compromise the drafting of the implementing law. We didn't make it. At that time, and even today, we underline the importance of each government's commitment to stable public finances, especially at a time when this is difficult, not a legal commitment that each coalition can narrow down slightly in its own way, and not an international commitment that is being breached as easily as the Maastricht restrictions, but the commitment of all political options enshrined in the highest legal act to the Constitution. Last April, we passed a large majority of the law on the ratification of the Intergovernmental Treaty on the Fiscal Pact. The second point of Article 3 of this Treaty provides that its rules shall be effective in the domestic law of the States Parties as binding and permanent, if possible of a constitutional nature. We supported and supported the fiscal rule. He was then defended by the government, last night by the opposition. It would be right and only for everyone to defend it today. For smart and important things, it doesn't matter who proposes them. The proposed fiscal principle, which commands that the revenue and expenditure of budgets must be balanced in the medium term, without any debt, clearly falls within the general basic principles. The main reason for putting such a principle in the constitution is that Slovenia is obviously only able to provide or provide long-term sustainable public finances. It is true, however, that putting a fiscal rule in the constitution is not a magic wand. In itself, this will not solve our country's public financial problems, but it is an important stone in the mosaic of measures to be taken. If we are not able to do so as soon as possible, it may be better to leave our city to someone who has it. After taking steps towards greater fiscal sustainability, we believe that an even greater political issue will have to be addressed soon: How big a country do we want citizens of Slovenia? What do we expect from her? Can we maintain it without putting the burden of its funding on our offspring? Members and Members of the Civil Code are also prepared to vote today to record the budget balance in the highest legal act. We stress, however, that the worst signal that politics can send from this Chamber today would be that we are not united, that we are fighting and that we reject the introduction of fiscal rules into the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president, distinguished secretary of state! Today, the Slovenian People's Party would be delighted to vote in favour of the adoption of a fiscal rule if there were 60 votes between Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, thus giving a clear signal to the international financial public today, and finally also accepting our commitment to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, which we have written down when we ratified the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. In our own words, today we would write in the Constitution that we will spend as much as we create in the future. That this is not really evidence of information that is publicly known to us, even publicly available. At the end of 2008, Slovenia owed 8 billion, at the end of 2009, for 12 billion 450 million, at the end of 2010 for 13 billion 737 million, at the end of 2011 for 16 billion 954 million and at the end of last year for 19 billion 189 million. In other words, during this time we increased our debt in Slovenia from EUR 4 000 to Slovenia and Slovenia to almost EUR 10 000 to Slovenia and Slovenia. Moreover, we paid EUR 300 million in interest in 2008, and we paid over EUR 600 million last year. Again, we paid 150 euros per person or 350 euros in last year. If we had a debt at the end of last year's 7% interest rate, if almost Slovenia was in debt today, we would have paid as much as a billion EUR 400 million interest, 700 euros per person, or as much as 20% of the revenue in the state budget. In view of these figures and of these trends, we must, in particular, take certain measures on our own. The key action is to adopt the rules of the game in the field of finance into the Slovenian Constitution. We are expected to do so, as we have heard this week and yesterday, by the President of the European Commission, the financial markets and the international public, who is the one who is giving us the credits we are currently financing this huge financial debt. For this reason, it is imperative that we make a serious and very quick decision in Parliament and take measures so that we do not go forward as we have done in the field of finance in recent years. This fiscal rule is the rule we'd settle it with. It is more than obvious that all political parties today are aware that we must by no means make this political fiasco and today in the National Assembly reject the adoption of a constitutional law to introduce this financial rule into our constitution. Apparently, some parties still have problems supporting such a law. As we have heard from the reports and will continue to be, they are sure, and the government has also submitted a similar report that 2015 is too early. I am afraid that, in view of the trends I have mentioned earlier, he will recognize or should accept this. However, since I have already said that it would be fatal for us to take a step forward if we did not adopt a financial rule today, we are at the meetings that have been held for the last two or three days, I hope that we have managed to reach at least so much consensus that we have set ourselves a very serious task and that by 7 May we will carefully examine the figures, give the Government, after the three weeks available so far, an additional four weeks, to give the representatives of all political parties together the heads and take the responsibility and, on 7 May, we will continue to take decisions on this area. I have gladly proposed such a decision and will support it in the Group of Members. What do we need to talk about by May 7th? Not that the Constitutional Commission will determine what the text of this law should be, but we must discuss how we will seriously and decisively intervene in the balance of public finances and take measures in the area of the balance of the state budget, pour ourselves a clean wine and tell ourselves how we will manage and manage the state assets in the future, whether it will be part of the sale of the state property that we will agree on, including part of the payment of debts, and a key measure - we will have to agree on how we will implement the resolution process of the bad bank. When we address all this, we will have a very simple job to adopt the constitutional law as the crown of these agreements and to write a fiscal rule into the constitution. We have participated constructively in these discussions in the Slovenian People's Party, and we want to participate constructively in the next four weeks, and we also accept part of the burdens that will certainly need to be borne by our Slovenian policy when it begins to explain to the Slovenian public what measures need to be taken to regulate the area of public finances. We expect the constructive participation of all political parties in this work. Here it has a key role and responsibility of the Government, a key task it has a position, and this is certainly an area where it will be seriously and responsibly seen how someone represents acting in the constructive opposition. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are prepared to take part in this burden, and I hope that, if not possible today, at least on 7 May we will reach consensus and take these necessary measures and write them into the Slovenian Constitution. On this basis, it will be possible to pay back, if possible in June when it is necessary to reprogram, because we do not have the resources to rent more than a billion euro of credits, to obtain these loans at the most favourable rate. Let me give you two numbers here. If we get 4% in debt, we'll pay a year, as we can easily calculate, 40 million euros. If we go 7% in debt, we'll pay 70 million euros a year. This is 30 million euros a year, which is as much as we give from the budget for co-financing the transport of students and students to schools, or as much as a subsidy for a cheaper meal for the socially disadvantaged. This is what we talk about and decide when we talk about the fiscal rule. I believe in our wisdom and ultimately that we are mature and that we will put aside on this issue, who is from which party, who is in the coalition, who is in the opposition, and we will make a responsible action for Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, when this happens, we will uphold the fiscal rule. Obviously this will not be possible today, but we will be constructively involved in finding consensus in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings, honourable Members and honourable Members and all others present! Write a gold fiscal rule in the highest legal act of the Republic of Slovenia or not? The DeSUS Group has spoken about this several times and has not withdrawn its opinion. We support the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What is the basis for our decision? In fact, the impact of the efforts so far to address the consequences of the global crisis is not sufficient. On the fact that we have adopted a fiscal pact which provides for the adoption of a rule of a binding nature and is of a permanent nature. In fact, this fiscal pact is binding on us, as it has been in force since the first day of this year. In fact, the European Commission also stressed that the inclusion of a fiscal rule in the Constitution would constitute an important positive message on Slovenia's commitment to fiscal discipline. It is true that they maintain that neither the fiscal pact nor the European Union dictates that the fiscal rule must necessarily be enshrined in the constitution. They also state that we already have a fiscal rule drawn into our legal order in the government regulation today, but previous governments have violated their own restrictions. In addition, it is the power of a government regulation to change in a way that is too simple. It is not bound to the extent that the rule laid down in the Constitution is. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the introduction of a fiscal rule into the highest legal act, in the Constitution, would ensure that budgetary discipline and responsible public finances are more likely to be respected. Such fiscal rules, the limits of public expenditure, could not be quickly changed and adapted to the current political options and conditions. Also for external observers, with emphasis on the European Union and the credit rating houses, a constitutional rule would be more responsible for the Republic of Slovenia, which can only have positive effects. However, in the DeSUS Group, we point out that the basic purpose of the fiscal rule must not be to avoid a referendum, but merely to balance public finances, macroeconomic stability and the long-term well-being of the Republic of Slovenia. We are aware that, despite the entry into the Constitution, efforts will still be needed to adopt a specific implementing law that will further regulate this area. In the DeSUS Group, we respect the Act on the ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union adopted unanimously in 2011. We hope and expect that the fiscal rule will be included as soon as possible in the Slovenian legal order, in the Slovenian Constitution. Given that the majority will is expressed in a healthy and successful economic policy, in accordance with sound fiscal policy and budgetary balance, and in view of the fact that, in the year that these topics are still in place, it is now exactly one year since we confirmed the start of this procedure in the National Assembly and the position of the expert committee, this is also what Mrs President of the Constitutional Commission said – the situation in our country has changed significantly, in the DeSUS Group we believe that it will be necessary to consider the appropriateness of the text itself. The text also includes the commitment to budget balance, explicitly linked to 2015. Since this is an extremely important topic, we believe that further decisions on the constitutional text itself or on its possible corrections would necessarily require the submission of a financial situation and new calculations based on new macroeconomic baselines. It depends on whether we can expect the full implementation of the fiscal rule already in 2015 or whether we need a longer transitional period. In the DeSUS Group, we expect all those who want our country to come out of the crisis as soon as possible and leave behind everything bad that has brought us in recent years to determine the appropriate scope and structure of public consumption and to ensure its effectiveness, responsible behaviour today. We are all present today in the service of the people and it is our duty to step together and find a solution that will ensure the stable development of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Especially a nice greeting to a new colleague and a new colleague! A respected secretary of state with coworkers! With effect from 1 January this year, the Intergovernmental Treaty on the Fiscal Pact entered into force, namely the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, signed on 2 March last year by the 25 member states of the European Union. On 19 April last year, the Treaty ratified the National Assembly with 74 votes in favour, no votes against, and the Member and Member of the Social Democrats pressed the quorum. This contract was previously ratified by the Committee on Foreign Policy. When we were preparing for a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, thanks to the professional services, we asked the Legislative and Legal Service whether a majority or perhaps a constitutional majority were sufficient to ratify this law. The Legal and Legislative Service has taken quite a few days and briefly replied that it is necessary to seek an answer to this question at the Ministry of Finance. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy at the time, the Secretary of State, Dr Krušec, attended and briefly said that it was a simple majority. But thank God the National Assembly has contributed 74 votes to ratify this treaty. High support for the law on the ratification of the Treaty is also a high commitment of Slovenian policy to respect the Treaty. The new Slovenia respects the Treaty in an uncompromising manner, as it has demonstrated by the signing of the Coalition Treaty, the Treaties for Slovenia 2012-2015, in which we committed ourselves to balance public finances by 2015. Unfortunately, we were not given to make this happen. We have been removed from the path to achieving this goal. Today, the new Slovenia expects each parliamentary group to make clear whether or not it respects the Treaty. By means of a fiscal pact, the signatory countries committed themselves to public financial discipline. By 31 December 2013 at the latest, the signatory States must transpose this Pact into national legislation with binding and permanent provisions, and it is desirable to have the Constitution in place. Slovenia has recently been under the watchful eye of the European Commission and the international public as a result of a high public financial deficit. As already said, the previous government, whose reliable part was New Slovenia, as one of the fundamental tasks of the coalition contract, entered into a contractual commitment – a balanced budget for 2015. The entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule is not only a commitment to be fulfilled under the Fiscal Pact Treaty, but also an extremely important and positive signal that Slovenia must send to the international community and to the global financial markets at this time. It is a message that the balance of public finances is an important value, which falls within the hierarchical highest legal act that is practically impossible to violate. This will also be a serious step by Slovenia towards bringing our financial situation as a country back under control and within the framework the economy can manage. In this way, we will open up a space for economic development. There are investors who have yet to – not for long – open an enterprise in Slovenia, invest in a company that already exists, or participate in the recapitalisation of a bank and thus contribute to the start of our economy. However, all foreign investments are conditioned by a secure business environment, which must be provided by the State with an appropriate legislative framework and ensuring effective and consistent implementation of the legislation adopted. The proposal for a constitutional amendment provides that the revenue and expenditure of the country covered by its budgets must be balanced or that it may amount to a maximum annual deficit of up to 0,5 % of the gross domestic product. Since it is not realistic to expect the country to have a fully balanced budget each year, the amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution also allows for exceptions. This exception is linked to the concept of special circumstances. These may be unforeseen events, such as natural or other accidents, where resources must be provided to remedy the damage, to help people, and so on. Another special situation is the economic period in which we are now in the economic crisis. At that time, revenues from the state budget are lower, while the state must to some extent encourage consumption in order to achieve economic growth and at the same time preserve the social state. The first budget to comply consistently with this constitutional rule is the 2015 budget. We still insist on doing so, and we do not give up on it. Maximum efforts must be made to make this happen. In the meantime, during the transitional period, it is necessary to commit every time to the Government to propose budgets in such a way as to enable this constitutional provision to be implemented consistently in the financial year 2015. The transitional period is necessary and reasonable in view of the current economic situation and given the existing deficit in public finances. The fiscal rule does not speak of how we will achieve balanced public finances. The possibilities for budget balance vary – by increasing the revenue side or by reducing the cost or combination of both options. This is a matter of economic policies of every single government. At this point, it is most crucial that we take swift and decisive steps to achieve a balanced budget and thus restore the necessary confidence of the international public and financial markets. Ladies and gentlemen, today we all know that they count only actions. rhetoric is too small, rhetoric is nothing, and time is not our ally. But the truth is, time is money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u14	"In Positive Slovenia, we support the ratification of this agreement, but at the same time remind the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to rush into our legal order when introducing the provisions of this Treaty. The Treaty provides in the second paragraph of Article 3 that the legal order of the States Parties must be duly modified one year after the entry into force of this Treaty, which means that the first possible date of validity of the Treaties is 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Given the problems with the ratification of this Treaty in the Czech Republic and Ireland, this date is also becoming increasingly questionable. We certainly agree that Slovenia needs more discipline in the public financial field, but the proposed solutions must be thoughtful and not just a means to prevent referendums, which is clearly the first priority of this government." So I read a year ago when we ratified the treaty in this House. At that time, Positive Slovenia made it very clear what it has to do with the fiscal rule. I must say that in Positive Slovenia we are extremely pleased that, in the last two days, all political parties, regardless of the world view, the political agenda and the beliefs we have, have reached an agreement that we will today bring at least this item of the agenda to the point that we will break together with an agreement to agree on how to actually write a fiscal rule into the constitution – one that is proposed by the Constitutional Commission today or one such as the common agreement of a two-thirds majority in this House. I hope that it will be even greater on the basis of the real data that will be presented in this group by the Ministry of Finance in this National Assembly and that a serious discussion will also take place. I have to warn you two. Today we have heard quite a few words about this already in the presentation of the parliamentary groups, and we will probably have some more to come. I agree with what Mr Bogovic said that something can depend on this rule, including whether we will receive money under more favourable loans or more favourable interest or not. That is true, but we can all agree with one fact together in this National Assembly – the fiscal rule is not a measure of any kind. On the basis of the fiscal rule, there is no way to encourage economies, and that is what is the eternal problem of discussion and view. It is a fact, however, that we have agreed that in reality all political parties in Parliament agree that a fiscal rule, if correctly written, can go into the constitution. That is why I expect the next thing today – especially sobriety so that we do not continue to compromise the agreement that we will conclude as soon as possible. I believe that the agreement will be valid, that we will be able to reach the point where we can agree together on how the process of writing the fiscal rule will go into the constitution and will be appropriate for everyone in this meeting in May. This is what it means not to keep a fig in your pocket, as it has been heard several times in the last two days. This greatness, which takes place forever in Parliament, is purely and solely speculation – I believe no one in this Chamber is up to it. I am convinced that the agreement on this fiscal rule is the agreement that will lead to this point, that we will forget for a moment who comes from which party. Therefore, the Positive Slovenia will work in this sense, as we began with the fiscal rule, by forecasting last year – when we said that at least enough time should be taken so that we can all be sure that this is the right solution, so that we can come to the right decision on the basis of the right numbers and the right facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. On such an important subject as an agreement on the entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule, the President of the Government would be expected to be present. Last but not least, she took a lot of time to talk to the parliamentary groups, but she did not take the time to be at the plenary session of the National Assembly and to listen to the views of the parliamentary groups. It has brought this debate to a relatively low level. This is just another bad signal sent by Slovenian policy after the three-month suspension of Janez Janša and after the government of Alenka Bratušek to the international environment. The financial markets have responded rationally to the developments and statements of the new president and some ministers, and confidence in our country and its subsystems has suddenly collapsed. The consequences are partly severe and will be even worse if this lack of confidence in the new political structure continues and will last longer. Given that the government of Alenka Bratušek has no programme yet, the hope that the work of this government will be consistent is not. For some of the current coalition partners, a large part of their program was already realized by the fall of John Janša. The statements made by the representatives of the new authorities, which announced a change in budgetary and public subsystem policies and concepts, and their public assessment that following a European course of saving is a mistake, have been shaken by many who are accompanying us, evaluating us or doing business with us. Only a few sentences by Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek have driven the costs of financial resources, directly dependent on the functioning of the country, to the limit of barely acceptable and sustainable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule is the only strong message we can send to a vigilant and critical external environment. Following the success of the Janša government in the public financial field in the completion of labour market and pension reforms and improvements in the management of banks and state assets, trends in Slovenian debt costs turned strongly towards a positive direction. But just a few sentences, a little awkwardness and recklessness at the formation of the new government and coalition, were enough to put everything on the table and that the costs of obtaining liquid assets from foreign sources were very high. Writing a fiscal rule into the constitution is probably the only punching tool that can significantly change the adverse trends for temporarily borrowed resources, only if this is followed by a firm, European-oriented work of the Government, otherwise this step will also go to waste. In doing so, we recommend that the Government, the Presidents and the Ministers refrain from making any statements in the future that would point to the divergences of coalition parties on important social issues, or to the issue of European expectations. Much more than getting rid of Janša is important to you and us, that you will be credible at home and outside, that you will be righteous, that you will not boast, compete with each other with a kind word, but start to work more seriously. Work by program, not by mind, and not by the wishes of individual lobbying currents. It takes a program. This one is needed by you and all of us. At the time of the takeover of the government of Borut Pahor, the former Janševa government was in a very difficult situation when it had to face a fall in gross social product when it tried to take measures to boost the economy to curb the decline in economic growth, while at the same time reducing a huge budget deficit. At the same time, it faced a large number of downturns in companies, including formerly flowering brands. It was mostly stolen companies that launched tens of thousands of them among the unemployed. The government's efforts to stabilise and balance public finances have been sincere. They were neither stopped by a negative public opinion, richly sponsored by the views of the then privileged lobby networks, nor by the obvious and firm opposition of the then political opposition of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, who, with unrealistic statements, had further fuelled people's expectations. They were not even stopped by the blockades of the State Council and trade unions, which in every way tried to stop several fundamental acts with vetoes and referendums. The decisions of the Constitutional Court were of great help to the State, which, despite pressure, ruled in favour of a reasonable continuation of the European path. It is right that we thank the Constitutional Judges for their decisions made under great public pressure. In spite of all this, and despite the short but only one year's mandate, which has been burdened by the systemic blockades of trade unions, civil society, opposition, the State Council, the Janša government has managed to prepare and implement 4 key projects of the 4-year mandate in the area of public finances, the banking system, state property management and, by the way, improved many other acts. The laws on the so-called bad bank and the Slovenian State Holding and, as it is said, the pension and labour reform were adopted, the budget for 2013 and 2014, with the budget deficit almost halved. We can also mention the Public Finance Balance Act and a number of other administrative simplifications and valuations. In March this year, Janša's one-year mandate was concluded, which laid a solid foundation for the financial recovery of the country. Among the so-called major projects, it remained not only a record of the fiscal rule in the Constitution. For this project too, the Janševa government had the ambition to get it into the constitution as soon as possible, and this was also in line with the views of all parliamentary party presidents during the transitional period when there was no government after the extraordinary elections. According to the Janša government, there have also been similar obstacles to this project as with all of the projects listed above, but in spite of all the successful projects implemented. We have run into opposition resistance, probably backed by the interests of the tycoons involved in various networks, which is why the tycoons have extremely transparent and privileged access to public resources and therefore we have also fallen so deeply in the field of public finances, public procurement, the banking system and state property management. Public money is still disappearing in all these areas and all of this is still packed in the so-called national interest. We can ask ourselves, whose public interest it is, who is it in the interest that all of this is happening with this remarkable password. Certainly not for citizens who are most suitable for the provision of recapitalisation funds. It seems that national interest is primarily a privilege to the place which has become a national sport. In all of these cases, the rule of law has almost completely repealed the problem. These "mahers" who have robbed or stolen companies, robbed workers, robbed banks, transferred money to Cyprus or other oasis, nothing happens, there's never enough evidence. In doing so, petty misdemeanors and certain cases against which proceedings are initiated without substantiated evidence shall be prosecuted with incredible perseverance, and a premeditated assumption is sufficient that something suspected of having happened somewhere would have occurred. As a result, we have been monitoring burlesque in court for several years just to get public attention away from real crooks. The entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule will require a lot of effort from every single authority to prepare a budget adjustment. As a result, public finances need to be further rewinded, the necessary costs cleared, further rationalisations carried out, by 30 per cent or more, to improve the efficiency of public money. It will be necessary to improve and simplify public procurement legislation and, in particular, to improve public procurement control, improve insolvency law, implement a reform of an inefficient judicial system, etc. They are not thrilled with the inclusion of fiscal rules in the Constitution in those environments that are ready and used to living above their capabilities and who expect someone to pay for them at all times. Such practice should be discontinued as soon as possible. We should've stopped that by now. Janša's government hoped, when she was in power, to bite into that sour apple. If we had agreed to do so, this rule would have been enshrined in the constitution a year ago, but then opposition parties, Positive Slovenia and Social Democrats, have partly withdrawn their support. Some objected to this entry, and there was no longer sufficient support for the entry of this necessary amendment into the Constitution. Each day we postpone this is closer to 2015 and every day we do not do enough to have public finances then or since then balanced. Now we're ahead of the fact. It is necessary to make a final decision whether we are politicians to balance public finances or not. There's no time to think. If we don't make the most of this moment, it's gonna be a bad message, and it's not good for us. Any postponement will raise suspicion in the external evaluators. Any interpretation of power to financial institutions and markets will be hampered if the fiscal rule is not adopted and the collapse follows. Proposers of the extraordinary session expect the responsibility of politicians towards the country and the soundness of the current policy. Lobi or other partial interests are far less important than the state and fate of its citizens. We are in a situation where we have to decide whether to accept or not to accept the change in the Constitution or to let it end in itself by the end of the term of office. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the last option is out of the question and that we must decide whether we want to manage the country responsibly, organise the functioning of systems and subsystems in accordance with the options we are able to develop and finance ourselves, or continue with the policy of excessive debt and the transfer of burdens to future generations. If the fiscal rule is not adopted, the external environment will be given a very bad signal. Nor will it be much better if we delay our adoption, for this will be a sign that it is not meant to be serious. In our view, the only appropriate response is the immediate adoption and entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule. This is the only thing financial markets and investors will understand. This morning we re-examined the entry of the fiscal rule into the constitution also in the parliamentary group. That was yesterday's agreement, and we have reached four conclusions. First of all, we welcome the statement by Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek on the principle of support for all parliamentary groups for the recording of the fiscal rule in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The second conclusion is that the SDS Group supports the continuation of the consolidation of public finances and the rehabilitation of the banking system and better, more efficient and transparent management of state assets. Thirdly, the SDS Group notes that the early entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule is one of the most important measures to improve the country's reputation and position in domestic and foreign financial markets and in international institutions. Fourthly, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group notes that there are no valid reasons to postpone the debate and decide on the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. The implementation dilemma in 2015 is artificially created as the proposed amendment of the Constitution allows for the adjustment of the deficit or surplus of the budget to the medium-term situation. These were the conclusions of the Group of Members. At this afternoon's meeting of the presidents of parliamentary parties and the leaders of parliamentary groups, the majority of the parties felt that debate and decision-making should be suspended today and continued after more detailed calculations on the importance of introducing a fiscal rule into the Constitution. In the Group of Members, we estimate that it is unnecessary to obtain more detailed calculations, as the proposed provision of constitutional change is clear, unequivocal and flexible enough for unforeseen situations as well. We understand, however, that today there is not enough majority to adopt this constitutional provision, so we will not oppose the proposal to end the debate and the decision. We do not agree with the return of the material to the Constitutional Commission because there is no need for it and because there is no business or procedural basis for it. Some statements after this afternoon's meeting regarding agreement in this area are not correct. We express our opposition to the return to the Constitutional Commission. A bad month ago, by the vote of the government of Alenka Bratušek, you also succeeded in replacing the opposition. The Slovenian Democratic Party is now the largest opposition party and has a different view of entering a fiscal rule into the constitution than the former largest opposition party. Due to the constructiveness of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the government of Alenka Bratušek is now quite able to work and I suggest that you take advantage of the opportunity offered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As a commitment to tackle the increasingly difficult public financial situation in Greece, Spain, and later in Cyprus, the golden fiscal rule has emerged as part of the response, along with other mechanisms and levers recorded in the so-called fiscal pact. With a commitment and a safeguard to prevent the domino effect of other European Union Member States, Slovenia has committed itself to ratifying the Pact in order to respect the provisions and to participate constructively in the implementation of mechanisms that will help to stabilise the increasingly limping state of government at the level of individual Member States and consequently the entire European space. The implementation of the fiscal rule as the so-called objective of the Member States' balanced budgets has been welcomed by the Social Democrats as a good objective, which, in addition to the results of the country's balanced budgets, requires answers to questions on what conditions mechanisms and at what time interval this objective can be achieved. It seems that the core of different interpretations of both policies and professions concerns exactly what a fiscal rule is. We believe that fiscal rule is primarily the aim of establishing sound public finances over the medium term and not a direct mechanism to achieve sound public finances. If I simplify, respectable, we want a healthy public finances or a golden fiscal rule, a levelled state budget, but before we adopt a golden fiscal rule, we need to know how the patient is and, above all, when we can expect him to be cured. We need clear answers to the questions that will give us a picture of how they are and will be Slovenian public finances. Taking into account the current and possible medium-term economic situation, only the so-called fixed state budgets can be achieved. Throughout the debate, we have repeatedly warned that, otherwise, the drug can become poison, and that instead of stability and growth, we can witness the catastrophic consequences of the so-called deterioration of the financial, economic, and especially for us Social Democrats, social conditions. As long as the political summit was meeting that the golden fiscal rule was acceptable and necessary, the Social Democrats stressed that the implementing law was that matter or tool for the implementation of this rule. To this, I must tell you, the professional public has also nodded. Following yesterday's parliamentary meeting with the President of the Government, understanding of this power was seen in all parliamentary groups, except for the currently largest opposition. The fears expressed by the motioners of the meeting that the non-admission of the fiscal rule will be a strong negative signal from the international community, we attach the Social Democrats, but we say that we take at least enough time to rewind the financial and economic situation in Slovenia, and that we do again or that we make projections of the implementation of the fiscal rule at various time intervals and mechanisms, how to implement the fiscal rule without irreparable consequences. In light of this, we believe that the last text of the constitutional law contains a lot of ambiguity, particularly as regards the implementation of the golden fiscal rule by 2015. Financial analysts point out that there is a high probability that the 2015 budget forecast is unrealistic, by not putting at risk the very core of the fiscal pact – ensuring the stability of public finances. We're in the middle of a complicated situation. Today, it would be irresponsible to vote on the introduction of a golden fiscal rule without answering the most important question, how and when and with what mechanisms to achieve fiscal rule, by not giving people the benefit of the money, or by preparing the text of a constitutional law on the basis that it will serve the stability of public finances and thus growth. Stability and growth are probably at the heart of all parties' programmes, as well as the vision of the Social Democrats. I do not want the latter to be challenged as a promotion of the electoral campaign, but in the light of the understanding of the fiscal rule, it is important that we really present the fiscal rule as a result of all the coordinated measures that go towards fiscal consolidation, but – important – without consequences that would further devour the social state. I do not want to get caught up in this or any of the measures of the previous or all previous governments, which are responsible for the situation that Slovenia is in today, but we must learn something from past practices. The current situation of Slovenian public finances, poor economic conditions and all projections shows that the so-called austerity policy, as we have seen in the last year, is not the right response to the crisis. Many international institutions have also made this clear. The crisis, my dears, has been the most affected by those who need and are entitled to a country which, through austerity measures, will not push them to the bottom, but will help them and create conditions to the extent that they can secure a decent life. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the social state is serving this purpose. This is the foundation of stability and growth. We therefore stress that the fiscal rule in itself, without the appropriate mechanisms and the time of its realization, is not the only true answer to how to build this social foundation. This has also been demonstrated by the experience of many countries when they adopted the fiscal rule, such as Italy and Spain. Unfortunately, we cannot today and it would be wrong to say how much fiscal rule we want. It's a fiscal rule or it's not. I claim that in Slovenia we have it by ratifying the international treaty, because we are obliged to respect the provisions of that treaty by the Constitution. However, I am not saying that in the light of this it does not have to be implemented into Slovenian legislation. But that's a question for lawyers. I do not intend to pour oil on the fire of those who stumble on procedural issues, when and how the text of the constitutional law can be re-evaluated. Today, politics has the opportunity for the international community, and in particular for citizens and citizens, to prove once again that it can act in a state-of-the-art way when it comes to Slovenia. For our information, we have also proved in the previous mandate or in the previous government, when we adopted pension reform, labour market reform, even the budget, and could still list. People too often and often hear about the majority needed to adopt this or that law, ratification, commitment and could also list. Change of constitution, respectable, requires a two-thirds majority. If I say it differently, it means a majority that goes beyond division into opposition and coalition. Today is the time to show that this is the case and that the issue of the fiscal pact in which the fiscal rule is hidden is an issue that we must not afford even a handful of political speculation. We believe that social democrats must be particularly concerned with the issue of fiscal consolidation and stability. If we thought that we could vote today on the introduction of a fiscal rule in the text as it is written, we would. But if we vote today, no matter what the outcome is, we have all lost, my dears. Politically forced solutions to such an important issue have no effect on just this or that government, for short-term or longer-term policies. The consequences of such conduct will be borne by every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. So let us take the time and make a smart decision together in May, which will be of particular benefit to our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-11-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Honourable Members, on the basis of Article 73(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, in accordance with the agreement reached at today's meeting, the first item of the agenda and the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday, 7 May 2013. Thank you.
