ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Zvone Černač, Mr Branko Smodiš and Mr Marijan Pojbič. I welcome all those present once again. Before we move on to the 12th item of the agenda, we are moving on to a note by the President of the Government on the resignation of Mr Igor Maher from the role of Minister of Infrastructure and Space. The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek wrote to me by letter of 29. 3. 2013 informed Mr Igor Maher of his resignation as Minister of Infrastructure and Space. Does Mr. Maher want to explain his resignation? He does. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u2	Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Ministers and Ministers, President of the National Assembly and Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! As you know, on March 25th, I delivered a resignation statement from the Minister of Infrastructure and Space. I accepted the minister's office because I sincerely believed that I would be able to implement my programme in the area covered by this ministry and which received your high support at the presentation. Resor needs urgent and fundamental reforms. However, as questions related to my property arose in public, on the basis of doubts that I might have committed a misdemeanour over the past 11 years, for which no one has been harassing me to date, I decided to resign and thus allow the smooth work of the government and the policy to relieve the severe pressures associated with my appointment. Slovenia needs a government that will deal with real challenges, and it is not acceptable for this or any other government to deal with whether the 35 square metres are a large basement or storage facility or whether this facility is a simple facility under the regulation or not. That's not the government's job. Each, even small affair with the government takes the precious time it lasts takes to take key steps to resolve the difficult economic situation. Doubts in the integrity of politics spoil our community, make your work difficult and hinder Slovenia's exit from the crisis. Therefore, I believe that the first and most important task is to restore people's trust. Use my retreat as a stepping stone to this crucial goal for the future of our country. That's why I want you to take my resignation primarily as a warning. The level of public mistrust in politics in Slovenia is so low that there is no room for error. On this occasion, I would like to apologize to the Prime Minister for all the inconveniences caused by my candidacy. Times are not easy, so I hold my hand that this government will succeed in achieving its objectives, and I promise to continue to contribute constructively to the achievement of its objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for explaining your resignation. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Mr Igor Maher has ceased to serve as Minister for Infrastructure and Space. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Igor Maher conducts ongoing business until the appointment of a new Minister. Allow me once again to thank Mr Igor Maher for the work he has done, and I wish him the best in his future work. Thank you. We are moving on to the conclusion that the Vice-President of the National Assembly will be terminated. On 2 April 2013, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Jakob Preseknik, made a written statement to resign from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is informed of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that Mr Jakob Presečnik made a statement on 2 April 2013 on his resignation from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly and that, as of today, he shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Allow me to thank Mr Jakob President for his extremely important work as Vice-President at the time of his replacement of the President of the National Assembly, and also at the time when he served as Vice-President. Thank you and wish you a successful work forward in the National Assembly! [[Applause]] We're moving on to 12. The Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Croatia, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Slovenia The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the President of the Government of Magi. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u4	Your Honor! Today, when we look together at the European future of two friendly nations and countries, we need to learn from our people, who in the border areas of Istria through Kolpa and Mura have been cultivating genuine co-existence and neighborly solidarity for generations. All these valuable experiences of the current coexistence of neighbourhood and cultural proximity will be further developed. Without them, we couldn't have made significant moves in recent years. Encouraged by neighbouring solidarity, border issues have unfortunately already been addressed by the late Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Račan and Mr Drnovšek. The idea of co-existence led Prime Minister Kosorje and Prime Minister Pahor to enable the State to reach an arbitration agreement. And with a view to the common European future, Prime Minister Milanović and Janša signed an agreement a few days ago on the savers of the Ljubljana Bank. Each of these paths was important to people, and they're why we're all here together. The European Union is a place where we build relations between citizens and countries on respect, dialogue and mutual trust. It is precious to live in such an environment. It is therefore appropriate to re-emphasize the important message of the Republic of Croatia's membership in the European Union at the moment of today's ratification. The European path unites and creates important alliances. In particular, we want this message to reach all people in the Western Balkan countries, where the processes of approximation and integration with the European Union have not been completed for a long time. In the second half of this year, our two countries, Slovenia and Croatia, will decide together as full members of the European Union. We will speak every language there and Europe will understand us. But let us ask ourselves at a time of crisis whether we understand it, whether in our everyday actions we are always thinking first of all about European values, whether we can help the citizens of Greece, whether we can detect the real problems of the citizens of Cyprus, or whether the voice of the Madrid, Roman and Lisbon streets, as well as our local streets, reaches us. Only if we know the high-level political messages to translate into everyday language the co-existence of effective policies, good neighbourliness and good governance with public affairs and common good are we truly the European policy in the best sense of the word. True, ratifications take place in parliaments, but true confirmations of our policies take place in schools and kindergartens, in workplaces and in administrative units, in public transport headquarters and at university departments, where European policies are ratified, where European statesmen are confirmed before their citizens and citizens. Therefore, on this occasion, I should particularly like to thank all those experts and team members who have participated on both sides in this important and challenging project. All are grateful for their unwavering confidence in the vitality of the European project and the ability to find a compromise solution. Slovenia is sincerely convinced that the enlargement of the European Union brings stability to democracy and economic success, both in our interests. The financial crisis we are facing will also be easier to overcome with collective strength. Of course, each of us will have to do his part at home first, but together we will find the right solutions. Your Honor! Croatia's successful journey to the European family is a good example for all new members to believe in the difficult path of reform and adaptation to the European Union's high standards, and today's ratification proves that Slovenia understands the European policy of co-operation and solidarity as its policy. Of course not, because Preshern has already taught us that living in a world that is not the devil, but only a neighbor will be a milestone. It's nice if you can carry out poet's visions, especially if you can contribute to a better tomorrow with your work. So once again, congratulations and thank you all!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you again, Prime Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body who reported in writing to the assembly. You want a word as an outside minister? I give the floor to Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, ministers of the Slovenian Government! I agree with the President of the Government today is a special day. The National Assembly will take stock of the process of ratification of the Croatian Accession Treaty and Slovenia is sincerely looking forward to this. We are convinced that Croatia's membership in the European Union brings new perspectives for cooperation in the European framework and new quality in relations between countries. A bad decade has passed since Slovenia's entry into the European Union. We can say that each accession story is unique, but some parallels can be drawn during the accession negotiations between Slovenia and Croatia despite the time delay. The similarity of the European test that both countries went through has opened a new chapter in cooperation. Slovenia has actively shared the experience gained with Croatia and has provided it with professional support while maintaining a two-way relationship. Throughout this process, the countries have laid new foundations for enhanced partnership and mutual trust. Trust is the basis of the key agreements reached by the countries over the past period. Let me point out that these are extremely complex issues which have been inherited by the State from the period of the former common country and its disintegration. Solutions to these questions were able to be found in the European spirit, mutual trust and respect. Let me mention here only the arbitration agreement on the border issue and the recently concluded memorandum of understanding on the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia, which places this issue in the successor agreement, where it belongs. This is why special thanks is given to all actors who have contributed to the appropriate solutions for both sides. In doing so, I would like to stress our deep conviction that, by determining how to resolve the border issue and the Ljubljana Bank, we have addressed in the best possible way the disagreements and problems that have burdened our relations. The task of both countries and their governments is to respect and implement consistently agreed in a spirit of mutual respect, good-neighbourly relations and the building of strengthened partnerships under new conditions when both Member States of the European Union are. The Croatian negotiating process has been more thorough than any negotiating process so far. This may sound like bad news for aspirants and future members, but it is the result of the important lessons learned by the European Union in its enlargements. The negotiating process is hard work, but if all the necessary efforts are made, supported by a clear political will and motivation of citizens, it brings results. Of course, European enlargement policy is not a miracle stick, but we all agree that it is an excellent tool for transforming society and the country and that it brings progress and development in all areas. Croatia successfully concluded the negotiations on 30 June 2011 and I am pleased that last week the latest progress report, or the latest report of the shut down of the supervisory mechanism, was published. The European Commission considers that Croatia generally meets the requirements of accession negotiations in all chapters. According to the Commission's assessment, Croatia has shown that it is also able to meet the other requirements at an appropriate time before accession. Nor is it possible to ignore the will of the Croatian people, which on 22 January last year at the referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union with a good 66% firm expression in favour of Croatia's membership in the European Union. In Slovenia we have accepted this result with special satisfaction. In all respects, Croatia's almost membership in the European Union is the interest of Slovenia. This one is undeniable and supported by many facts. Croatia is the only neighbour of Slovenia who is not yet a member of the European Union. Croatia is one of Slovenia's most important trading partners and the second most important destination for Slovenian investors. Therefore, Croatian membership in the European Union in economic terms will certainly have an impact on strengthening cooperation between countries. This interest of Slovenia is also sincere. It is not possible to measure everything in numbers, in categories of economic benefits, so we are particularly looking forward to the acceleration that the common membership of Slovenia and Croatia in the European Union brings in the sphere of contacts between people in the fields of education, culture and science. We expect a particularly creative synergy here. As the European Union expands to Croatia, the stability zone is also south-east of Slovenia and all neighbouring countries. Uniform rules or rules of the common market shall be laid down. With Croatia's entry into the European Union, there will be new opportunities to intensify Slovenia's cooperation with Croatia in the field of economy and cross-border integration. Economic operators are best prepared for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Expectations on both sides are justifiably high, both governments will contribute to the success of all the benefits of joint membership in the European Union. Specific areas still apply to be highlighted, which will take time before Croatia fully cooperates. One of these is the Schengen area. We want Croatia to meet these difficult principles and standards as soon as possible, which is in the interest of Slovenia. Macro-regional strategies within the European Union are also very important, in which we expect fruitful cooperation with Croatia. We would point out the emerging Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, which will certainly gain a new impetus with the membership of Croatia as an important Adriatic country. We are also looking forward to future cooperation with Croatia under the Danube Strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia is one of the biggest supporters of the enlargement of the European Union in the European Union, with particular emphasis on enlargements to the Western Balkans. In doing so, we have consistently stressed the respect of the three criteria, which are a guarantee for the final stabilisation of the region and its future development. Good-neighbourly relations, regional cooperation and respect for ratified international agreements. Croatia's entry into the European Union opens up new opportunities to strengthen cooperation between countries in the Western Balkans region and to strengthen mutual trust. This is also a difficult process, but Slovenia and Croatia are particularly invited to contribute to this process as best they can. It is our shared responsibility to be aware that we can only talk about what we ourselves are living, which requires high standards of our own development and the consistent implementation of the reforms adopted in the accession process. Your Honor! Allow me a brief final thought. Slovenia and Croatia are located at the intersection of important European and global routes and at the intersection of different cultures. That is why we understand the importance of milestones in both countries. The milestones are to alert us to the route or the work that has been done and at the same time to indicate what is coming. I believe that today's event confirms both countries' readiness for the future. I would like to keep the atmosphere of today in everything we are going to build and develop together in the European Union. So I look forward to today's event here at the National Assembly. I am confident that by ratifying the Croatian accession treaty we will open a new chapter in relations between countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u7	I also thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for further explaining the bill. As I have already announced, the proposal for a law has also been treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which has reported in writing to the assembly. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! At its regular meeting on 20 March 2013, the Committee on Foreign Policy addressed the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the Member States of the European Union, as well as the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union by a final instrument submitted to the Assembly. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legislative aspects and had no comments on the text of the bill. The Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Viktor Erjavec, who said that the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is one of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the proposer. He pointed out that, after the Presidents of the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia signed a Memorandum of Understanding on 11 March 2013 in Mokricah between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there had already been an exchange of notes on the fulfilment of internal legal conditions, so that the Memorandum was in force and all the conditions were met for the State Assembly to begin the procedure or ratify the Accession Treaty. In the debate, the members of the Committee expressed their satisfaction and appreciation to all those who have been working throughout the period to find solutions to open issues between countries and have contributed to the initiation of the process of ratification of the Accession Treaty in the National Assembly. They stressed that the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is in the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia itself, as well as of the whole region of the Western Balkans and the European Union. It is a matter of political and economic interest and cooperation. However, the members of the Committee also pointed out that all open issues between countries have not yet been resolved, but there is a route through which the country will reach its final solutions and the fact that these issues will now be resolved by the country in new circumstances as a member of the European Union. They also drew attention to some of the commitments that the Republic of Croatia still needs to fulfil and relate in particular to the issue of freedom, justice and security or external border control and related issues. After the discussion, the Committee voted together on all the articles. By an appropriate majority, at least two-thirds of the members of the Committee, the Committee adopted, with 15 votes in favour and no "against" all the articles of the draft law. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes that the draft law on the ratification of the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, together with the final act, be adopted in the text before it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, too, to the Chairman of the Committee on the Report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Let me begin by saying that the Group of Social Democrats will be pleased to support today's Act of Ratification of the Accession Treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Since 2009, since the adoption of the arbitration agreement, we have been actively engaged in relations with the Republic of Croatia, and we can therefore share the satisfaction of today's event that the Republic of Croatia will become a full member of the European Union as of 1 July 2013. At the meeting of the President of the State, all parliamentary parties committed themselves to ratifying the accession treaty in the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia and one of our first priorities. Before that, however, a number of open questions had to be resolved that we were unburdened today before this historic event and had no qualms about how to proceed. The European Union has been implementing enlargement policy for more than four decades, from the original 6 it has grown to 27 Member States. Croatia will certainly become the 28th member of the European Union on 1 July. From the outset, the enlargement policy of the European Union has been a response to the legitimate wish of the people of our continent to join the Western and United Europe project. Recent enlargements have brought the West and East of Europe closer together after decades of artificial division. This time, however, enlargement continues in the Western Balkans, where wars raged between 1991 and 2001, involving all six former Yugoslav republics. Slovenia and Croatia are therefore all the more bound by the common interest in stability and strengthening the Euro-Atlantic perspective of the entire Western Balkans region. Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia are good and intense at all levels. This is also demonstrated by numerous visits and meetings at the highest level. It is particularly gratifying that excellent cooperation is also in the economic field. The total value of trade between countries was almost €2.3 billion in 2012. The Republic of Croatia is the 5th most important foreign trade partner of our country. One of the most important economic areas that connects both countries is certainly tourism. Croatia is one of the most important markets in Slovenian tourism. In 2011, visitors from Slovenia to Croatia were 4th in the number of nights and in the opposite direction the numbers were not so negligible, as Croatian tourists created almost 300,000 nights in 2011. Both countries have a lot of common interests. First of all, these are economic and other development projects of mutual interest to the two countries. I mean infrastructure and energy projects here. Thus, projects such as the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava and other cross-border projects also have financial implications, as these are projects where it is possible to draw significant funds from the European Union funds. Here I also refer to the tourism mentioned above and the services related to it – wood processing, trade, automotive industry, biotechnology, information technology and so on. Your Honor! The cultural, linguistic and geographical proximity and the common European future are our great advantage. Both nations and both countries have great historical and moral capital. In the 15th century, co-existence has never resulted in fatal hostility or conflict, which is the rarity of the European dimension. Today, too, residents on both sides of the border — more than 700 kilometers [700 km] long common borders — are involved because the border did not separate them but connected them. In addition, people on both sides of the border speak both languages well and are linked by many common fates. The ratification of Croatia's Association Agreement to the European Union can also be understood as a continuation of this positive historical experience and a new chapter in relations between countries. Happy Croatia, Happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Sam Bevk. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! To this day we could not attribute as much historical meaning as symbolic to him. In history, once a united country is reunited after 22 years into an even wider and, above all, democratic community. But today is the day when we will not look too much into the past but, above all, into the future and into what the European Union, Slovenia and Croatia can gain from today's ratification of the accession treaty, which has been ratified by most European Union countries so far. United In Diversity – United in diversity. This is a slogan that symbolically symbolizes the integration of European countries into the European Union, the integration of lasting peace and prosperity and the wealth of different cultures, traditions and languages. From its creation to today, it has spread, developed, and changed. There has been a strong link between the Member States, which is linked by the desire to achieve the objectives of the European Union and the determination to continue the process of forming an ever closer link between the peoples of Europe on the already established foundations. As the European Union expands, its external borders move and we want the movement of people within the Union to be free and rapid. In the Civil Gazette we remain advocates of the enlargement process, of course, while meeting all the standards and conditions that apply equally to all members or new members. It's about Europe, it's about you! The year 2013 is the European Year of Citizens, dedicated to the rights and benefits of European Union citizenship. And it is this year that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia also join the European Union. In the last report on monitoring Croatia's readiness to join the European Union, the European Commission was pleased to note that Croatia has carried out its priorities and demonstrated its ability and the ability to fulfil all its open obligations in due time before accession. The Commission also points out in the report that membership in the European Union offers many important opportunities for Croatia and the Union. These opportunities must be used to ensure that the participation of Croatia and the European Union is successful for the benefit of Croatia, the Western Balkans and the entire European Union. In doing so, it expects further results in the rule of law and the fight against corruption. And which Union does Croatia enter? During the years of existence, the European Union is working towards the greatest possible financial stability and strengthening of the economy, but we must recognise that it is also fighting a loss of confidence in financial markets. Croatia's opportunity will be to grow and create new jobs, improve workers' mobility and establish a stable and effective business support environment. Today we are just before the final act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the ratification of the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia for the European Union. We want citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to build confidence in the European Union and to make the most of the advantages it offers. We express our satisfaction and gratitude to all those who, in the pre-accession period, sought to find solutions to the open issues between the countries and contributed to the initiation of the process of ratification of the accession treaty in the National Assembly. And let us once again stress that it is a pleasure for us to have resolved most of the most important open issues between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia before Croatia enters the European Union, while we are confident that good relations will now be strengthened. In the fact that both Member States will be Member States of the European Union, we are confident that the problem will be solved with even greater enthusiasm and satisfaction for all. Together with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we look forward to 1 July when our neighbourhood will have a completely new European dimension. Members and Members of the National Charter will be supported by the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Happy Croatia!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u14	Good afternoon, honourable President of Parliament, distinguished Prime Minister, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia. The Slovenian People's Party has always supported our neighbour's entry into the circle of European countries. Again, today and in this debate, we wish to stress that the Slovenian People's Party has always tried to find and propose solutions that are also in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and at the borders of the living Slovenians. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we stress that we are aware of a historic moment which represents a major step for both neighbouring countries. That is why I would like to express once again, due to responsibility for the past and especially for the future, some of the expectations that we have with regard to relations between the countries when the Republic of Croatia enters the Union of democratic European States. This event is not only important for the Republic of Croatia, but is certainly also important for our country, in particular with two aspects. The first important aspect for Slovenia is the positive importance of the accession of the neighbouring country to the European Union for our country, not only in terms of the geopolitical strategic situation of both countries, but it is also a major step for the economy, and not least to facilitate the lives of the people on both sides of the border. The second aspect concerns outstanding issues between the two countries. Today we know what our ancestors did right that Styria remained Slovenian, and what our ancestors did wrong, for example, that part of Koroška remained on the Austrian side of Karavank. We do not want our grandchildren to blush because of our decision, because at a time when we had all the levers in our hands, we would waste our craftsmen, for example, the sea as our window into the world and the loss of the status of the maritime state in the full sense of that word. It is therefore fully in line with our efforts so far to express the expectation that Croatia, as a friendly country and from 1 July onwards, will also respect the agreement and promises we have made in bilateral agreements on outstanding issues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore expect to agree on a fair border between the two countries at points of dispute in the future, and that both the arbitral tribunal and the Republic of Croatia will in future recognise Slovenia as well as as as regards the border in Istria and the sea, in light of the historical facts and the situation 25. 6. belongs. We have been negotiating this all the time since independence and it is enshrined in international treaties and bilateral agreements. We also expect that, in line with the promises, there will be solutions that will be just and acceptable to both sides in the agreements on succession at the time of the collapse of the SFRY and in the latest agreements between the countries. In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret that the country has failed to resolve all open issues before Slovenia joins the EU or at least until now Croatia joins the EU. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore express legitimate expectations that the Slovenian Government and the competent minister will do their utmost to take all credible documents and evidence into account when dealing with issues. The final solution to the issues at stake must be the next positive step in building good-neighbourly relations and in building new links and new opportunities brought by our neighbour's entry into the circle of democratic countries of the European Union. For good relations between neighbours, for new opportunities both in the economic field and in the construction of an area of peace and coexistence in the region, today we will support the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union with positive expectations. To citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I congratulate you on your past reform path at the time of accession to the European Union, and I sincerely wish you to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the European Union and to meet your expectations at the time of entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In 2010, the Republic of Slovenia agreed to the closure of Chapter 4 in the framework of Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union, in good faith due to Croatia's promise that the issue of foreign exchange depositors of the Ljubljana Bank will be resolved within the framework of an agreement on succession issues and that the issue of access of Slovenian banks on the Croatian market will therefore be settled. It was an oral agreement at the level of the Presidents of the then governments. He also visited Croatia as the first country on 13 March 2012. At that time, the Croatian side expressed its doubts and reservations surprisingly if this issue was to be resolved under the successor agreement at all. The adoption of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in April 2013 followed, by which it approved the continuation of the proceedings before the Croatian courts against the Ljubljana Bank and the New Ljubljana Bank. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately responded to the international community and Croatia's warning that the issue of foreign exchange deposit guarantees falls within the framework of the legacy which the successor states of the SRFJ undertake to negotiate. Regarding the issue of lawsuits, the State has initiated regular communication, which took place mainly through constructive discussions in letters between the two foreign ministers. At the meeting in Dubrovnik in July 2012, Foreign Minister Erjavec and Pusič agreed to appoint two financial experts on the issue of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia. This was also one of the key events in finding a common solution to this problem. Ministers have advocated resolving this long-standing open issue in the spirit of continuing good-neighbourly relations and working together in good faith. Our foreign ministry has insisted on resolving this issue before the ratification of the accession treaty. Over the past year, our ministry, led by Foreign Minister Erjavac, has conducted a number of activities in the field of public awareness. The conclusions of the European Union are that Croatia must respect the international treaties in force, the succession and commitment agreements reached during the pre-accession negotiations. The talks between the two countries were accelerated by the 2013 meeting of Erjavec-Pusic in Brussels, January and February in Otokec. Results of the talks: a compromise solution based on the successor agreement and the fact that it is not possible to initiate the ratification procedure of the accession treaty as long as legal proceedings are ongoing in Croatia. Minister Erjavec, in combination with the diplomatic-consular network, has undoubtedly played a key role in representing Slovenian vital interests and in finding a solution to the almost 20-year-old problem between neighbouring countries. With the ratification of Croatia's accession treaty to the European Union, we can conclude that, thanks to the Foreign Minister and his one-year efforts, the friendly country, which together in the European Union, will be able to build on cooperation and good neighbourly relations. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we unanimously support Croatia's admission to membership of the European Union. We look forward to today’s event in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! The balance of open issues between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia is practically the same throughout the period of Slovenian and Croatian autonomy. Today, however, we can see that the efforts of all Slovenian governments to find solutions to the unresolved issues between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia have not been in vain. Today we do not have definitive answers to open questions. But we have a path that can lead to definitive, just and good-neighbourly solutions in the spirit of the highest European standards. The intensity of efforts to find answers to open questions between countries and the density of bilateral relations, particularly in recent times, has all led us to have a precise path to answers to open questions today. This way we will walk together: Slovenia and Croatia, Croatia and Slovenia. A common walk along the same path requires trust — trust among individuals, trust among statesmen, trust among countries and trust among nations. It is a value without which there is no coexistence and no peace. But trust is also a value that has been cherished by the fathers of united Europe, Christian Democrats, Monnet, Schuman, Adenauer, De Gasperi and others. Slovenia today, by ratifying the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, expresses its trust in neighbouring Croatia because the Croatian nation of trust is a worthy nation. However, we expect that Croatian politics, both current and future, will never play out Slovenian trust. With congratulations from Slovenia and Croatia, the New Slovenia Group expresses the hope and expectation that Slovenia will receive its last, the fourth and most important European neighbour as of 1 July 2013. Emphasis, European neighbor. I join you in congratulating you, colleagues and colleagues, especially members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Professional Services, the previous Government of the Republic of Slovenia with President Janez Janša, Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Erjavac with the team and Mr Tonet Kaiser. In this context, I would also like to mention Dr Francet Arhar's financial expert. Of course, thanks also to the Croatian side. For me, the visit of the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Policy to the Croatian Parliament and to the seat of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was launched last March, at the invitation of the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, was very helpful to me personally. This was a visit by the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Policy in Croatia after 14 years. I would like to thank my colleague Pupovac, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, for his invitation. Europe would be better and better if all European policies consistently practiced the values of the fathers of united Europe who began building bridges between warring nations and countries in the ruins of World War II. Only those who work out of the belief that it takes respect, cooperation and forgiveness to coexist between peoples and nations can build something new, something big and lasting. In this place, I invite all Slovenian, all Croatian and European policies to follow the principles of the fathers of a united Europe. With trust and respect among the nations, Europe will be better and better in the future. I predict that the New Slovenia Group will today vote in favour of the Act ratifying the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and reiterate the expectation of good neighbourly relations, from 1 July forward in the spirit of the values of the fathers of a united Europe. The customs and methods that characterized our former common country are history. Now is the time for more respect and even more friendly co-existence in this part of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u20	All respects and greetings! Finally, I could say that the path Croatia and Slovenia have taken to ratifying the Croatian approach to the European Union, which is on our tables today, is long. At times, the country has stumbled upon the ups and downs of relations that have successfully overcome them. And it is hoped that, after today's vote, the friendly relations between countries will be even better. It connects a lot of things to our country. The historical flow often connected them into joint state creations, and they have many more in common. Finally, the group is a border here, which has not only connected the country at all times, but has also caused tension between them at times, as the border issue has been drawing ever since the independence of the two countries. Even though the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union has not led to a definitive solution to this issue, the countries have at least successfully agreed at this time on how to come to a solution and we can also consider this to be an important success, as the border issue is often used for internal political purposes both in Croatia and in Croatia, as it has also, of course, been reflected in relations that have not been best at times. However, an important step towards calming tensions was reached by the state through an arbitration agreement agreed upon by the then presidents of the governments, Mr Pahor and Mrs Kosor. I believe that this move has taken an important step that has removed from the table the most pressing issue, the burden of which was the ability to feel in relations between countries, in particular during the period just before the agreement was reached. However, with the arbitration agreement, relations between countries have become much more relaxed and the cooperation of both countries has become much better. This probably also had a positive impact on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held in June 2010, in which the electorate and the electorate agreed to the arbitration agreement – with a fairly small majority, however. How important for maintaining good relations is the political will to resolve open issues, we were later able to see again when we agreed on the issue of the former Ljubljana Bank, where Slovenia and Croatia were able to agree and thus remove the last obstacle that stood in the way of the ratification of the Association Agreement in the Slovenian Parliament. In Positive Slovenia, we have always maintained a constructive attitude in solving open issues with Croatia and have actively participated in the search for the best solutions for Slovenia. We are aware of the exceptional responsibility we bear when it comes to the strategic interests of Slovenia and its reputation in the international community. We are also aware of the fact that good neighbourly relations are not self-evident, but they are the product of the ongoing cooperation and upgrading process already achieved, and they need to be based on the search for what unites and unites and does not separate. People are the most connected in our country. Croatia's entry into the EU is therefore particularly pleased with the members of the Slovenian National Community, which lives in Croatia, in particular in the border areas of northern Istria, the Slovak hinterland, Gorski Kotor, Medžimurje, Ob Kolopija and Obsotel. For them, contact with the matrix will now be easier and the border will be easier to pass. They are also pleased that Slovenia will henceforth be surrounded only by the Member States of the European Union and the Schengen border will slowly move south of us. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore welcome Croatia's entry into the European Union, and we want the country to further deepen its bilateral relations and to act as coordinated as possible in the policy-making process at European level. Allow me to take this opportunity to thank all those who have helped us today to ratify Croatia's Association Agreement. It is therefore a thank-you to all Slovenian governments whose mandate coincided with Croatia's accession process to the European Union, to foreign ministers, to fellow Members and Members, to members of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy and to the project unit to prepare a hearing before the Court of Arbitration, and, of course, to the former Prime Minister and current President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, to thank Mr Janez Janša, former Prime Minister, who has already included the ratification of the Association Agreement at this meeting of the National Assembly and thus made it possible to adopt it more quickly. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I believe that this step will do us good for both countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u22	Dear President, President of the Government with ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law on the ratification of the Croatian Accession Treaty with the countries of the European Union. The law will be supported by the SDS Parliamentary Group. We look forward to a successful conclusion of the accession negotiations within the Group, as we have always supported the enlargement of the European Union to Croatia and the Western Balkan countries. We are aware that the European perspective of every country in this area has ensured the development, democracy and promise of stability for the entire region and Europe. Slovenia and Croatia have always linked the same values, and we are also accompanied by similar historical experiences. As a result, Croatia is expected to become part of the same association with a few years of delay. Negotiating and overcoming negotiating barriers has been long and difficult, and Slovenia has been the country most vitally affected by the negotiations. Nevertheless, we have maintained a sufficiently cooperative and tolerant attitude, although Croatia sometimes seems to have tried our negotiating persistence. At the conclusion of the negotiations in the parliamentary group, we wanted the Republic of Slovenia to be among the first countries with a ratified treaty, we wanted there to be no obstacles to our good purpose. This would be the logical continuation of always genuine neighbourly contacts and through centuries of never-sacred friendly relations between the Slovenian and Croatian people. Slovenia and Croatia and our people are a shining example of two neighbours who have never in history become involved in war or conflict, a rare and remarkable case between neighbours in European history. There's never been a big crack between us. In the context of institutions and countries where we were destined to live together in the past, Slovenian and Croatian representatives have always worked well together to be politicians, soldiers or artists. Let me mention only cooperation between the parliamentary clubs in the Danish Parliament under the leadership of Anton Korosca and Antej Trumbić. However, our cultures were always plentiful to each other. Excellent proof is the work of August Šenoe Nagelj from the poet's grave, which bears witness to the extraordinary respect and influence of Prešern on Croatian literature. Slovenia and Croatia live and respect Prešeren's dream, not the devil, but the neighbour will be the border. This is particularly true because this should be the basis for the future closer relations of both countries within the European Union. Regrettably, there was an obstacle to the prior ratification of the Treaty in the National Assembly, which was called the powers to sue and request foreign exchange depositors of the Ljubljana Bank, which constituted an attempt to deny a ratified international agreement on success. Your Honor! From this place we must congratulate the Government and Prime Minister Janez Janša, who, together with Croatian counterpart Zoran Milanović, reached a solution in the memorandum on the issue of the Ljubljana Bank. This removed the barriers to the ratification of the Treaty. Therefore, in the SDS Group of today's presence of the top political representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the National Assembly, which I welcome on this occasion, we see not only as a presence at the solemn ratification conclusion, but also as a commitment that the principle of the sunset servanda will always be respected and that the view of both countries will be directed towards future planning. Today's approval of the Treaty in the National Assembly is therefore a joint victory in one of the last stages of the Croatian negotiating jire, which will end with the membership of the Republic of Croatia on 1 July 2013. We believe that this is also the beginning of a stronger alliance, cooperation and friendship between the two countries within the European Union. The membership of both countries will be very useful for the economies and citizens of both countries and will have many positive consequences in all areas. In the Group of Members, we are confident that, from now on, both countries will work together to help the European Union's joint family to bring together the Western Balkan countries that are working to do so. Once again, we look forward to cooperation within the European Union and the Republic of Croatia in meeting the conditions of membership and entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you, too. I note that this has ended with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted at the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision. In doing so, I inform you that, in accordance with Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if two thirds of all Members vote for it, that is 60 or more. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We vote on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland [[Therefore, between the Member States of the European Union]] and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union by a Final Act. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Allow me, on this occasion, to welcome also the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanović, with a delegation that has joined us on the balcony. Nicely greeted! I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 12th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u24	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of India on regular air traffic and the Protocol on the amendment of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Indian Government on regular air traffic. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and also made a written report to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Please re-check the operation of the voting devices. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 11. On the eve of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of manila amendments, 2010, the annexes to the International Convention on Standards of Training, the issuance of appeals and the ship's watchdogs. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The proposal was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 14th item of the agenda, these are the Mandate-Voluntary matters. First of all, I will read which election issues we will decide or discuss: a proposal to elect a candidate for judicial office at the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj, Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, a proposal by the candidate for the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Proposal for a decision appointing the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly, Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of Security Intelligence Services, a finding on the termination of the mandate of a Member pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, a finding on the termination of the mandate of a Member under the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members. This is all about mandate-holder matters. We are now moving on to the first of the above-mentioned cases, this is the proposal to elect a candidate for judicial office at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Alexander Urankar to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of Mr Alexander Urrankar as a court of law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Governor of Banka Slovenije. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, wrote to the President of the Republic of Slovenia by letter dated 25. 3. 2013 proposed to the National Assembly for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Boštjan Jazbec. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Mrs Natashi Kovac for a supplementary explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u25	Hello, Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, sincerely thanks you for your active and successful participation so far in the selection and election of candidates for important state duties. At the same time, it is also recommended to continue this practice, which allows for sincere consultation, identification of the professional suitability of candidates, increased transparency of procedures and increased opportunities for broad support in the National Assembly. Without underestimating the decisions made so far, the President of the Republic underlines the particular importance of choosing the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, since he was further aware with you of the fact that, in the banking and financial environment at home and around the world, the choice of a candidate who meets the high professional criteria, while having broad political support, is extremely important. It is to enable the Bank of Slovenia to function smoothly and successfully, to increase its confidence in its mission to rehabilitate the Slovenian banking system and to cooperate successfully within the European Central Bank. The selection of a candidate with high professional references and broad support will be positive at home and in international financial markets. The President of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to the National Assembly that he appoint as Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, a university-graduate economist, a doctor of science, a senior consultant at the International Monetary Fund and an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana. His study and professional and scientific research path is constantly linked to the way in which monetary policy is managed, the functioning of central banks and the area of financial stability and its impact on the economy, both in his diploma at the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, where he received the Faculty's Prešeren Prize and the Prize of Banka Slovenije, both as part of a Master's degree at the Central European University in Prague and Budapest, which he completed with the award, both in his doctoral programme at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Vienna. This area is also the central theme of his current scientific research work at the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, where he is employed as an extraordinary professor for money and finance. He gained direct experience in the work of the Bank of Slovenia as a member of the Council of the Bank between 2003 and 2009. He also gained extremely valuable experience in addressing these issues in the international environment as senior adviser to the International Monetary Fund at the Central Bank of the Republic of Kosovo and lastly as advisor to the Governor of the central bank of Suriname in South America. The appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is an important action, as it is one of the most important regulatory and supervisory national institutions, and if this appointment is without complications with rather high support and within the envisaged time frame, it means replacing management without disruptions to the work of this important institution. The advantages mentioned by Prof. Jazbec and the new receptions, as he presented them in the presentations in the parliamentary groups, will make such an important contribution to enhancing the reputation and trust of the Bank of Slovenia, as well as other financial institutions of the country. The choice of Dr. Boštjan Jazbec in this regard proved more than appropriate. Dr. Boštjan Jazbec is fully aware of the responsibilities that will be entrusted to him by your support and by assuming the required responsibilities of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia this summer. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor is convinced that Dr. Boštjan Jazbec deserves your trust and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much for this additional explanation. The proposal dealt with the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body and also reported in writing to the assembly. A presentation of the views of the groups of Members is in turn. The first is Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The financial situation in the country is poor. The problems of our banking system were not resolved within the mandate of the Pahor government, underestimated and suppressed under the carpet. Following a statement made by Prime Minister Pahor earlier, neither the real measures were taken nor the crisis lasted longer than predicted. The European economies, particularly the German economies, did not pull us out of the crisis in line with expectations, especially because we did not do enough ourselves because they went empty in essence for three years. The passive approach led to a successful and less painful resolution of the crisis. Janša's government has made an integrated commitment to public finances, the banking system and the management of state assets, all three of which have a decisive impact on the state's financial situation and on the assessments made by the credit institutions and other important institutions. This is important because the country is not financially self-sufficient and requires additional financial resources for its operations, and it does not, under what conditions, receive them, but also because countries with favourable circumstances can also expect the interest of external investors. So this was where a big leap was needed. All fundamental objectives have been achieved, public finances have been tackled through a combination of savings and incentives, facilitations, incentives and administrative simplifications. From the banking system, the bad claims of banks on the so-called bad bank are eliminated and the previously dispersed management of state property by the Slovenian State Holding Act has been unified. This is therefore a comprehensive approach, which has also been largely coordinated with European institutions. The first and most difficult steps in all three areas have been taken, although political and union blockades in one year of operation of the previous government have led to a six-year delay, which we will pay very dearly. The banking system, which is in an important part of state ownership, has neither been well managed nor well controlled. The Bank of Slovenia regulator and its authorities, in the opinion of many, have not done their tasks sufficiently and have used their powers and powers. It wasn't real. Strong action has also prevented the rotation of staff between business banks and the Bank of Slovenia. Many, measures or sanctions of the Bank of Slovenia have probably been detected of all kinds of errors and abuses. That's why we got so deep. Today we decide on a new person at the top of the banking authority, the governor. From Dr. Boštjan Jazbec's candidate, who has excellent references and who has shown great knowledge and willingness to act, guidelines and direction of action, we expect that it will work decisively, as he predicted before the necessary measures, that he will not hesitate to do everything necessary to clear up the bad claims of the banking system, so that he will lead the active support of the poor bank's projects and also that the banking system will be cleansed, regained confidence and began to perform the functions for which it exists and why we need it. However, we expect that it will allow the detection of those who, with poor or even illegal crime and activities, have caused these problems of the banking system, which we have not been able to address even with high recapitalisations. For such decisive action and action, we have our votes. We hope we don't give them to him for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u29	Respected and respected! Slovenia must regain its trust. The confidence of citizens and citizens in the country, the confidence of the international business environment in our economy, confidence in the rule of law, social justice, the ability of the state and the community to push our way to recovery and then the well-being of Slovenian society. In short, the confidence of all our people in the future and the confidence of Slovenia itself. The fact is that we have lost this trust because of a series of missed moves, because of a series of wrong examples and unacceptable motives. We believe that the only way to look at history is to learn from past mistakes the lessons we need for the future. We have a clear view of what went wrong in Slovenia, that from an exemplary country and a healthy progressive economy we have turned into a witnessing Slovenian economic and social reality. The Bank of Slovenia has a special place in this regard. As part of the European monetary authority, as regulator and as supervisor of the banking system, the central bank has an important responsibility. Responsibility for us to be in a worse position today due to unsustainable, unsustainable growth and excessive indebtedness than if all branches of government, including the central bank, were to be able to recognize in a timely manner the ripples, the rapid growth that has broken into the accumulated problems of the country and the economy in the emergence of the global economic and financial crisis. It also has the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia to strengthen opportunities for recovery by smart policy and Slovenian voice in determining the euro monetary policy, as well as the consistent implementation of the role of the regulator of the banking system, to set up a proactive policy and the government and the parliament to help create a credible plan to solve problems and restore the economy. In doing so, we appreciate the contribution that the Bank of Slovenia has made in recent months with its plan to get out of the crisis. Dr. Bostian Jazbec deserves a chance. Social Democrats recognise his expertise, reputation and rich experience. But in our assessment of whether our vote deserves our wide support in this House, we are thorough and faithful to the critical attitude so far, to the neoliberal economic policies and measures that have now been pursued by the former government. We met with the candidate for Governor of Banka Slovenije and in a limited time we found that despite some of the points of reference we do not share a common view of the way we need to embark on an economic recovery. In doing so, we note the differences in terms of excessive capital requirements, the resolution of over-indebted enterprises, the preservation of healthy cores of the economy, the rehabilitation of banks, the cost of the transfer of bad claims, the ownership of banks, the licensing of supervisors of the guarantee scheme for the start-up of lending and so on. Some of our essential questions remain unanswered before today's vote. Since we respect the independence of the central bank, we have not been among those who have thundered over the Bank of Slovenia's policy so far, because we respect the independence of the central bank, we are today also reserved for the support of a respected candidate. We are aware that independence also means the principle of non-interference with the work of monetary authority and that this principle requires us to have a special responsibility in assessing whether the proposed candidate is our choice with its indisputable knowledge and experience on the one hand and on the other hand our economic idea. The fact is that we have set a different order of priorities and choices for the President of the Republic. We want Slovenia as a country and as a community to gain the best in its knowledge, will, energy and ability to restore the lost confidence, to establish new cooperation between institutions and people, to draw up a credible economic recovery plan that will address all the key problems of the Slovenian economy. On the one hand, therefore, the necessity for effective fiscal consolidation, but also the need to strengthen growth and employment as the key we need to restore market confidence in Slovenia's ability to service its obligations. Social Democrats wish Dr. Boštjan Jazbec a success, and we will not support him today with our votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group National List, Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the Civil Gazette, we will support the proposal of the President of the Republic to appoint Dr. Boštjan Jazbec as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. It is undeniable that Dr. Jazbec is an expert with appropriate references and experience, well-known by the Bank of Slovenia, since he has worked as a member of the Council of the Bank for five years, has experience and reputation within the International Monetary Fund. Not only the expertise, after the presentation of Dr. Jazbec in the Group of Members, we are confident that he will bring a new, fresh approach to the Bank of Slovenia and that the candidate is the right person to restore the trust and reputation of this important institution. However, we expect the Bank of Slovenia, under its leadership, to participate well in its coordinating and professional role in the resolution of the banking system and later to carry out its mission to oversee the stability of the financial system. Probably some work is also in the area of reorganisation of Banka Slovenije and cost cuts, as Banka Slovenije, for example, has increased the number of its employees despite its smaller role, since monetary policies are virtually no longer running, and the poor work has not seen rapid growth in debt in specific parts of the economy. We wish Dr. Jazbec a successful job, and above all a lot of wisdom and prudence in the Governor's job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will be very pleased to support the candidate for the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Professor Boštjan Jazbec. Among all the candidates who have shown an interest in this function, the candidate is promising the most freshness and vision we need at this point. It probably does not need to be emphasized how Slovenia is in a situation where it will have to admit that many of the concepts of economic policy management were also far from optimal, if not even flawed, in terms of the performance of the banking sector. We were therefore of the opinion in the Slovenian People's Party that now is the time to give an opportunity to younger faces who are not burdened by the past in both the political and economic spheres. Studies in Budapest, Prague, Vienna and the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana testify that this is a candidate with a top education, with emphasis on analyses of transition economies, such as Slovenian. As a former member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, he certainly knows the structure of our central banking institution. At the presentation of the candidate in our parliamentary group, we have also convinced members of the Slovenian People's Party that the candidate in the event of high professionalism also lacks the ability to communicate simply, that is, the ability to explain more complex economic problems in a simple way. For this is exactly what we expect in the current times of crisis from the Governor: that he will be able to describe the situation in a simple language to the Slovenian public and thus increase understanding of certain requirements for urgent structural changes, which are an integral part of the development and progress of every successful country. Dear Members, in the Slovenian People's Party we have been critical in the past to the work of the Bank of Slovenia. The institution, which lost part of its primary monetary policy tasks by entering the euro area, should focus its personnel resources on the tasks of overseeing the operation of the banking system, and the Bank of Slovenia does not appear to have detected an extraordinary credit expansion in the years 2005-2009 nor has it performed its task as an active regulator and supervisor immediately after the start of the economic and financial crisis. Although a number of people give themselves hot bones about responsibility, the conclusion is that the situation in the banking system is poor and a state intervention will be needed. This is a fact and a good part of the responsibility is also borne by the Bank of Slovenia. Thus, of course, the candidate for governor also answered questions as to how he could see options for solving problems in the banking system. As we understand it, he is also in favour of the concept of rehabilitation through the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks. We have heard days ago that this government will continue the good projects of the previous government, including the rehabilitation of the banking system, and the Bank of Slovenia will play an even greater role in this. It is therefore gratifying to note that the candidates' views on this topic do not differ significantly from that of the previous government coalition on how to solve the problems of the banking system. Dear candidate, if you are elected for the next six years, you will assume one of the most respected functions in the country in the public eye. Therefore, we expect you to draw your expert team's attention to any wrong political moves in the management of economic policies, regardless of who will lead the country during your term of office. As has already been said, you have the support of Members of the Slovenian People's Party and we wish you a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. One more nice greeting to my colleagues and colleagues. When we were invited to the first information interview with the President of the State regarding the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, our Group of Members did not have its own proposal, but waited for the proposal of the President of the Republic. This proposal took place, the President of the Republic proposed Mr Boštjan Jazbec as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Mr Jazbec also completed his presentation last week in our parliamentary group, trying to convince him of his suitability for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. He was more than successful in this regard, as he received unanimous support from Members and Members of the said Commission in the framework of the Committee on Elections. Mr Jazbec has therefore also convinced Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia that it is appropriate for them to take over this function, so we will also unanimously support it. He convinced us with his clear, simple and understandable presentation and with his vision for the resolution of the Slovenian banking system. Of course, we cannot overlook his successful career and scientific research path, which is always intertwined with monetary policy and finance. The fact is that the central bank's financial crisis has put it in a new light; and ours is no exception either. Therefore, it is essential that we place a person at the head of the Bank of Slovenia who is unburdened by the difficulties of transition, is professionally subdued and has domestic and international experience. In the Group of Members, we believe that Mr Jazbec meets these criteria. We also assess that timely replacement at the head of such an important institution as the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is very important for the communication of the international community that we are ready and determined to solve our banking problems and problems. As we say, Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the proposal of the President of the Republic to appoint Mr Jazbec as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u37	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, welcome! The fact is that the banking system crisis prevents economic recovery. At the same time, we ask many times why taxpayers should be, all citizens of this banking system, even though we are not responsible for this crisis in one way or another. But many times we have come to the conclusion that jobs depend on this rehabilitation of the banking system, and this is a key reason why we must all make the greatest efforts together to get this rehabilitation done as soon as possible. Banka Slovenije represents one of the fundamental elements of the banking system and it is right that we appoint as governor the best candidate Slovenia can overcome. I am sure that in Dr. Jazbec we have found a candidate with the right knowledge, with good references, and above all with the right will for change. But the key to all this seems to me to have very broad political support. This means that no one will be able to attribute it to each other and will not even be able to report it to each other. This is an extremely important journey for him and for the city of governor. Slovenia is running out of time and anyone who can do anything in the banking system should do it as soon as possible. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that there is no point in philosophicalizing whether it is neoliberal or other measures, and it is essential that these measures work and produce results. When Dr. Jazbec was in the New Slovenia Group, he presented some very simple, concrete solutions that, according to our assessment, work. He also said that he would actively strive to accomplish these things. This is one of the key things why Dr. Boštjan Jazbec has the support of New Slovenia. As stated, Nova Slovenija will unanimously support Dr. Boštjana Jazbec's candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much. There is also the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u39	Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Positive Slovenia was addressed by Dr. Boštjan Jazbec at the meeting of our parliamentary group. The doctor of the monetary economy convinced us with clear and unequivocal answers to the broad range of content that we Members have opened up in our conversation with him. We touched on the rehabilitation of banks, credit crunches, including changes in ownership structures, and also announced a more active central bank on its basis, a supervisory function. Due to the crisis of the banking sector and the current situation, it is so important that the post of Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is occupied by a competent person with a clearly designed vision; and this is certainly Dr. Boštjan Jazbec. In addition, he has academic knowledge, including experience, both in Banka Slovenije and in the international space. Dr. Jazbec said in the last days, among other things, "I'm old enough, but I'm young enough to have to work 20 more years. The motivation to do good is therefore large enough, because I know that if I do bad things, whatever door I close. And vice versa; of course, according to the experience of the Bank of Slovenia and the International Monetary Fund, I also have enough confidence to want to do something." This statement also made an impression on us in Positive Slovenia. The Witness about confidence, knowledge, will and we estimate that this is what we need in Slovenia. Not just at the central bank. In recent months, the National Assembly has taken a number of types of decisions and has taken responsible decisions in virtually unanimous terms. Among them was the pension reform, this year's state budget and a few hours ago the ratification of the European Union's Association Agreement with the Republic of Croatia. After the first responses of the groups, Dr. Jazbec also looks forward to relatively high support in this assembly. I am pleased with such messages, and I am sure that citizens and citizens also support them. However, I regret that Slovenian policy has had to be on two banks for so many years and that it has only been deterred by a serious threat. I hope there comes a time when we will no longer divide the candidates for the governor into left and right, but for the professionally competent and those who are not. I hope that the high consensus between Members and Members will soon be no longer an exception. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we believe that the President of the Republic has submitted a good proposal to the National Assembly, so we unanimously adopted the position that Dr. Boštjana Jazbec should be supported as a suitable candidate for the future Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. First of all, he has the word Franz Bogovich, who isn't here. Mrs Jasmina Opec – no. Mr. Jakob the Presector – no. Mr. Janez Ribič – no. Mr. Ivan Grill is next, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that we have the euro unit in Slovenia and that it is a large part of this supervisor at the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia is an extremely important institution in ensuring the financial stability of our country. In view of the fact that our banks are in great financial difficulties and as a result also businesses and this credit crunch in general, it is Banka Slovenije that will have to have significantly more influence and tasks in the future, and in particular the activities to help repair our banking system. What can now be heard from the current Governor that Banka Slovenije has done what was in its power is somewhat unusual, since those who are very familiar with these matters in the professional sense claim quite contrary to the fact that Banka Slovenije, unfortunately, in its supervisory and regulatory functions has not been successful enough to carry it out. That is why the task of future Governor Jazbec will now be so important that, at a time which he has very limited in front of him, he can, as quickly as possible, along with the rest of the laws and other institutions, be able to remedy our banking system as soon as possible. I am also pleasantly surprised that Mr Jazbec will be given such high support in this high assembly and this should not be unusual. I believe that the reason is whether we can look for it in that this function has not been overly politicised in the past months when the actual competitions for this have taken place. The consequence of excessive politicisation is always that if it is manipulated in advance by some "chosen candidates", those who feel capable enough do not even hope or want to report because they are somehow in fear of being discredited in this way. This has obviously not been the case, and also President Pahor's procedure has been carried out correctly and we have received, I believe, a candidate with a lot of professional references, international reputation, probably ambitiousness, energy enough to carry out this important work with all responsibility. I am going to support it myself, despite the fact that the secret elections will be happy to support it and I wish it a success, but above all, I hope that it will not, in the future, run into those problems or problems that we will have to face with the necessary legislative changes and with the other measures that it will need to carry out its work successfully. Again: I wish him a lot of work – I think he will have a lot of work to do, but a lot of success in this certainly hard work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. He'll probably have a lot of work to do, too. Mr Ljubo Žnidar is the next debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u43	Your Honor! The Governor of Banka Slovenije is a function in which all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must be trusted, not only financiers, but not only Members of the National Assembly. With his professional and professional work, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec created this confidence in me. Its solutions are very simple but extremely effective. I will give you just one example of how to transfer bad claims to a bad bank; not that bad claims are transferred, but that banks should provide or convert bad claims into equity first. This is one extremely good measure that I think is really in place. I would say that the candidate for governor is so good that the current Minister of Finance should go to his school for a little while. But I'm afraid I wouldn't finish first grade, but that the finance minister would sooner put the state financially on its knees. I fully trust Dr. Boštjana Jazbec myself and wish him a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The panellists are no longer registered. The vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will take place after the conclusion of the discussion on the proposal for the appointment of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Group of 11 Members and Members with the first signed Richard Branisle is the State Assembly 2. 4. 2013 proposed to elect Mrs Polonco Komar as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Does the proposer want a word for further explanation? Mr. Braniselle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ambassador and candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia Polonco Komar went to Ljubljana after her degree at the Faculty of Economics in the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. Her 18-year journey to RTV led her through marketing and promotion activities, while her experience was enhanced as a manager of development communication programming projects, management of human resources, and as head of the Public Relations Service. Work on various but related projects gave her a broad view of the functioning of the public institution, both in terms of its organisational structure and a wider view of Slovenian media space. This journey was well integrated by Polonca Komar's colleague in her work. In 2011, voters and voters recognized the experience and freshness of Slovenian political space in the early state elections. The very political unburden led her work in the National Assembly, where she is actively involved in the work of six working bodies. It is worth noting that the work of the Committees of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union and Foreign Affairs has been further upgraded by the Member as an active member in groups of friendship with 22 countries around the world and as a member of two permanent delegations of the National Assembly: in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and in the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative. Among the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, let us mention its role in the Committee on Culture, Science, Education and the media, where it has proved to be a rapporteur as a new political face. The colleague Polonca Komar is also a member of the ALDE Group within the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. People recognize it as a patient Member who is particularly close to the culture of dialogue and respect for diversity. We believe that these virtues, along with their experiences and active work in the National Assembly, give Members Polonci Komar a good journey to carry out the duties of Vice-President of the National Assembly. We propose to support colleague Polonco Komar in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you so much for this presentation. It is now up to Members and Members to present their views if they wish to present their views, if not, if they wish to discuss them. But if no one wants to discuss it, then we will conclude this point or this debate. We are moving on to a vote on the Republic President's proposal for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act and in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already submitted proposals for the members of the panel leading this vote. These members are: Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Branko Kurnjek and Mrs Iva Dimic. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We decide on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes shall be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted by surrounding "yes" or "against" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will be appointed if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, 46 or more. The candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, however, will be elected in accordance with Article 199, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure, if also voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed votes to the ballot box, which will be placed at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin in 10 minutes, which is at 4:15 p.m., and will last until 4:15 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which we continue at 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u47	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Governor of Banka Slovenije. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 2 April 2013. 86 ballots were distributed, and 86 votes were also delivered. There were two votes invalid, 84 votes valid. 77 Members or Members voted against by 7 Members. [[It was 77 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec was appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. Congratulations! [[Applause]] We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 2 April 2013. 86 votes were distributed, 86 votes were also cast, 4 votes were invalid, 82 votes were valid. 73 Members and Members voted against 9 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the 9th.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Polonca Komar was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. Congratulations! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u48	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a candidate for Minister of Infrastructure and Space. The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek is 29. 3. 2013 She proposed that Mr Sam Omerzel be appointed Minister of Infrastructure and Space. I give the floor on this occasion to the President of the Magi Government. Alenki Bratušek for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u49	Your Honor, a nice hello again. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is now one of the most important sources for Positive Slovenia. Why? Because throughout the year, we have warned the previous governments that infrastructure projects are what can help with economic growth and new jobs. That's all, although there was a lot of speculation about why this area is so important for Positive Slovenia. Mr Maher, by his decision, has relieved the Government of its business with itself, for which I thank him once again. At the same time, his case opened Pandora’s box of problems he would face and had to be solved by a new minister. In 1974, only Omerzel was born in Brežice. He graduated from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in the direction of robotics. Today he is a successful entrepreneur, an internationally recognised innovator and an occasional lecturer. He is currently the director of two companies. With his creative ideas and creativity, he admired his professors as Zois' fellow. However, he began to think about his own business path in the second year of robotics study when he began to develop industrial control systems. Shortly thereafter, he became the leader of the development team, continued his career as Director of Business Development and quickly assumed the role of the first man in two technology-oriented companies after a successful study. In view of the above, I consider Mr Sam Omerzel to be a suitable candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on Infrastructure and Space and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the Committee and it is also published on the so-called bench. Only the text of the Committee's report will be presented by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u51	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague! The President of the Government is 29. 3. 2013 She submitted to the President of the National Assembly a proposal for a Minister for Infrastructure and Space in which she proposes that the State Assembly for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space be appointed Sam Omerzel. The candidate for Minister shall be in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. 2013 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Infrastructure and Space Committee. At the beginning of the opening presentation, the Minister's candidate presented his current career and business path in a comprehensive and precise manner. In doing so, he stressed that he always has a systematic approach to solving tasks, that he is a team player and that teamwork is crucial for success, particularly in a large ministry such as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. He also said that the scope of the ministry's work was great, that it was aware of its great responsibility to lead it, and that it would put maximum effort into doing so. He stressed that he wanted to act exactally and make decisions on the basis of real data, so as a minister he would trust the profession and work with experts in his work. In addition, the candidate for minister presented basic guidelines and programming priorities for individual work areas of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. He said that he would come from the programme of his predecessor, Minister Igor Maher, that his programme would support and continue with him as it was based on real foundations. In the area of spatial policy, it will first seek to amend spatial legislation, which will simplify and significantly reduce the placement of facilities into space. In doing so, it advocates the establishment of a two-phase procedure for obtaining a building permit. It advocates the modernisation of electronic commerce in the area of space. In the field of energy, it advocates additional investment in production facilities, especially renewable sources, and thus the need to maintain the electricity system in good condition. It is necessary to continue with the preparation of a new national energy programme, to complete the construction project of block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica and to complete the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava as soon as possible. In the area of housing policy, it is also committed to solving housing problems by means of a model of interest rate subsidisation and crediting, establishing and regulating the area of rentals with appropriate incentives, regulating real estate records and controlling empty dwellings, examining the proposal to transform the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia into a 100 % state-owned company. In the field of transport and maritime transport, the priorities of Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railway are to be considered as one system, while Luka Koper must remain the leading port in the region; the introduction of a single information system for public passenger transport; the resolution of the problem of putting facilities into space; the continuation of the project of the second railway track Divac-Koper. In the area of infrastructure projects construction, it is necessary to launch those state infrastructure projects that are a condition for economic development, in the first stage in particular investment in the wood processing industry in relation to energy. In putting transport, energy and water infrastructures into space, cooperation and coordination between different government departments should be improved. At the end of his presentation, the Minister's candidate briefly took up the key tasks of the Ministry, which he wanted to take over: the establishment of a project council that will have investment control, the further development of the Port of Koper and the Slovenian Railways, the resolution of the housing problem, the improvement of transport, energy and water infrastructure in the space, closer cooperation between government departments, support for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava. Members and members of the committee asked the candidate for minister a question and expressed certain concerns. The proposed candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space answered the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee and informed them of his views, opinions and views, as well as of the proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to his future activities at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. After the presentation and the replies were completed, the committee adopted the following opinion by 9 votes to 5: The presentation of Sam Omerzel as the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thanks for the report. I am opening the possibility of applying for a discussion or presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anyone want a word on behalf of the MPs? He does. I am opening the possibility of applying on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. I give the floor to Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u53	Honourable President of the Government, President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! 13 days ago, the National Assembly voted on the election of the new government of President Alenka Bratušek. The Slovenian People's Party's Group did not support this government for several reasons. Once again, let me mention only the key among it – the short and indeterminate coalition agreement promises within one year to solve all the problems of this country, with the lack of answers to the essential questions: in what way measures and, most importantly, the sources of funding are taken. As a matter of fact, after the short term and rapid withdrawal of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Igor Maher, we are voting today on the new candidate of the same Prime Minister. At today's hearing, the candidate for the new Minister, Sam Omerzel, in our opinion, correctly presented his business career, which has so far been in economic waters. This experience will certainly benefit him in his further work. The candidate presented his key points to the members of the Infrastructure and Space Committee both in the field of transport – road, rail, air and maritime – in the field of housing policy, energy and spatial planning. On our part, expectations were expressed that, for the first time, European funds would be drawn up more quickly, particularly in the field of rail infrastructure and energy rehabilitation of public-owned buildings. Secondly, to prepare the national energy programme as soon as possible and to implement the energy strategy. Thirdly, to continue the placement and to begin the construction of important road development axes as soon as possible. In the Slovenian People's Party, we promise to support the future Minister in his efforts to achieve these objectives, but we will act critically if necessary. Of course, only Omerzel can't count on our votes, because we're not in the coalition. The distinguished candidate on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group wishes you a successful work and a lot of smart decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you, too. Ms Renata Brunskole will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u55	Dear Madam President of the Government, distinguished Mr President, colleague and colleague! Mr Samo Omerzel, candidate for Minister of Infrastructure and Space, convinced us at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space that he was a suitable candidate for the Minister. He gave a comprehensive presentation of his successful work so far in the field of the economy, and we can say that in his candidacy for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space we see the right candidate in today's time when the integration of the economy is needed, that is to say, cooperation between all the departments. His innovation in the past work, project Vendotel, was awarded with the Eureka Venture Forum Award in Istanbul 2012. So, Mr Only Omerzel has proven that his work has been successful by now. He replied to questions from Members and Members of Parliament in a sovereign, decisive manner and also stressed that he would learn more about certain matters when he became Minister for Infrastructure and Space. He stressed that he would continue the programme of Mr Igor Maher, former Minister of Infrastructure and Space, who also stressed the coalition agreement. Therefore, it considers that the programme is based on the real foundations and scope of all areas of transport infrastructure, spatial topics in which it wants to simplify administrative procedures and legislation in the energy, environmental and spatial fields, in putting road, that is, development axes in space, rail, maritime and energy, it also gives support to aviation. As his key tasks, he highlighted the establishment of a project council that will have control over investments. In terms of transport and maritime transport, he would like to stress as a priority that the Luke Koper projects and the 2nd track of the Divača-Koper railway are as one system. He doesn't think Luke Koper without the railroads and the railroad without Luke Koper makes any sense. Luka Koper must remain the leading port in the region, which is our strategic point in the Republic of Slovenia. He stressed that he would carefully choose priorities, and in particular will be closely linked to economic support in both the areas of construction, investment and production support and, above all, support for the Slovenian economy. In the field of energy, he stressed that Slovenian energy is of paramount importance. He wants more cooperation between the two energy pillars, especially in the professional sense. Project TES 6 needs to be completed as soon as possible. Support is given to investments both in the Central Sava, the completion of the investment in the lower Savi, and the Slovenian energy strategy should also be adopted in support of the wood industry. It will be imperative to resolve the housing policy in which the proposal is to transform the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia into a 100 % state-owned company in order to have a greater opportunity to use grants in the European Union. It supports a single public passenger information system with a single card. It gives great importance to inter-departmental coordination between ministries. On the basis of everything we have said in the Group of Positive Slovenia, we have decided to support Mr Sam Omerzel as Minister for Infrastructure and Space. In his work, we want him to work as effectively and successfully as he has done so far, and also in some segments as he has done so far. We wish him great success and, above all, for the help of our President of the Government!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u57	Dear President, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The distinguished candidate Sam Omerzel at today's presentation did not create confidence in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on the suitability for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space. Many questions were raised, which are strategic and important for the Republic of Slovenia at this time. The spatial placement of state infrastructure projects was highlighted as a priority; the solution of the candidate is seen in good cooperation with other ministerial departments. Changes in the acquisition of building permits are announced, which is intended to be two-stage again, but without specific division of powers between the administrative unit and the municipalities. One of the pressing and very important issues is the resolution of Dars' financial obligations over the next two years. It states here that a business partner must be sought. This decision and this solution will have to be found this year. We know that immediately next year this financial commitment will fall and must be resolved by then; it is said to have a solution for this year at the table. In the field of railways, which we know to be wide, difficult and somehow long-term, the solution to this problem has not really been exposed to any segment. I also missed the many times mentioned by our parade horse, Luca Koper, but without financial, strategic, manual, forward direction in the future. Of course, I was satisfied with the answer that the candidate would fulfill the promise from the coalition record to lower the price of electricity by 1. 7. by 10 %. All citizens will be happy to do so. In short, the minister has a decision to make. In his presentation today, there was no direction of rescue, so the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space will not receive support from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. We are also moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The debates may take up to five minutes. In the absence of pre-declared debaters, MEPs and Members shall report from the outside, with only one discussion to be held. However, the President of the Government may report on several occasions to the debate. Anybody want to talk? There is an interest in the debate, so I invite you to sign up for the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr. Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, President of the Government, President of the National Assembly! What do citizens and citizens actually think? 13 days ago, we elected a new government — that is, a government coalition. You're coming in today with the minister's replacement. Of course, I will not support it myself because I belong to the quota of opposition Members. The coalition said they saw a real candidate in it. Where were you coalition partners 13 days ago? Why didn't you bring him in then, elect him, and now you can work? Moreover, the Prime Minister of the Government said that he had resigned and thus relieved the Government and was truly able to thank him. You know, if I said that for at least ten years he couldn't run for any public office or anything like that, that within 14 days he had to undermine what he doesn't agree on, I'd give the President of the Government, I'd say, some hope to this country. According to data from 2011 and 2012, when there were more than 7,000 reports of black constructions, Mr Sam Omerzel would also expect him to say something about it. We have obviously bad legislation, which our coalition government has not been able to fix and prepare to destroy certain buildings, not after 9, 15 years on fields, meadows or national parks, to say anything about it. Colleagues and colleagues, nothing's gonna happen! You tell citizens and citizens that you will also not reach out to the new minister. You know, if only two objects were to be demolished a day, it would take 10 years for all this shit. For some who can, if they are close enough to the authorities, if they are close enough to those who should decide and what to decide – as Marka Jaklič is close enough to Mr Zoran Jankovic, and nothing has happened to him in eight years, so Igor Maher, who was an excellent five-day minister, probably won't get hurt. Even more; it was said that the new Minister Sam Omerzel would continue the work of former Minister Igor Maher. Who are you kidding? It is possible to get out of the opposition, because it can be purchased from a large majority in this country, but citizens and citizens will not buy it. It's not that simple. It is time for us to grow up with a new coalition, of course in a negative sense, regret — to start dealing with the problems of this country and to solve them. But none of this is going to happen, let alone to address the problem of space, spatial planning, which is completely disorderly and will obviously remain that way for a long time. Today, I would expect, not only that only Omerzel will announce – a new candidate for minister, who will also be elected today by the coalition, which is normal – a change in legislation and also in this area, but none of this has been done. By doing so, you may come back in 10 days or 5 days again with any exchange of minister or minister, and you do not give any hope to citizens and citizens who have lost their jobs, so to speak, on the road and no longer have to survive from day to day.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. The next panellist is Mr Ivan Vogrin. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My intention is not to criticize existing procedures or existing people. If you have noticed, I am trying to point out systemic errors; due to systemic errors, Slovenia is in bankruptcy, not because of specific people or specific procedures. I will state exactly what I think, and I think most will agree with you. A while ago, all the Members and Members of Parliament received an e-mail opinion from one of the citizens, and he wrote: "I ask you to have as many closed sessions as possible for the public, because we are hard to see and we are even harder to listen to." And that's a general opinion! Well, if we think about it, there's some truth to it. I'll try to explain with a concrete procedure. The specific candidate for minister presented himself to the committee. It is not possible to determine, on the basis of one committee hearing, whether it is appropriate or inappropriate. That'll tell time. Therefore, such a system-wide procedure is inefficient, useless and has proved to be completely unsuccessful in 21 years. In fact, about 11 ministerial teams have been introduced and 6 or 7 government presidents. The result – negative economic growth and here Dr. Tomaž Subotic wrote that the deficit, the fall of the social gross product, means the same loss at country level as at company level. Again, what would you think of me sitting here and knowing me if you started to explain how well I ran the company? That I'm crazy! What do citizens think if we're falling if we're lost, like a country? What do they think of us? And we explain how we're the best, the best candidates, and so on. It does not contain serious judgment, so it is increasingly difficult for more citizens to look and listen to us. That is why I propose that we end the committee hearing. I propose that in explaining whether the candidate is good or not when the then coalition, as it is, is, because of the cost-effectiveness of the procedure, rationality, because we will not make fun of ourselves and of the citizens, we say that the President of the Government in this case proposes a candidate without discussion and is confirmed by the debate is in any way unproductive – I speak on the basis of historical facts, 21 years of experience. Of course, during the ministry, it shows whether the government was successful, whether it was an individual or so. A small opinion on the so-called Order of Montenegro. Mr Pukšič, my colleague, has also looked at this. I think we're doing the wrong thing: when someone new comes along, they tear it all down. Former Minister Cernac had good intentions — what the new government also says: simplifying the process, reducing costs and so on. And another, a little different opinion from some here. Jakliè's construction was mentioned. I'll ask you something else. After what I've been able to see on TV, in the newspapers, it's a beautiful object that fits the space. What can we do to bring this down — to the detriment of an individual! Whether it is our fundamental intention to do harm or not to step a little more cleverly and say that existing constructions that do not cause serious damage to the space are legalised and the state should collect compensation. We need money, not the damage we do to an individual. In the final stages, it comes back to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you, too. All those who wanted to discuss it got their word. I note that there is no longer a desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Mr Samo Omerzel is appointed Minister of Infrastructure and Space. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 29. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that Mr Samo Omerzel is appointed Minister of Infrastructure and Space. / applause/ I congratulate the Minister on his appointment and wish him the success of his duties. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u63	Hello! I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u64	If you'd like, Mr. Secretary, to address the National Assembly, you have a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for your confidence, and I promise you that I will work hard and make wise decisions. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-02-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you, too. Allow me to personally congratulate you on your election. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 48th meeting, held on 2 April 2013, adopted a decision setting out the number of seats of the members of the working groups in the working bodies of the National Assembly and determining the members of the parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the decision adopted, the parliamentary groups made proposals for presidents, presidents and vice-presidents or vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In view of the proposals received, a proposal for a decision has been prepared which you have received and is also published on the e-club. Would the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? I'm guessing there's no desire to discuss it. Would any of the Members and Members like to discuss it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In accordance with the decision adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 48th session, 2. 4. The 2013 parliamentary groups made proposals for the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission. You have received or published the draft decision on the e-club. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the groups? I guess not. Do any of the Members and Members wish to discuss it? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusion on the Peace of a Member's term of office pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members. The Government forwarded the decision of 28 to the National Assembly. 3. In 2013, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič was appointed Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, the following decision be taken: 3. 2013 notes that Member Gaspar Gaspar Misic has been appointed Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government, and therefore since 2. 4. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, 2013 shall not be able to act as a Member while acting as Secretary of State. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission of that decision and ask it to communicate to the National Assembly which candidate or candidate will be in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of the said Member's Compensation. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will prepare a report and propose to the assembly approval of the mandate of the new Member or Member of Parliament. I thank my former fellow Member for his work in the National Assembly and wish him much success in his new duties. We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusions on the Peace of the mandate of the Member on the basis of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members. The Government forwarded the decision of 28 to the National Assembly. 3. 2013 which indicates that Ambassador Tamara Vont was appointed Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, the following decision be taken: National Assembly on the basis of a decision of the Government of 28. 3. 2013 notes that Ambassador Tamara Vont has been appointed Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government responsible for establishing a dialogue with civil society and coordinating citizens' initiatives, as of 2. 4. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, 2013 shall not be able to act as an MP as long as she is acting as Secretary of State. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission of that decision and ask it to communicate to the Assembly which candidate or candidate is to be replaced by that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will prepare a report and propose to the assembly approval of the mandate of the new Member or Member of Parliament. I also thank my former fellow Members for their work in the National Assembly and wish her much success in carrying out her new duty. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 12th meeting of the National Assembly.
