ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members – this time the list is a little longer: Mrs Polonca Komar, mag. Katarina Hočevar, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mr Michael Prevc, Mr Roberto Battelli, mag. Marco Pogačnik, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Andrej Čuš, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Robert Hrovat, mag. Stefan Tessel, Mr. Franz Breznik, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. I invited representatives of the Council of State and representatives of the Government to both agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday, 17 July 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda, so please check the operation of the voting devices. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's for a re-declaration of the Luck Tax Act. At its 2nd extraordinary meeting on 17 July 2013, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Law on the Tax of Fortunes. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Alojz Kovška.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Explaining the State Council’s request that this esteemed congregation decide again on the law, you have received it on the bench, so I will not read it to you, but allow me just a few words to explain our will or our consideration of the law itself. First of all, I would like to say that the State Council did not wish to impose its decision and that the decision of the State Council does not have ideological or positional opposition last-minute intentions. It is a matter of serious consideration as to what consequences this law may have as an element of an instrument to solve a fire on the one hand. We wanted this esteemed assembly to reconsider the way it wants to fall into some event here, into a social sphere, to finance some organisations, and to consider on the one hand the positive consequences on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the other hand the negative consequences for those organisations that are financed from the funds obtained from the sale of the tickets. Our view is that this is an extremely negative proportion. Otherwise, the Council of State does not oppose taxation of happiness or oppose taxation of happiness, as Mr Minister explained at our plenary session, but we do not think it is a matter of taxation of happiness, but it is a matter of taxing will to try to find happiness. It is simply that the law would be neutral to the organisers and neutral to the users of the funds if the taxation were carried out in such a way that the profits would be taxed or fortune taxed. Here we also tax those who do not receive happiness but simply want to buy it or just want to be involved in the pursuit of happiness. The law will have a much greater impact on funding organisations due to the crisis we are currently in. Each economist knows that a 10% increase in prices under such conditions is a very significant decrease in sales. This should also be seen in the light of Internet gambling providers, which are much cheaper and much higher. We believe that the law, as it is intended, will not have a positive effect, but the effects will be lasting, and it will be very difficult to replace the loss that disability, sports and humanitarian organisations will suffer as a result of this law. The Ministry of Finance has mistakenly argued that transport to operators of gambling is growing. This is due to the fact that only one time sequence was presented to you in 2012, when, due to extraordinary income, the week that had not been digested for so long had led to a dramatic increase in traffic. Transport, if you look at the longer time trend between 2004 and 2005 and 2013, is constantly rotating around 14 million. It was bigger only in 2008 and 2012, precisely because of the reason I mentioned. Otherwise, the relationship between gambling, lottery tickets and those made by electronic means is increasingly detrimental to sold happiness and increasingly beneficial to electronic games that are much more addictive than gambling. In addition, it is worth noting that it has been in the case of internet gambling providers that Slovenian providers have been losing their market share for a long time and that they are constantly losing their market share. A few years ago, at this meeting, I warned that the legislator should prevent a completely uncontrolled outflow of funds across the border to foreign providers, and at that time I was assured that this is what I was working on. But it hasn't happened yet. Nowadays, only 10% of online gambling is controlled by Slovenian providers. Everything else is in foreign hands. Dear Members and Members, once again, consider how many positive effects this law will have and how many negative effects this law will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, President of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 64th urgent session, on 18. Seven. 2013 addressed the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Luck Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its 16th session. Seven. The Committee was provided with the following material: the request of the Council of State of 17. Seven. 2013, Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 17. Seven. 2013 and the opinion of the Government of 18. Ten. 2013 Meetings of the Committee were attended by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Matey Vraničnik and representatives of FIHO. In its written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that, according to its competence, it does not define the substantive reasons put forward by the State Council in its request for re-decision. In the debate, a member of the coalition groups supported the law and considered the Government's arguments to be credible. It also pointed out that the implementation of the law and its implications for organisations financed from these activities should be monitored. In the debate, the representative of FIHO briefly reiterated his arguments against the adoption of the law. After discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, 11 for and 4 for: The Law on the Tax of Happiness is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance mag to explain the Government's opinion as the bill's proponent. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As stated at the time of the adoption of the law, the aim of the introduction of the Lucky Tax is primarily public finance. It is important, in view of the acute public financial situation, to verify the tax burden of individual activities in the decision-making process, in order to create a combination of measures to consolidate public finances and to intervene in a variety of measures both on the income and on the expenditure side of the budget. In this study, the areas of financial services and gambling have been exposed as activities where there is an opportunity for a more equitable distribution of the burden of consolidation. The Financial Services Tax Act was passed last year. This time, we are also applying last year’s forecast that special transport taxes will also burden the sale or purchase of lottery tickets. The aim of the law is that this activity also contributes to efforts to reduce the public financial deficit. The proposed law is directly without prejudice to the system of financing sports, disability and humanitarian organisations, as it is established by the Act on Gambling. It determines only the taxation of the purchase of tickets for participation in classical gambling. How this will affect the scope of the tax base for the calculation of the concession fee is impossible to accurately predict, since the organisers themselves will determine, in accordance with their business policy, how much of the tax burden they will pass on to the customer of the fortune and how much they do not. In assessing the financial implications, the applicant provided for a certain reduction in the payments due to the introduction of the new tax and the negative effects on certain other revenues and indirectly assessed the impact on all stakeholders in the system for the adaptation of classical gambling. In doing so, the applicant used the price elasticity data – minus 0.7 – provided by studies on comparable gambling. Gambling is considered to be a time of crisis when people do not stop playing, but they make even more massive decisions about them. There are no negligible data on the operation of operators and non-governmental concession recipients. In recent years, at least since 2010, there has been a trend in the increase in payments and a trend in the increase in concession fees received by the two Foundations for Sports and Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. In 2012, the total amount of concessions received for both organisations was over 32 million, in 2011 over 28 million, in 2010 about 27 million and in 2009 even more. With regard to the more favourable offer of classical gambling providers, including internet providers who will not be liable for a new lucky tax, we explain that the problem of illegal gambling operators cannot be the subject of this law and is being addressed at the level of system-wide gambling regulation in the context of amendments to the Gambling Act that is in preparation. The organisers without an appropriate concession in accordance with our legislation are not legal and try to limit and sanction them as much as possible. Over the last period, their control has been further enhanced. With regard to the proposed taxation of output activities, we explain that the output activity is already taxed with a gambling tax, where the tax base is different, as it represents the value of the payments received, reduced by the value of the profits paid, and therefore the expected effects would be lower at the time of a significant additional burden. It would also be a constitutionally controversial burden on the organizers of classical gambling by a higher tax on the income of legal persons, as proposed by the State Council. Also taxed are the profits from classical gambling at a uniform rate of 15% and the revenue from this tax belongs to the budgets of the municipality. Therefore, the additional burden on the winners of classical gambling, in our view, is not an appropriate alternative to the proposed law in view of the objectives that we are pursuing with it. We believe that achieving the consolidation of public finances is an important element in the resolution of the crisis, which has affected all activities, so we propose that the draft law be supported in re-voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia supported the introduction of the lucky tax and we have not changed our minds after considering the State Council's arguments against the introduction. It is true that it is a completely new tax, but this tax did not grow on the lawn of the finance minister or the government overnight. This is a text that has already been drafted in the previous government, and we think that there has been sufficient time to prepare the comments in detail. It is perfectly logical that no one wants new taxes, but we are at a time when some measures need to be introduced, which constitute an additional source of funding for the state budget. This is not the case, I stress, for the taxation of goods that would constitute an emergency survival. Absolutely not. If this were the case, we would not support it in our Group of Members. In particular, this tax represents the taxation of desire for happiness, the taxation of leisure activities, which by most accounts for smaller amounts, so that, as advocated by the state councilors, the introduction of this tax means such a fall in the purchase of happiness, constitutes a threat to the organisations involved, to such an extent that their operation and even their existence is questionable, it is by no means possible to believe. The share of the search for happiness is likely to decrease slightly, but it does not threaten to collapse, nor at all to disrupt the funding model of the disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. The reasons on which the decisions of the State Council are based, according to our assessment, are extremely flimsy and overblown, so we cannot support them in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and we will re-support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representative of the Council of State, distinguished secretary of state! In the State Council, a procrastination veto was passed on the Happiness Tax Act, so today we are re-declaring this law. In Novi Slovenija we have not supported this law so far and we will not support it today for the following reasons. The Luck Tax Act is a measure primarily aimed at raising public finances. It is clear from the Government's explanation that €7.3 million of additional budgetary revenue is expected in 2013 and €10.1 million in the following year. The subject of taxation is happiness from classic gambling. The tax base is the sales price of happiness, the tax rate is 10%. In Slovenia, only two companies have a concession to receive classical gambling, namely the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery. In addition, in New Slovenia we are exposing the problem of online gambling, which is increasingly widespread, but which is not covered by this law. Here we would like to highlight in particular foreign suppliers or providers of online gambling. It is true that the law was being prepared at the time of the previous coalition, but the New Slovenia Group increasingly distanced itself from it when we found that under the circumstances it was difficult to tax online gambling players as well. We also argue that in the event of today's re-confirmation of the Luck Tax Act, we will record the rise of a number of online gambling players, which, as already said, cannot be achieved by the present law. In the case of this law, it is a partial and, above all, an underthinking solution. The organisers of online gambling are still effectively avoiding control and also all forms of taxation. These types of gambling should be the first objective of taxation, as online gambling is much more than classical to create addiction, especially among young people. After discussions with recognized experts in the field of psychological counselling for children, minors and parents, we do not create illusions that the Law on Happiness Tax will reduce the number of gambling players. Maybe only within a very short period of time after the marriage. In the longer observed period, the law will have no effect on the reduction in the number of players and the proportion of online players will increase. Online gambling, as it is said, is not the subject of this tax law. Only further deepening the crisis can be attributed to increased interest in gambling, especially on the Internet. The deepening of the crisis can also be attributed to an increase in alcohol and other means of stunning, which is not the subject of today's debate. All of this can be good for charging the state budget, but devastating for society. In Novi Slovenije we are concerned about the expected inflow to humanitarian, disability and sports organisations. At the proposal of this law, Members received a warning from these organisations, foundations and societies, which are financed by concession fees from classical gambling. All these entities point to the possibility of a greater reduction in their funding. We agree with some of these organisations that it might be better to consider additional taxation of the final winners. In Nova Slovenija we are aware of the importance of the activities of humanitarian organisations, in particular the heavily divorced organisation Karitas, a humanitarian organisation that in times of economic crisis greatly helps to mitigate the consequences of social distress. Humanitarian organisations have played a role in this regard, we hope to say, a greater and more important role than state institutions. Their advantage is that the aid came quickly and in the way users needed it — in the form of food, school supplies, payment of bills, etc. The economic crisis has increased the share of socially disadvantaged people, and we do not support any reduction in funds for these purposes. Members of the New Slovenia Group welcome the decision of the State Council, so we will not support the Law on the Tax of Happiness today in re-decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! At the request of the Council of State, we will be re-declaring the Luck Tax Act here today. Members and Members of the Parliament of the Positive Slovenia Group have already supported this law. I will start again with the emphasis that the Luck Tax Act in the National Assembly was presented when the 2013 and 2014 budgets were planned and adopted. This tax was foreseen as a regular budget revenue at the time of adoption of the budget, and we also foreseen it in the stability programme, which, as you know, has been the subject of the recommendations of the European Union, and in the budget balance for this year, which we confirmed at the last 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Respectable, if I may say otherwise, this tax has been discussed since autumn 2012. The introduction of any tax is always a matter of controversy and debate. I have never heard of any tax being adopted by approval and universal acceptance. This is understandable, but it is also important to point out here that happiness tax is probably one of those that will have no impact on economic growth. Otherwise, the main objective of the tax is to provide a new source of funding for the state budget, but the introduction of this tax also has a positive indirect objective – to prevent addiction to gambling. Addiction, which is on the rise, is particularly worrying in the population among young people. We know that every addiction creates a social and, in particular, financial burden for every society. Everyone who's ever encountered this problem will know what I'm talking about right now, and I believe they'll back me up on this. In 2013, the law will result in net higher government budget revenues of €7.3 million and €10.1 million in 2014 – by the end of 2014, by €17.4 million. During the public hearing, many questions arose as to the negative consequences of the imposition of that tax. Strong concerns were expressed mainly by FIHO and the FSO, whose main source of funding comes from gambling. We have dealt with these concerns with with with all due care in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. If I quote my fellow Member: "Social dumping is not a trademark of Positive Slovenia." Disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations also belong here. During the public hearing, we ordered additional and in-depth studies on the impact of the tax on demand itself, which, in the wake of a significant change, resulted in lower revenues from both organisations, FIHO and the FSO. As we have already pointed out at the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, the assessments and arguments of the competent ministry have sufficiently convinced us that we have supported the Luck Tax Act. However, we agree and even support and call on the competent ministry to closely monitor the possible unexpected effects of the introduction of the tax from the enforcement of the law at least by the end of the year and propose amendments if necessary. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the Law on the Tax of Happiness. We will support it because we believe the assessments made by the competent ministry, the assessments based on real input data and not the assumptions what would have happened if it had been. However, we expect the Ministry to act immediately, as has already been said, with any unforeseen impact on the introduction of the Lucky Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Good day to you all! We will not support the proposal of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. This law taxes the happinesses that strike, as well as the happinesses that fail, which means that both happiness and happiness are taxed for those who buy happiness. This tax is typically fiscal. Otherwise, it can mean more revenue, but it has some shortcomings here, especially when the tax may reduce demand. It is expected that two key organisations, the Sports Lottery and the Lottery of Slovenia, will pass the entire tax on the consumer, on the player who buys happiness. Given that there is a much greater likelihood that the buyer of the fortune is not hit, the remainder of the money created in this way is financed by disability organisations and other humanitarian and sports organisations. In fact, there is also this danger of law that due to the introduction of this tax there will be less money for people with disabilities, less money for athletes and less money for other humanitarian organisations. If this is the case – experts in this area warn that this will certainly happen – then this money, which will be smaller, will have to be replaced from other sources – from the budget or from another tax. This would mean that we have achieved nothing with this tax on happiness. It will mean that humanitarian and disability organisations will be financed from elsewhere or will be reduced by financial resources, their finances will be reduced, and will therefore be in a worse social situation. This is negative, and we need to be very careful about that. It is also important to pay attention to competitiveness, since consumers will be better able to buy happiness in neighbouring countries or via the Internet as a result of this tax. It is known that for a long time there have been different solutions to how to control online gambling, but unfortunately to date we have not found appropriate solutions, which means that online gambling has a certain advantage, and given that they are organised internationally, this means a competitive advantage for them and at the same time means an outflow to other countries. Among other things, there are tax havens where gambling operators often have their own base or seat. All of this represents a great threat to this tax and will not achieve the desired objective, so we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u16	President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of State! In the proposal for the Luck Tax Act, the government pursued one objective – to achieve a contribution to the consolidation of public finances in a way that will burden both the organizer of classical gambling and the tax administration to the minimum. There is no doubt that the state budget needs new sources of funding. Clearly, no raise or new tax can be popular. However, we believe that the tax is linked to the purchase of happiness at a single tax rate of 10% of its value, something that we must accept at this time if we do not want to cut investment funds on the other hand, and the most important thing for us social democrats is for social transfers, public health and public education. The proposed law will thus increase the revenue of the state budget by about €7 million. Social Democrats we have heard comments from part of the profession, as well as from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, the Foundation for Sport, as well as warnings from the organisers of gambling. As we have already pointed out, we will closely monitor the developments caused by the introduction of the tax, especially in the light of the fact that the sale of happiness for gambling is a fundamental source of funding for two important foundations with general social objectives in our country. If it turns out that the imposition of this tax in order to reduce the revenues of these foundations in fiscal terms will cause more damage than benefits, we commit ourselves to react and act accordingly. That criticism and fear of how this tax will lead to a decline in the search for happiness is too great, there is also a government analysis that says that in times of crisis people do not stop playing, but they decide even more. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will once again support the Law on the Tax of Happiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, the President of the National Assembly, representatives of the government! Last week, the National Assembly voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, as well as clearly expressed opposition from one of the coalition parties with a modest 41 votes. Yesterday, the Council of State, I stress, voted unanimously in favour of this law. Today, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly are once again deciding on the introduction of this law, so allow me to remind you again of some highly justified reasons why the Law on Happiness Tax today in the National Assembly does not receive or refuse support. As the findings of the Council of State have been correctly summarised, this tax is one and the only thing — the charging of the State budget, the charging of the State Malha and nothing else. In the Slovenian People's Party last year, we also warned our then government as coalition partners, which was preparing a similar law, that additional taxation of the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery makes no sense, thus reducing financial resources for disabled organisations, sports organisations and humanitarian organisations. We are giving this warning to you today to the same extent or even greater, respected coalition partners and the Government. In addition, the Government of the preparation of this Luck Act has apparently gone very domestically and has not taken into account the consequences of this new law or the consequences of the calculations made by others. Unfortunately, this was not taken into account in both VAT and other cases such as court fees, etc. Apparently, new taxes are being prepared, new vineyards, then real estate, a crisis tax, and I don't know what else. That doesn't go forward. The fact is that a new tax on gambling players would definitely redirect to foreign online providers, thus reducing the income of our non-profit organisations, which everyone is alerting to. In other words, the respected Government, the money to pay for the fortunes in Slovenia will not be any more with the new tax, much less. Taking into account that, in addition to the costs of companies, the remaining money from the payment is divided into gains, taxes, financing of disability, humanitarian and sports organisations that have to live on from something, the new tax will make it necessary to provide funding for these organisations from other budgetary sources. Slowly you, a respected government, will have to step up taxes one by one with such ease, you will really have to, I stress once again, learn that you cannot have what we once said to farmers: "Grünta and another 500 from Grunt." Either a grünt or a 500 – you can't do both. Where you take it, there's a hole, and this hole needs to be filled again, but the problem is that the hole is even bigger than what you took out. If you want to change something, the financial situation in this country will have to stop thinking about what else people would take away, and reduce the consumption of the country, not at the expense of investments, but at the expense of running costs. I believe that we will turn our backs on the marriage of all those who spoke of it, foretell it, and do it in the last week. Then the matter will be in harmony with the spirit of our blessed Anton Martin Slomšk, who said, "In the word of truth, in the act of justice." We will not support him in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a re-decision on the Luck Tax Act. I ask you to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus while at the same time reminding you that the majority of members of the assembly — 46 or more — must vote in accordance with Article 91(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia for the adoption of that law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 19. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxis. At its 2nd extraordinary meeting on 17 July 2013, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, prior to its announcement, decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Branko Šumenjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! On behalf of the Council of State, I would like to present at the earliest possible time the reasons why, at yesterday's meeting, we requested a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees. This led primarily to the following. From the adopted Law on Judicial Fees, we have seen in particular what has motivated us most to make this decision — limiting judicial protection as human and constitutional rights. In these difficult and critical situations, which increasingly strain people's belt, we are also encouraged by the objective and, above all, the basic purpose of this law is to fill the state budget. It's so-called, you could say, low-taxation. The next thing that is not evident from the law is the disproportionateity between fees and service. There should be some proportionality between the service and the fees. The ratio is already broken when the law provides that, in view of the amount of the dispute, when deciding on the amount of the assets in the dispute, the court fee is different, whether in this case or in this case, it has been decided in a short or longer time, whether the service was more expensive or cheaper. Then there is the disproportionateity between the judicial fees themselves, between the individual judicial fees we have detected. Therefore, the Council of State notes that this law is not intended in any way for what it should be, so that people who are forced to justify themselves can be justified, but because they will not be able to pay such high fees, they will be limited. In this respect, it has been pointed out that this law provides for exemptions. True, exemptions are provided for those receiving social assistance and only partially. No exemption is foreseen in 100 %, as is the case in the current regulation. The applicant says that in no way will the right to judicial protection be jeopardised, which is not true, because the legal tariffs themselves, which have been raised and amended, resulted in a lower caseload in court. As it has been pointed out that the Court has proposed a 50% increase in fees, but is now on average only 10, it is our view that the services in the judiciary are poor, as you discussed recently in this High Council and unanimously concluded that something needs to be regulated in this area. It is not logical and it is not reasonable that bad services are paid more than they have been paid so far. We also believe that the Council of State takes into account the opinion of the Council of State, which was almost unanimous. There was only one vote against yesterday's decision. In the opinion of the Council of State, you will be the ones who will vote in favour of this law again today, against judicial protection, in order to limit the right to judicial protection, you will be in favour of the budget being filled with those pockets that are already so empty. With this you will also contribute to making our Slovenian population even more poor than it has been before and that we will not be able to achieve the right that we should go to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Justice as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Your Honor! It is also a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Justice Committee, which, at its 28th urgent meeting today, relied first on the opinion of the Council of State, presented by Councillor Branko Šumenjak, that the amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees were unjustified, disproportionate and without the criteria for raising judicial fees and that they constituted an infringement of the constitutional right to judicial protection and that they therefore need to be reconsidered after their assessment. He took note of the position of the Government presented by the Minister of Justice, Dr. Pličanič, who rejected the concerns and proposed, on behalf of the Government, to the National Assembly that the law should be adopted in the event of a re-decision. With regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative noted that most of the arguments of a legal nature in the veto were such that they were based initially on an opinion drawn up by the Legislative and Legal Service and that these comments were mostly taken into account in the amendments adopted during the adoption of the law in the procedure already at the meeting of the Committee. In the debate, the coalition MPs supported the law and the opposition strongly opposed it. Finally, with a majority of the votes of all members – 8 for and 4 for the 15th Committee – the Committee adopted an opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Minister Senk Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to place on my soul what I have done several times, on the committee for the first time and again today, and on the Council of State I have said the same thing. It is that raising court fees is something that is part of the current budget for this year, something that you adopted in this House, something that was adopted a few months ago. The increase in court fees, once again, is part of the current budget. The current budget is based on the assumption that court fees will increase. The novelty of this law, which provides the basis for raising judicial fees, is only the implementation of the already adopted budget. At the time when the budget was adopted, it was time to oppose this solution – to raise court fees. Now it is only about realizing what has already been adopted. This does not mean that, as the minister responsible for justice, I look forward to raising court fees and that I think that this is something we urgently need in general. I do not mean that, but we urgently need this in view of the public financial situation in which Slovenia is. As you know, this is critical, and additional budgetary revenue has to be sought in various areas, including on what I am covering. One of these is court fees. That's actually the main reason for this promotion. Once again, what I have just said is that the budget in force is based on this, and it is simply a matter of implementing what is already in the budget. However, since we are aware at the Ministry that raising judicial fees could have an important impact on the right to judicial protection, which is one of the constitutionally guaranteed human rights in Slovenia, we have been very careful and aware of what I have just said, we have embarked on the preparations for this change. By the way, this one was prepared at the end of last year, even in the previous government. So I am sure that the amendment to the law that provides the basis for the increase in the fees of the courts, due to the care with which we have taken the preparations – due diligence was precisely to ensure that the right to judicial protection is not threatened in any way. Because we have both taken into account, the need for additional budgetary revenue on the one hand and on the other hand to safeguard the right to judicial protection, which is one of human rights – we have both properly balanced, on the one hand, we have received a basis for raising judicial fees, on the other hand, and on the other hand, we have done everything, and I think that we have succeeded in ensuring that the right to judicial protection is not in any way compromised. Therefore, I think that the arguments that were the reason for the State Council's adoption of the veto are unfounded, and I call on Members and Members to re- back up this law when they re-vote the amendment of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that Members of the New Slovenia Group have not supported the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees in the proceedings so far and we will not support them even in today's re-voting. Although the amendments have slightly softened the original government proposal of this law, which has raised certain court fees even by 60% in the most frequent cases before the court, with a view to increasing public financial revenues. Despite the amendments adopted, the intervention in judicial fees, as adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees, is unacceptable. Court fees are intended to cover the work, I repeat, covering part of the costs for the work of the courts. The provision of funds for the functioning of the courts is an obligation of the State budget. In any event, the amount of the fees shall not jeopardise the right of the parties to judicial proceedings. This right is constitutionally guaranteed to everyone and everyone under the same conditions. The inability to pay a court fee must in no case be an obstacle to anyone not being able to claim the protection of their rights before a court. The current system of judicial fees often prevents customers from seeking their right in the courts. We are not only warned by voters, but also by lawyers. The payment of a court fee is in most cases a procedural assumption. This means that the court does not accept the application or initiate proceedings if the fee is not paid. In times of economic crisis, high unemployment rates and lowering real and often nominal revenues, the payment of court fees is increasingly not only for unemployed and pensioners but also for regular income workers. The fees in many civil disputes are a multiple of the salaries paid by the employees, and in no case are the parties able to settle them even in instalments. The increase in court fees at this time is an inappropriate measure to increase public financial revenues. In New Slovenia, we are particularly critical of legal changes regarding the possibility of customers to exempt payment of court fees. The current regulation of this area is relatively well regulated. For the purpose of exempting the payment of judicial fees to date, anyone who would have been reduced by payment of a judicial fee for their own survival or for the survival of family members could have applied. In this way, judicial protection was also provided to the weaker parties. This law provides only for recipients of financial social assistance to be exempt from the legal tax. Although the possibility of partial exemption of court fees is being introduced, in Novi Slovenija we are very reserved until this solution. Such an option, without specific legal criteria for partial exemption, did not guarantee that the courts would actually implement this option in specific cases and in particular to what extent. If the prescribed amount of the legal fee for a particular dispute is, for example, a thousand 800 euros, including a half exemption from a court fee for someone who receives EUR 400 of pension, it means that he will not be able to pay a judicial fee. He won't be able to take advantage of his right to justice. We are also opposed to the introduction of such an obligation for labour disputes of a property nature. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the State should, with its supervisory mechanisms, in particular inspection services, ensure that employers fulfil their obligations to workers. However, as these controls do not work, payment workers must increasingly require in court proceedings. The introduction of such an obligation for these types of disputes merely means limiting this last option that workers have at their disposal to gain their right. As we said in the introduction, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia on the re-decision on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Fees. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees, which we will be re-declaring today because of the veto of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, did not arise a week ago and recklessly, quickly as it had been heard several times in previous discussions. Let me remind you that on 6 December 2012, the 2013 budget of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted. Looking at page 14, the explanation of the general part of this budget is clearly stated there, and I quote: "We appreciate that in 2013, total €94 million will be paid from fees and fees, which is 13.2 million euros, or 16.4% more than in the 2012 budget rebalancing, and this is due to the projected increase in court fees in 2013 of €16 million." At the time, however, such a record was not problematic for comments on the imposition of judicial fees and was not submitted by the State Council at the time. In its request for re-decision, the State Council first recalls that the draft law does not show any information on judicial fees in other countries, although the proposal contains a comparative proposal and a view of the arrangements with Germany, Austria, Poland and the Czech Republic, and further explanations were given by the Minister at the meeting of the Committee. They further point out that the explanation of the proposal shows that the proposal is only aimed at providing inflows to the state budget. It should be pointed out that the proposal makes it clear that it is one of the measures to increase public financial revenues, but it is also clearly stated that the primary objective of the proposal is to achieve a better balance between the complexity and the extent of the work needed to conduct individual proceedings and the level of the fees involved. The fact is that a court fee is a payment for the provision of services, and such a position is also taken by the Constitutional Court. If the judicial fees do not cover the costs of the functioning of the judicial system, funds from the budget must be used, but the budget is empty. It is with an empty budget that a constitutionally protected right to judicial protection can begin to move away from us. The National Council also points out the concerns that there is an increasing number of indemnity, labour-related disputes, traffic and others in which participants do not have the means to pay additional charges. In doing so, they fear that the right to judicial protection will be violated by citizens because of the inability to pay judicial fees, which would constitute a significant shift from the principle of legal certainty. We cannot agree with such a claim, as the tangiblely weaker parties receiving social assistance are exempt from payment of the court fee. However, those parties who do not receive social assistance, taking into account all the circumstances, in particular the property situation of the party and the property status of its family members, will be entitled to partial exemption from payment, the value of the subject matter and the number of persons who are being held by the customer. Partial exemptions may also amount to up to 99% where this is justified. The right to partial exemption shall be exercised by both natural and legal persons. In addition, the parties may also impose a deferral of payment or a round payment of judicial fees. The provision of the constitutional right to judicial protection in relation to the constitutional principle of social justice in this case is in no way jeopardised. The Council of State also points out, inter alia, that there must be a direct link and a reasonable proportion between the level of the fee and the service. This was also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. It is precisely because of this concern that an amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Justice, which completely removes this issue. Other concerns have also been addressed by the amendment adopted, which is also reflected in the opinion submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service at the request for re-decision. We have already said almost everything about the amendment and updating of the Law on Judicial Fees in Positive Slovenia, but we do not agree and do not understand all the arguments cited by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, so today we will reconfirm the amendment of the Law on Judicial Fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Thank you, President. Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues! The position of the SDS party has not changed. We're not going to support the Law on Court Fees this time either. The SDS party advocates raising taxes, levies, fines, penalties and in this case a tax, judicial fees, only as an extreme example of the operation of the policy. During the months of operation of this government, we are witnessing only a variety of lifting of the burdens of citizens in all areas. Raising the burdens of citizens is the government's leading policy. There have also been some good measures, which are only a result of the copying of the trap or the continuation of the measures under the mandate of the previous Janša government. A rise in court fees is not an example of the seizure of good measures by the previous government. The law is incomplete, without proper analysis, both international and financial. Not even an analysis of how this law will affect economic operators was prepared is just another shot by this government into the Slovenian economy. It is a marriage where the government and its coalition make it clear that it is mainly two matters. First, the court's heard wishes for higher contributions to their operation or non-action. No more resources will result in a millimeter of more efficient court action, and on the other hand this will mean a reduction in people's access to justice. Secondly, it is a matter of filling every day of the state's more empty budget and, as a result, emptying the budgets of citizens who do not just complain, but want to seek their right in court or regulate the injustice that has occurred to them. The judiciary hopes that the taxpayers will receive more than €8 million. The judiciary, which has the most judges per capita in Europe and is the least effective, wants a reward for its slow work. We say no, thank you. The amount will be lower, as the other painful measures of this government will mean that people, whether natural or legal, will not have enough money to seek their right in the courts, whether it is labour-social disputes, economic disputes due to enforcement or any other dispute. On the one hand, wages are reduced, pensions are reduced, and on the other hand taxes, duties, penalties and, in this case, the economic logic of this government, which is, in particular, life practice, is not tolerated. In the SDS, through amendments in the legislative process, we wanted to reduce the level of payment of court fees, make them real and moderate. But the coalition, which pursues only the objective of filling the budget, has its own account, supported only by ministers, a good half of its members and a very small part of its citizens. In the SDS, we believe that a different policy is available instead of a headless celebration of citizens' wallets. The fact that the government has not yet adopted the Government's regulatory work programme for the current year 2013 is already clear enough that the policy of this government is headless. Therefore, we can ask ourselves which tax, levy, penalty and fine will be set for the autumn. Citizens, hold on to your wallets because you never know where and how you will be affected by this government's policy, even if the measures are disproportionate as they are now, in the re-admission of this law. The objectives of this government are obviously to devote all the resources. We are opposed to this in the SDS, so this time we will not support the law. Maybe for closure. The Minister would like to point out several times that the proposal for a law is the result of the funds already envisaged in the state budget. Does this mean that the minister has taken his way or the other way around? For the law is usually adopted first, and then all this is provided in the budget. Perhaps, however, the Minister has already hoped for the early support of Members for his work. Our support, he didn't have SDS support and he won't have it. To conclude: the comparison of the activities in 2008 and 2013, which is intended to justify the rise of court fees, is, in our opinion, little distasteful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u32	Your Honor! Members and Members of the Social Democrats have already been reminded of some of the dilemmas brought by the amendment of the law in the previous examinations of this law. Let's just say that raising the price of court fees will not contribute to economic growth. The principle of proportionality has not been consistently followed in determining higher and new fees. I am referring to the appropriate proportionality between the court fee and the service performed and also to the relationship between the individual fees. Furthermore, we need to protect and upgrade the right to judicial protection even more intensively during the economic crisis. At the same time, in the Social Democrats, we would like to believe that the charges raised will encourage parties to enter into judicial proceedings or other forms of early conclusion of the proceedings. Perhaps there will be only a few less lawsuits due to banal disputes and thus less burden on the courts. We also hope that there will be no further complications due to applications for exemption, suspension or periodic payment of fees in the courts. There's still a lot of work to be done before the Justice Department. The Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The Civil Gazette announces its renewed support for the Law on Judicial Fees or Novels. 185 million euros is foreseen in this year's budget for the cost of justice, of which 135 million is for the functioning of the courts. Court fees are one of the revenues from which the judicial authorities, which constitute the basis, guarantee and essence of the rule of law, are financed. If there is insufficient collection of court fees, the difference between justice is financed directly from the budget, from the resources of all taxpayers. By their very nature, judicial fees are fairly fair. They are paid exclusively by those who need and benefit from judicial services. Whoever does not need court services and does not cause proceedings, he does not have any problems with court fees. In addition, court fees are intended to assess each party’s financial risk prior to the conduct of proceedings and to force them to assess their potential for success and to deter them from making clearly unfounded proposals, complaints, complaints. The fact is that the current situation in the higher courts in Slovenia shows that 90% of the complaints are unfounded and 97% of all the exceptional remedies that we have brought to the Supreme Court. However, there must be a direct link and a reasonable proportion between the level of the fee and the service. It cannot and must not happen that the amount of the judicial fee discourages individuals with average income not entitled to tax exemptions from the exercise of judicial rights. The National Assembly finally raised its fees five years ago. There is a meaningful comparison here with administrative fees. From 2008 alone, the administrative fee increased by 27.29%. Let us ask ourselves, How many times have road taxes been raised in five years and all the other taxes that are not legally binding? Moreover, it is clear that inflation has been 22% in recent years. All of this is due to the fact that it is the right time for these court fees to rise by 10% on average. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that the veto of the State Council is on the amendment of the Law on Judicial Fees without any real arguments. It is interesting, however, that a good part of the argument is literally copied from the explanation of the SDS amendment to Article 13 of the novel and the rest from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to the initial proposal of the Act of 3. Seven. 2013 which, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, has also been amended appropriately on the Committee, so that the State Council’s argument to oppose this law no longer exists. As has been said several times before, the rise in court fees is calculated and foreseen already in the 2013 budget in force. Who has adopted the 2013 budget in force? All of us here, with the exception of the Members of Positive Slovenia. It is incomprehensible to object to the fact that the legal fees of the original EUR 30 million are only lower in the amount of EUR 8 million in revenue to the budget, and this is a substantially lower increase. I believe that this measure, despite the fact that it is generally not popular, is necessary, but follows the public financial revenues, the balance of the budget. I think it is right that, despite the fact that this is an unpopular measure, we should reconfirm this increase and adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Last week, the National Assembly, with 46 votes in favour and opposition to our parliamentary group, adopted the amendment to the Law on Court Fees. Yesterday the State Council also did so, following numerous warnings and virtually unanimously, with only one vote against, adopted a procedural veto on this law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore reiterate today that, in the face of all the known problems that we have in the area of justice and the state budget, the Government would be expected to bring to the National Assembly, as a matter of priority, those legislative proposals that will increase the effectiveness of justice and thus try to restore citizens and citizens to the sense that they live in the rule of law, but not to give priority to charging the budget. It is justified for people to feel that we live in two legal countries in Slovenia. One will be for those who have money and who will be able to come out of justice with it and the other for those who do not have it and will not be able to pay for it. We also allow the possibility that this will reduce the number of trials and thus the judicial backlog. This law, which has an impact on the constitutionally guaranteed protection of human beings, will not be supported again in the Slovenian People's Party's Group today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, the honourable ones are present! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia did not change its opinion until the amendment of the Law on Judicial Fees. Even after examining the reasons why the State Council opposes the law, in the DeSUS Group we believe that the law is appropriate. Court fees are intended to cover the costs of judicial proceedings, and the fact is that in the Republic of Slovenia we only partially cover the costs of judicial proceedings and that for many years court fees have not changed or coordinated, although inflation was around 22% at that time. The essence of the new Law on Court Fees is that some court fees are being increased and some are being introduced. In view of the state budget situation, additional funding for the courts should be provided. This is undeniably found today in this hall. In the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe it is right that the parties involved in individual judicial proceedings also contribute to covering the costs of judicial proceedings. Although this has already been said, I reiterate that it is important for the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners that the judicial protection provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is guaranteed to all citizens and citizens of our country that judicial protection is also provided to citizens and citizens who are socially weak in the way that all those who, on the basis of a decision of the competent authority, receive financial social assistance under the provisions of the law governing social security benefits and the law governing the exercise of rights from public funds are fully exempt from the payment of taxes. I repeat, he is fully exempt from payment of taxes. A party other than the recipient of a financial social assistance shall in part exempt the payment of taxes, in the event that the payment in full would jeopardise the maintenance of that party and its family members. Customers who are not recipients of financial social assistance may postpone payment of fees or allow payment of interest if, through an immediate payment, the full amount of the funds by which that party or its family members survive is significantly reduced. The current budgetary resources are obviously not sufficient to cover the costs of judicial proceedings. The fact is that the charges have not been raised in the last five years. Even in 2010 there was a certain decrease. Meanwhile, all the cost of living and many taxes were substantially increased. Inflation was around 22% at the time. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, at the time of the previous consideration of the novel in the National Assembly, far from wanting any increase, we felt that there was a need for a certain price consolidation in this area. We still believe that judicial protection, irrespective of the rise in prices, which, once again, is more reasonable and proportionate, as the Legislative and Legal Service also says, is still sufficiently guaranteed to all citizens. In the DeSUS Group, we will re-assign our votes for the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-18-SDZ6-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees. I ask you to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus while reminding you that a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in accordance with Article 91(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia for the adoption of that law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 14. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I want you to gather new strengths by our next meeting. Goodbye.
