ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning! I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Majda Potata by 15:00, Alenka Bikar, Mitja Meršol, Jožef Kavticnik, Sam Bevk by 15:00, Borut Ambrožič, Peter Wilfan and Matvež Frangež. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Referendum and Human Initiatives. The draft law was tabled by a group of 47 Members and Members, with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Group of 17 Members and Members, with first signed by Janije Möderndorfer, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, I wish you a nice and good morning! When we talk about amendments to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, we are talking about the Institute of Referendum. I am aware that all Members, both those in the coalition and those in the opposition these days, receive a variety of messages, e-mails, classical mail, where people are calling you to this or that. Some call on you not to support these changes absolutely; others are inclined to do so. If you look at the public opinion survey, you will find that more than two thirds of the electoral beneficiaries are in some way supporting changes in the organisation of the referendum institute. We also receive e-mails that tell us that by means of this law we will end the inalienable constitutional rights, that our law is antihuman, anti-State, non-democratic, and anything else that can be found. Let me make it very clear that this law does not abolish the Institute of Referendum; we do not take anything from the people or lower democratic standards. The Institute of the Referendum just wants to improve. Perhaps some democracies imagine that a minority can always block the majority. I don't think that's the real democracy. And what does this law of ours actually suggest? It proposes and speaks of this because we hope that this will also be followed by an amendment to article 90, which we will consider tomorrow to give the referendum exclusively to the people. This law, which is before you today, speaks of how many electoral beneficiaries or how many people may request a referendum. We propose that the referendum may require 5,000 electoral beneficiaries. Some people think it's a big number. For a slightly better performance, I made this graph to see what a small dot represents the 5,000 electoral beneficiaries who may require a referendum. This large round is represented by all the electoral beneficiaries, and this small dot is represented by those who may request a referendum. I think this graph tells us all about how to be undemocratic, unconstitutional and more. If this little dot can call for a referendum, then I think all democratic standards are met. The number so far is 2,000 500. We're proposing an increase of 5,000. What does that technically mean? In Slovenia we have 58 administrative units and if you distribute 5,000 signatures among these administrative units, you will find that those requiring a referendum should collect 86 signatures in one week on one administration unit. At least this number doesn't look too big to us. And if it's a relevant social problem, then 86 signatures in one week shouldn't be a problem. What does our proposal solve? In addition to increasing it from 2 000 500 to 5 000 and demanding that these signatures be certified, not collected on the street, but certified on the administrative unit and that they be included in the final quota of 40,000 signatures. If you look at the history of the referendums and the referendum initiatives that have been tabled so far, you will find that there are now 19 referendums in Slovenia. However, there are 81 initiatives that have been put forward. This number tells you that about a quarter of these initiatives are real and there is a referendum and everything else is being used for tactical political blockades. Let me finish. Our proposal solves and eliminates the political blockades and nuisances that have taken place in the last loss of signatures. Since this is a first reading, I ask you to give this subject and this subject an opportunity, even if you do not agree with all the content that this subject and the debate continues in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. For an introductory explanation, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you are, Mr Helmut Hartman, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good morning on my side, too! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members and Members, with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin proposes instead of the current 2 000 500 signatures to submit an initiative to call for a subsequent legislative referendum to raise the threshold of signatures to 5,000. Their signatures should of course be certified, but of course the certified signatures of the initiators would be included in the required quota of the signatures collected, that is to say 40,000 voters to apply for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum. The current regulation makes it difficult to adopt laws and even after unnecessary complications of the entire legislative procedure, and the Government therefore supports efforts to tighten the conditions for access to the referendum. Of course, this must be done in such a way as not to impede the constitutional right to a referendum on the other hand, so I believe that the debate will be opened at this point in the National Assembly. We also agree with the proposal to amend the second paragraph of Article 16 of the Law, which provides that the signature of the electorate must be made on a document setting out the content of the requirement with the personal data of the signatory. This is the case with the name, surname, date of birth, address of the municipality, permanent residence, signature on its own, and the date on which the initiative was signed. However, there is still room for improvement in this part, especially in the nomotechnological part, that certain terminology issues need to be simplified. It is understandable, however, that the amendments envisaged should not apply to the procedures already in place for collecting signatures. In addition, we propose to set a slightly longer period for adjusting the functioning of the public administration authorities, as the 15-day period for the entry into force of the law in this case is somewhat too short. Notwithstanding the above, I should say that we are essentially in favour of the proposal put forward by the proposers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This amendment of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative is dealt with in parallel with the constitutional amendments announced, while we are touching on some of the technical things that have in practice proved inappropriate and are often subject to political tactics and even abuse. In the Slovenian People's Party, we see the referendum as the highest institution of democratic decision-making and as the highest form of direct democracy that guarantees the opportunity and right of citizens to define a particular issue or law themselves. However, referendum decision-making is also a very serious matter and it is certainly not appropriate for this institution to be used or abused to exercise some very narrow interests. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not favour any restriction on the democratic definition of organised individuals, but it is essential that we also regulate the initial formalities in the referendum decision-making process and make everything more transparent than it is now. Given that the signatures on the basis of which the referendum is to be signed, certified on administrative units, we do not see any reason why those signatures necessary for the initiation of the procedure should not be in line with that criterion. How inappropriate today’s arrangements have been, we have seen in practice recently. The signatures are collected quickly, but most of the time for individual signatures is a readability problem, and there is no evidence that the signatories are aware of what they sign, nor is the time of their signature consistent with the referendum initiative. The door to the abuse of the so-called pre-referendum procedure is thus wide open. One of the main findings is that this law would further burden some state authorities, particularly those employed in administrative units. But even now, the process of collecting signatures on administrative units is leaking, and then signatures are not collected in a sufficiently high number. From a technical point of view in the Slovenian People's Party for the implementation of this law, we do not see any problems. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the need to make it publicly known from each signature who has contributed it, when it has contributed it, and that it is clearly aware of the purpose for which it has contributed it, which requires an appropriate period of time for the collection of these signatures, and these signatures must also be included in the quota of the required signatures for the referendum invitation to tender. And now around the proposed number of signatures collected. It's true, 5,000 signatures aren't a small number. However, if the deadline for collecting 40,000 signatures for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum is 35 days, we are convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that if it is a serious initiative that solves a broader social problem and not only a narrow political or other interest, it is certainly possible to obtain 5,000 signatures in 8 days. While the Government has rightly pointed out some technical shortcomings in the law, in particular with regard to the unification of terminology and the necessary longer period for the enforcement of the law, I believe that this problem could be easily resolved in further proceedings. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that in order to start the process of collecting signatures, the submitted signatures should also be certified. And this, in our view, is also the essence of this law, because it is only in this way that the will of an individual citizen is very clear and undoubtedly expressed. It is still possible to discuss what the relevant number is and how long it should be available to collect these signatures, and there are still certain derogations from the current proposal. However, in the Slovenian People's Party, we would sincerely like to see this area, with which we have so far had little experience, fully regulated. As I mentioned earlier, the referendum is all too serious for a developed democratic society to be evaluated by irregular procedures or conditions under its invitation to tender. We therefore agree in the Slovenian People's Party that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will also vote in favour of the continuation of this legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. The Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Secretary of State! I will present the opinion of the DeSUS Group, which is next. With the amendment of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, we do not abolish the Institute of Referendum, but we are modifying it, as has already been said today. We therefore amend the second paragraph of Article 16 of this Act, which sets out the number of voters who can give the initiative to call for a subsequent legislative referendum. The referendum should be treated in a comprehensive manner, both from the point of view of the Constitution and from the point of view of the law in question. The Law of the Institute of Referendum regulates in more detail, and the law now in force provides that 2 thousand 500 signatures are to be collected for the referendum. The proposer of amendments to the law proposes 5,000 signatures and adds a stricter condition for signatures, namely that these signatures must be certified. However, these signatures are included in the total quota of 40 thousand signatures required to submit a request for a referendum. Members of the DeSUS Group and Members of the DeSUS Group join in the view that there are proposals for the implementation of the subsequent legislative referendum on the abuse of this institution and in principle we agree with the higher number of signatures required, but we express our concerns about whether the proposed number is appropriate, especially because 5,000 certified signatures are required. Mr Tonin vividly said what that meant for 86 signatures within one week on one administrative unit. If we simplify the matter this way, one might believe it, but I still think that it is necessary to think carefully about it. This required number of certified signatures, according to our assessment, is too limited to the constitutional right of citizens and citizens to speak directly at the referendum about a law which interferes with their rights. Therefore, the Institute of Referendum should be taken as an important institution and complement as part of the direct exercise of human authority. It also points to the mistaken view that it is a follow-up legislative referendum to postpone the duties and responsibilities of Members in the adoption of laws on citizens. The truth is somewhere else. Members have done their work in such a case, and in this case, the legislative referendum does not mean transferring this responsibility to citizens, but rather means the possibility and right of citizens and citizens to speak of each law on their own. The general basis for all initiatives to amend the referendum law is, in our view, that the proposed amendments seek to achieve an even greater role for this institution in our constitution and legislation and to remedy the identified shortcomings. This has been said quite a bit today, and I wouldn't have said that because I have little time at my disposal. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a new Law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is, in principle, appropriate and a few more efforts will have to be made to find a suitable number of signatures. As I have already said, they are certified signatures and, in my opinion, they are difficult to collect in such a short time and in the opinion of our Group of Members. In principle, we will support the proposed law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Secretary of State! In Slovenia, the power of the people as a democratic state belongs to the people. This is a sanctuary that we must keep in mind and always have before our eyes when we are thinking and perhaps redesigning our social policy. The authority therefore belongs to citizens and citizens who exercise it directly and through elections. This is provided for in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia, as in most democratic countries, the people exercise their sovereignty, as a rule, through their representatives elected in the elections. It's so-called indirect democracy. Direct exercise of power or direct democracy is a rare but also an extremely important form of democratic decision-making. As with the elections, voting in the referendum for the exercise of the constitutional right to direct decision, as referred to in Article 44 concerning the third paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution, shall also take place. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative sets out in more detail the procedure for the subsequent legislative referendum. This law provides, of course, that the initiative for the submission of the subsequent legislative referendum shall be tabled with a list of 2 000 500 unreliable electoral signatures. Such legislation has given voters a wide range of opportunities to exercise the constitutional right to direct decision-making. Regrettably, however, these legal options have been used more frequently than for the purpose for which they have been designated or used or, rather, abused for political blockades. Providing support for the request for a referendum is often only an expression of political, ideological or interest to a political party or organisation which is an incentive for the call for an ex-legislative referendum of its own interests. Under such legislation, there is not only a theoretical but often a practical possibility for every law to introduce an initiative for an ex-legislative referendum by some narrow political or interest groups and the work of the National Assembly as a legislator is least difficult, if not impossible. In Novi Slovenije we have defined our referendum in our electoral programme, where we have written down, quote: "The referendum is an important correction in the system of decision-making of representative democracy, but the current referendum regime has the potential for conflict in the political system, as the referendum can change decisions of the National Assembly, which have been adopted by most democratically elected Members, even with extremely low participation." End of quote. In Novi Slovenije, we are also committed to tightening the entry threshold for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum in order to prevent further abuses of this institution, in a way that will still allow voters to exercise their constitutional right to direct decision-making. The way to achieve this is to increase the number of signatures needed to submit the initiative from the current 2 000 500 to the 5,000 signatures, which must be certified. Only in this way will it be possible to verify whether support for the initiative to apply for a referendum has actually given the required number of voters, that is, 5,000 voters. With the increase in the required number of voters' signatures, the aim is to limit the referendum initiatives to really important social issues to which the general public will be identified. In such cases, it will also not be difficult for the initiators to collect the required 5,000 certified signatures, as appropriate public awareness will take place at the time of the adoption of the law. Let me add, proposal 5,000 is, of course, a proposal and it is a matter of democratic debate in the National Assembly. New Slovenia, of course, does not set the deadline, we are ready to talk about this number. Let me remind you again, we have 58 administrative units in Slovenia, we have 170 local offices, which means that there are about 22 signatures to be collected on average at these 228 locations. This is, of course, arithmetic, sort of a theory. I would also like to remind here and express the desire that it is high time for the country to also start promoting e-democracy, which means that someday in the near future we will be able to broadcast these signatures from home. I would like the state to distribute the certificates to citizens for free. Members of the New Slovenia Group announce support for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall have the floor of Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the amendment of the referendum regime, in particular at the level of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, takes place not only from the beginning of this mandate, but several mandates. For the profession is harmonised and also the majority of the general public that the current regime is too misplaced, too open and allows for many abuses. For this reason, politics, professions and the public have been working for some time to find good, quality solutions that would give rise to this constitutional right and make it even better. This change of constitution will be the subject of a speech at tomorrow's meeting and we believe that work in the Constitutional Commission is going well and that experts in particular have made some very good proposals. Today, we are talking about the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative, which complements constitutional regulation at the legal level. And what seems controversial to us in the first phase is that the New Slovenia Group has decided to make this legal change at an already sensitive social moment of changing the Constitution in this area. This is particularly disturbing because the New Slovenia Group has conditioned support for constitutional changes by tightening the condition contained in the law, namely the condition of the necessary signatures to begin collecting signatures in accordance with the constitutional provision. In Positive Slovenia, we do not oppose the verification of constitutional arrangements, referendum arrangements and possible improvements in terms of what I said earlier. However, we oppose any restriction of this right, particularly in the so-called entry point. Our basic domain or our basic thesis is that the entry point, the right possibility of proposing a referendum, must be allowed to propose a relatively small number of people, including a minority, if we say so. However, it is important to change the so-called exit point, where a legitimate, appropriate majority must confirm this amendment or find that it agrees with the amendment or the law as proposed by the legislator. Here is also the essence of our opposition to this law that is before us today. Initially, in the negotiations to amend the Constitution, Nova Slovenija has demanded as many as 10,000 certified signatures, which in our opinion would make the exercise of this constitutional right absolutely impossible. So at least we are glad that in the proposal of this law this number has been reduced to 5,000 certified signatures. Let me say that throughout the history of our country, the number of signatures required under this law is constantly changing. Thus, in 1994, 200 signatures were taken into account, and in 2001 thousands of signatures were signed by citizens, and in 2006 the previous Janša government, and the referee minister was Dr. Virant, also with the help of New Slovenia, adopted an existing law providing for 2 000 500 signatures. In New Slovenia, however, they believe that such an arrangement would prevent abuses and make this right even more important. In Positive Slovenia, as we say, we oppose all restrictions at the so-called entry point. We are aware, however, that there are many problems that we are willing to discuss, but by no means increasing the initial number of signatures proposed. The practice so far has shown that the collection of signatures has repeatedly resulted in the fact that the personal data recorded were unreadable, that incomplete data has been cited, that incorrect addresses of permanent residence have been cited, wrong personal names and so on, as well as rumors that some, some of the customers have even collected packages after 2 000 500 signatures, which I personally find hard to believe. Therefore, it may be possible to consider some form of verification of the identity of signatures that are being collected, and again we think that the verification of an administrative unit by an individual citizen makes this condition significantly worse, because this is just some specific added activity that a citizen must do. We certainly do not agree to the deception in terms of 86 signatures to the administrative unit is only necessary or 22 to another unit, as he said in front of me, and this is indeed misleading. If the election result of New Slovenia were to be divided into administrative units, there would also not be a lot of vote on the electoral unit. So please don't use that kind of stuff. In Positive Slovenia, we are seriously involved in changes to the referendum regime, and we believe that the moment we are discussing this law is unfortunate, in any case, we should wait for what will happen to the change of constitution. There are rumours that some parliamentary groups have already changed their minds in view of the new situation. I hope that this is not the case and that we do not create our views in the light of the current political situation that is changing from day to day. However, it is important to see first what we will be able to agree on in the area of constitutional change. In this respect, Positive Slovenia will then proceed. We may appeal to the withdrawal of this law, if it seems reasonable to the applicant, but I repeat, in Positive Slovenia, that the conditions which are linked to the procedures leading up to the referendum call are such that they allow a small number of voters who are not satisfied with the legislative decisions to propose the regulation of an area or of an individual law adopted by the National Assembly to decide at the referendum. Therefore, minorities also have the opportunity to form a referendum issue and to discuss it. Before I finish, there's only one thing I'd like to point out. I think that in recent times, the implementation of direct democracy has been too closely linked only to the referendum. Direct democracy has multiple forms of decision-making. Many of them are enshrined in the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative. The point of direct democracy is, in particular, that citizens are involved in the legislative process in the initial phase, it is said when laws begin to be adopted when ideas are collected. Our legislation already makes this possible, and we also have a resolution on normative activities, which sets out the possibilities for the general public and the public concerned to participate specifically and actively in the drafting of the law. And here should be the emphasis. We also have opportunities in our legislation and stop after some, say, previous referendums, consultative referendums. Therefore, the referendums carried out after the legislative procedure has ended, when the legislator has already completed his task, must indeed be an exception and limited to extreme and most important matters. And in this sense, we need to think both today and tomorrow in changing the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! At the meetings at which we discussed changes to the Constitution, it was also proposed, once, twice, that it would also be appropriate to consider amending the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative at the same time. So, at the time, it was pointed out that it made sense in some way to have a contemporary approach. However, there was no broad support for this initiative at the time. Later, New Slovenia put this into law and now we have before us a procedure to amend the referendum law, and I think that this is actually one of the areas where we need to be properly regulated, because the standards in this area are very low for the society in which we are, for the time being, in which we are very low. If the matter were properly settled, a wide range of matters in this process would fall away and others would be raised to a significantly higher level of quality and also of trust. This experience, several months ago, when we were dealing with the disappearance of trade unions, was also involved in this process by the National Assembly, and later this was also translated into an intervention against the Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Gorenak, and has shown major shortcomings even in the part of the process in which the State Institute was involved, so is the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior, and despite all these numerous forensic reviews of various institutions, it has not been possible or it has not been possible to identify the places of origin of this problem. Although our opinion has not changed here, this opinion has also been endorsed by the Commission's previous opinion on the prevention of corruption. We are also of the opinion that the collection of signatures on the stand, in the way it is now taking place, is not the best part of the procedure for the initiation of the referendum. In fact, it was never known here how many signatures were collected, whether all these signatures were authentic, that is to say that they were actually contributed by persons, or whether someone there could have fulfilled this for someone if they knew his personal information. This was where minors, in some cases even foreigners, were signed. There is no control over the process of collecting signatures on the stand. There is also a possibility that this has already been pointed out that these signatures are unreadable, and there is also the possibility that such signatures can be used inadvertently. In any case, this may even have occurred. The procedure, as stated, needs to be improved and refined. The proposal for these signatures to be certified is good, as there is nothing wrong with obtaining a certified document on the administrative unit. The certificate would be issued on purpose and then these collected signatures, which are issued on a national authority and which are deliberately issued, do not in any way need to be verified according to those criteria as is now the case. Whether these signatures are sufficient or not would be known very quickly. We'd gain at least a week in this test procedure. I also think it is a good solution that such signatures are included in the quota of 40,000 signatures. After that, this procedure shall not be sharpened. In fact, those who have collected sufficient numbers to start the procedure, to collect 40,000 signatures, have even a certain advantage, because that deadline for collecting 40,000 signatures does not change, but this weekly part is simply added to those 35 days and it is then necessary to obtain so many less certified signatures in the referendum process. I think there are considerable simplifications and also some advantages. This debate on whether this proposal is appropriate or not is a matter for continuation of the procedure. Some people think it's too much, others might sharpen it. We will support that option with regard to the number of signatures that will lead to an appropriate solution, that is, the adoption of the law if this process continues. However, I believe that something needs to be done in this area. As regards our parliamentary group, we will support the law at this stage, but if there is to be a continuation of the procedure, we will certainly need to take into account any other views of other parties, including other instigators. The point of this process is that things are being simplified to address any perceived shortcomings and potential errors that have occurred so far. This also does not essentially affect the tightening of these entry thresholds, because more or less of all these key things remain the same, but the improvement is in this part when this entry threshold of 2 000 500, 5 000 or 7 000, as determined, is already included in those 40,000 signatures to be collected within 35 days. We believe that this is also a good opportunity and also the advantage of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Already at the College of the President of the National Assembly, when we decided on the procedure, we proposed, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative should be considered on a regular basis, not in short terms, because it is an extremely important and difficult legal matter, which is by no means necessary to change after a reduced procedure. If we look at the history of amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative in that part concerning the collection of signatures, we can see that the original text of this Act provided for a thousand signatures to be collected for the opening of the referendum procedure. Later, the law changed to such a number as is now in force, so that 2 000 500 signatures of voters are to be collected to put forward a referendum initiative. Thus, already in the history of this law, the number of signatures has increased by 150 %. If we look at this concrete proposal, it raises a new threshold to 5,000 voters' signatures, which means that from the existing 2 000 500 to 100% would increase this entry threshold. However, there is a huge difference between what is now in force in this law and what should apply if such a law were to be enforced. In doing so, it must be said that the deadline needed to collect these new five thousand signatures is the same as before at 2 000 500 signatures. In any event, there is also a deadline for further sharpening the possibility of collecting sufficient signatures to launch a referendum initiative within this deadline. If we add to this the proposal contained in this law relating to the certification of signatures, this is an additional aggravation of the conditions, because it is certainly easier to obtain signatures before the building of the administrative unit than if a complex procedure for the certification of signatures has to be carried out. Many times, individuals who are at that time close and who want to sign may not have a personal document with them at that time. In short, a whole series of problems can arise when we legitimize signatures. The law is indeed trying to limit this entry threshold, which is necessary for the electoral and electoral process to be launched. To this end, however, we should give further warning in particular in the sense that there is also an amendment to Article 90 of the Constitution in the procedure in the National Assembly. In fact, this law also means a departure from what is being prepared as a possible text to be enshrined in the Constitution. This law limits and makes it difficult for voters and voters to request a referendum, and it still preserves that the National Assembly, with the signatures collected by Members and Members, will call for a referendum and also retains the right of the State Council. Here is a significant departure from what we consider to be the meaning of the referendums, that is, that the real people have this right to initiate this procedure and that the constitutional right to direct decision-making is also being exercised. This law, however, goes in the direction of restricting the right of the electorate and the electorate, and it still preserves it for Parliament and for the Council of State. This is also in fact a key difference from what we are discussing in the context of the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution, which speaks of a referendum. We must stress that there is a change of constitution in the direction that the referendum becomes the exclusive right of voters and voters, not more politics within the framework of the National Assembly and the Council of State. It would therefore make sense that the legislative procedure of this bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative does not continue, because if there is a change to the Constitution, which in fact means the enforcement of the possibility of electorates and voters expressing this will in the referendum, only at their request, it will still be necessary to amend and adapt the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative accordingly. In any event, it will have to be broken into this law, but of course this intervention is much more controlled, much more deliberate if it is consistent with what can be enshrined in the Constitution. It is not, however, to ignore the warning given by the section or representatives of the section operating within the Constitutional Commission, who warned that in Slovenia, however, it would be necessary to consider what procedure would be more appropriate and effective in order to carry out the procedure for collecting sufficient signatures. The proposal was mentioned to simply open the voter for one day and then the process of collecting signatures is carried out. This leaves a very large dilemma, does not last more than 30, 40 days, and no one really knows whether this will succeed or fail, but in one day this problem will be solved, but all voters will, of course, open up to this end. There are solutions that need to be further explored before we go to changes in the entry thresholds, so we think it would be really more reasonable that this process does not proceed at this point. Finally, the procedure itself began unusually. This law is in the procedure of the parties to the coalition and the coalition does not have enough votes; two-thirds of the Members present are necessary for this law to be adopted. Only in the case of, I don't know, the absence of the opposition could be achieved, but the fact is that this is a matter in which the opposition will definitely participate in these meetings, and the process itself is a departure from what we have agreed in this mandate at the then President of the National Assembly, to initiate procedures for amending the Constitution or, say, laws where two-thirds of the support of Members and Members is needed, only if we check the possibility of such support before. This option has not been verified here, so we also consider it one of the major shortcomings in initiating the procedure in this amendment of the law by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. Mag. Katarina Hočevar, on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, and thank you very much. In the Civil Gazette we have also contributed our own signatures when amending and supplementing the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. The amendments and amendments to the law follow the logic set out in the chapter of the People's Initiative, so that at least 5,000 voters, signatories, can submit to the National Assembly a proposal for a law. In the Civil Gazette, we have repeatedly stressed in the coordination phase that we advocate the same number of signatures, both for the introduction of the law and for the initiative to reject the law. We therefore support the essential solution in this proposal that 5,000 voters should be signed under the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum. The proposal also eliminates unnecessary duplication in its content, including the required quota of 40,000 signatures for the submission of an invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum on the initiative of the electorate. This proposed solution, however, is a small step or contribution, one stone in the mosaic of removing administrative obstacles, for which we are committed in all areas of our country's operation. We also support this proposal for a law in our midst as a step towards preventing blockades when individuals with collected unreliable signatures tried to obstruct the implementation of the provisions of each law. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, while stressing that we are also prepared to support a solution aimed at reducing the number of certified signatures or extending the time limit for collecting signatures if such a proposal is to prove to be a compromise in the further consideration of the law with the majority required in this National Assembly for changes and additions to such legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and continue with the general debate. First, he asked the mag for a word on behalf of the proposer. Matthew Tonin, followed by Matjaž Han and Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. One more good-bye to everyone. I volunteered because I would like to draw attention to some of the things that I think are being misinterpreted or the wrong impression is being made. Once again, it is important to tell everyone that this is the first time that the law is being examined. At the request of the opposition, this consideration of this law has also been extended. Today we are not taking anything definitive, today we are only deciding whether this debate on the organisation of the referendum institute is continuing or ending. I think it is wise to deal with these issues and to continue this debate. For this reason, I ask you not to vote in favour of the conclusion that this law is inappropriate for further consideration. In fact, we are leaving an open way for further discussion. I must also say this, although we are being exposed, it is true that we have written this law in the New Slovenia Group of Members, but this law has also been signed by other parliamentary groups, the entire former coalition, if I may say so. During the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, the representatives of the unions developed the inscription "Let the voice of the people." We're letting him go. Not only do we leave it to people, but the proposals go this way to give it only to people. For there are countries, if you have read comparative studies, you can find that in Austria, Estonia, Slovakia, for example, there are countries in Europe where people do not have this option, but a referendum can only require politics. We are all going this way so that only people can have the referendum. How can a large group request a referendum? The one you came a little later, I've already shown the graph before, and now I'm showing it again. A very small minority will be able to request a referendum. This definitely does not appear to me to be a reduction in any democratic rights. Is this number 5,000 correct and appropriate? In the first preliminary talks I had, you argued many times, the entire former coalition said that this number was acceptable to them, the Social Democrats said they seemed a little too high, and in Positive Slovenia they said that they would not be defined for these things at informal meetings. This is an official meeting of the National Assembly, and I think this is the ground that this is an opportunity to discuss such things if we cannot agree at informal meetings that we can negotiate here. I ask the Positive Slovenia to give this opportunity to continue this procedure and to continue this law and to seek further common solutions, to discuss and find the necessary two-thirds majority of those present. Why 5 grand? My colleague Maša Kociper talked about not just talking about the referendum, we are also talking about an initiative on which people can propose a law. It is in the current Slovenian regime that 5,000 certified signatures, that is, 5,000 citizens, can propose a law to Parliament. From this we have drawn a parallel, if 5,000 certified signatures are needed for the marriage, then it seems acceptable that 5,000 signatures are also needed for the referendum. I'm aware that it's not an easy time. The pressure from the public is enormous. Perhaps you too receive as I do a number of such or other letters, where they warn you not to act antihumanly and I do not know how much more, but let us take a comparative look at other countries as well. In one Latvia, which is at least the size and number of people comparable to Slovenia, 10,000 certified signatures are needed to initiate the referendum process. So we're not asking for something impossible, something to completely restrict democracy. I do not fully understand the unions, why they are so vehemently opposed to this proposal, because this proposal also allows that part of the task to be accomplished. Now it took 2,000 500 signatures to be collected on the street and these signatures, when they were counted, could be placed somewhere and thank you very much. Now these 5,000 signatures will be included in the final quota of 40,000 signatures. So they've already done one part of their job with this start. I think it's more of a help than a restriction on the request for a referendum. It is true that I, too, have heard rumors that some individuals have 2,000,500 signatures in stock. Why? Because our current arrangement requires only that you have 2 thousand 500 correct names and addresses on a piece of paper. But no one checks these signatures, whether these signatures are real or not, or one person has signed for ten people. And from this, of course, certain abuses may arise. The number I mentioned earlier that 81 initiatives have been taken or proposed to reach the referendum, and in the end only 19 referendums have been held. This number is also very eloquent, which means that it is in some ways only 25% of the initiatives. It is clear to me that some who sat on the balcony today wish that two or three signatories could request a referendum and thereby hold back the implementation of the law for a month or more. But is it a democracy that a small group of individuals can block laws that are passed by the vast majority of people or the vast majority of this House? It's not personal for me. He can give it to who he's for. Just two more things. I don't know, I think that Mr Primc of the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights wrote you e-mails, just like I did and I don't know, now obviously these 5,000 signatures are the problem. But when they were collecting signatures, I think within three days 15,000 certified signatures were collected. You have to look at things like that and compare them with each other. And the last thing I want to answer is when my colleague Masha Kociper said how New Slovenia blackmailed certain things. I don't know, let's see what number we started with and where this thing ended. We dropped by half, and we are not on the market, and my colleague Horvat said in the position of the New Slovenia Group that we are still ready to talk and coordinate on these things. If each party behaved in such a way as to be willing to talk, to negotiate, then there would be much less problems in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han, Mr Jurša has checked out, which is why Mirko Brulc is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are ahead of a very important decision as to how to proceed, and how to proceed with the referendums with human initiative in this country. We have been social democrats for many years and, above all, in this matter in recent times, we are very principled and do not behave as the wind blows, because we are once in the opposition, once in a position, but we think that referendums in Slovenia should be handled simply because they have been over-exploited for political purposes and have not produced the right results. At the outset, however, let me say that I am sorry, but I believe in the well-intention of New Slovenia and Mr Tonin in particular, and I will not support the conclusion that the matter is going forward, because from the first day we opened this legislation, we are not acceptable for us to raise our certificates of signatures. The second reason is that we find this moment very irresponsible from the coalition, which is in disintegration, that it is a law that needs two-thirds support, which is, in fact, a technical law that can, without discussing the referendum tomorrow, reject all referendums for the next hundred years. In principle, you can write with one amendment if you're in a bad mood if you're angry at people that we don't need 5,000 signatures, but we need 20,000 signatures, and in Slovenia there will be no more power to bring any referendums under the roof. Because we all know that in one week there are also 5,000 signatures that are certified extremely, extremely difficult. And since you have no two-thirds support, I find it irresponsible. Tomorrow we have a very important article, or we open the Constitution in the 90s, which talks about referendums, but there I think we must put all the parties aside, look forward to the side, whether we will be in position or opposition, and yet say bob beans and vote for my notions an extremely important article in order to change the Constitution in the 90s. I must say that when I accompany these constitutional experts who deal with the Constitution and also our leaders of the parliamentary groups and people who deal with the Constitution, I think you have brought the matter so far that we can in fact give the most important signal to this country tomorrow, that only the people will be able to vote and decide on certain matters, and that there will be no more parties who have political aims to vote and bring referendums to life. And if someone in this period, in the last year and a half, felt what it was like to refer to the referendums politically, then we Social Democrats were at it. I think that last year, when you said four times about the referendums in the coalition, you proved that it wasn't as much about content as it was about political prestige. I therefore think that tomorrow's debate will be significantly more important than today's. And what our group leader has said to us that we are going to adopt such a law after a reduced procedure, I find this moment really irresponsible. We will talk tomorrow about the constitutional amendment of article 90, where we will limit people to citing referendums in one way or another. And if we limit them to the fact that 5,000 signatures will have to be given in order to be able to collect signatures at all, I think this moment is really irresponsible and unnecessary. Since I don't have much time, because my colleagues are behind me, it's not political prestige, it's not because we're in opposition, it's just some normal thinking here, and we've been very clear about it since day one, and we haven't supported the thinking of New Slovenia, so we don't support this law, and we don't support our voices, at least personally, you won't get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much. As has been said, look, it is an extremely tightening of the conditions for the call for a legislative referendum, the people's initiative of citizens and citizens. You know, it's nice to hear, it's nice to get 5,000 signatures in one week, but we need to know, if we're going to guess those who propose a referendum, we can decide that Thursday we're going to start collecting, Tuesday, and Wednesday is going to have to stop. I mean, administrative units don't even have offices open all week and so on. Article 90, which we will discuss tomorrow, prevents Members and Members from making requests for a referendum or for a referendum by the Council of State. It's a big step. If we can't make a deal here, then we can't go out on the street asking people to decide. But such a tightening, as is now predicted, will lead to tomorrow's start collecting signatures for a new referendum – but now, it's up to date. That's why I think we're really killing this civil initiative with this proposal, and we're taking people. [[Incomprehensible]] . But it's interesting, I'm reading magnetograms here in 2001, when it went from a thousand signatures to 2,000. I'm not going to read to you what your boss Janez Janša was discussing at the time. And then the same Juice from New Slovenia. They're all against it. What's changed in your heads? In 2006, with 2 thousand to 2 thousand 500 signatures, not to mention debates, I can read magnetograms, take some, history has its value. Now it's about 5,000 signatures. I don't think that's acceptable. I can't vote for this change because I think we're really closing people's mouth like we did here on the balcony. A few more coalition partners. 42% of people still support this government. Give some of the buttons to press for the benefit of the general good things that occur in this House, but if you are still firmly in the coalition, then do not call the ministers to work further to know what you are up to. That's duality. I'm looking at police law yesterday. Today will be the same. So the coalition is solid, your boss is Janez Janša, very successful and God help this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Brultz. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, then Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Hello again. As a Member, I vote for good suggestions, whether we are in coalition or opposition. I also understand the amendment of article 90, as well as the amendment of the law on referendum and human initiative, as an attempt to raise the threshold of legitimacy in Slovenia and give it more weight than it has ever had. If we are talking about the bill today, I am primarily in favour of collecting certified signatures. In the past, there has been too much controversy about gathering on the street and asking if they have ever been gathered for the purpose of being submitted or filed. In particular, civil society reminds us of the short deadline for collecting these signatures. I can also agree with this statement, but I would like to stress that the campaign to collect signatures begins much earlier. It's the very stage of the legislative process when we're adopting the law. Let's just remember the family code, because two years earlier we talked about it, and let's say those who disagreed with it were warned, and in this way people were also invited, when the time comes, to sign, to collect for a particular important social issue or to reject such a requirement at the referendum. I think that if this is an important social issue, the attention of voters will be aroused by a certain law much earlier than in that formal seven-day or whatever period. I believe that, not with a shaking hand, especially with a peaceful conscience, we must adopt legislation that deals with such an important social issue as the referendum. In doing so, it is important that we hear each other and, above all, that we also hear civil society. It is our job to find a compromise and that the final solution will be such that the majority in this House will be satisfied and that our citizens will be satisfied. In this spirit or in the hope of reaching such a compromise, I will today vote in favour of the continuation of this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, then Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll continue where my colleague Hotchevar ended up. It is true that compromise should be adopted in relation to referendum legislation. But we'll do it tomorrow. Tomorrow is the first step when we all try to agree together in this National Assembly on what makes sense and what is not a meaningful question that voters can ask at the referendum. We're just going to limit ourselves, but we're not going to restrict the electorate significantly. We'll limit them only in the part they wanted themselves. We have been listening for years and years to the fact that the people whose Members we are here are Members of the people, but not some closed political group, ask us not to decide on the highly professional issues that we have now identified in the proposal that will be tomorrow, in particular it is very wise that we no longer discuss human rights and other constitutional matter that must be protected and should not be able to bring them down. And this marriage is a surprise to me. I do not know why, in this long-term procedure we are leading in this mandate, it is now coming to this law. Look, the proponents said today when they presented New Slovenia's parliamentary position that power belongs to the people. We have written this down in our constitution to really give people the opportunity to influence. By raising the threshold of those who want only to give support to an initiative, not even in their decision, and by travelling them to officially sign their signatures, we limit them to the same initial stage. Mr Tonin said that this law removes political blockades. True, but let us imagine, colleagues and colleagues, sometimes it is very necessary to block politics. Let's be a little self-critical about what's coming on this mission. In recent years, we have found that I will not only say in this mandate, even in previous mandates, that in the second part of the period of independence of Slovenia the impact of civil society and professions on the drafting of legislation is diminishing. As a result of this reduction, laws are then formed in official groups or in narrow political groups. Yeah, that's why we have to let people who see that in some area things are going in the wrong direction to try to make a referendum. Look, if they don't have support, they won't collect enough signatures for the invitation to tender. But in this period, when people at demonstrations tell us that they want more direct democracy, in my opinion it is completely unwise to limit the legally regulated direct democracy that we already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, then Mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you. I'm going to say very briefly my position that I'm against tightening the terms. On the other hand, I must say that I support the part concerning the certification of signatures. This will also avoid what we witnessed two months ago, or even earlier, when the trade unions' signatures disappeared on the way from the National Assembly to the Ministry of Interior and vice versa. If we already have administrative units, let these signatures be certified, but I'm against sharpening as far as the numbers are concerned. Personally, I believe that this number could remain 2 000 500, but certified signatures, so that on the one hand we would not experience the perceptions that they normally collect on the market or that tourists passing through Prešeren's monument contribute. On the other hand, they would also prevent these signatures from being manipulated to investigate whether or not they are authentic, whether these people are residents of Slovenia or not, because these matters would be clearly visible on the basis of whether these signatures were certified in the administrative unit. If you understand me, I'm a reasonable compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Vogrin. I don't see him in the hall. And then Gaspar Gaspar Music, then just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President. The referendum is the most important form of direct democracy, and in Slovenia it has the power of the people, so I will begin. The proposal to change and intervene in this constitutional right is, in my opinion, at a time when people are unhappy when they are disappointed with politics, over policies that have not driven the country along the path of development in two decades, but along the path of decommissioning the social and legal state. Instead of dealing with economic problems to create conditions for hiring people to create conditions for a decent life for a person, we are working on limiting the human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The source of all the problems in the incapacity of Slovenian politicians and politicians, who in the two decades with fair governance of the country, have made it possible with a fair incapacity to fail the Slovenian economy and, as a result, have endangered the existence of many state-owned institutions, resulting in the destruction of the apostolics of the social and legal state and once a very advanced, promising republic in the wider international space. Where there is prosperity, I ask you, dear gentlemen, who should bring more and no less rights to citizens and citizens. The referendums are only a result of dissatisfaction. The referendum is kind of corrective for those who have power. We politicians have only this opportunity and the honour to manage, temporarily manage the property of the state to lead this country – we have not gained power, the power of the people. And when we have a temporary right to govern the state and state property, we take this right to reduce the rights of those who actually exercise power. So that this security guard, which is often a barrier to us, is somehow being processed, we can complete it in a way that makes it easier to steer in the wrong direction. As I said, the referendum is just a security guard when politics and politics lose their compass. If these two decades had been the same as the constitution, if people had jobs, if people had all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, then there would certainly have been no referendum initiatives. In 1994, only 100 signatures, or 200 signatures, were required, and in 2001 a thousand signatures were raised during the Drnovška government. Then in 2006 at the time of Janša's government to 2 000 500 signatures, today, again in the time of the Janša government, we want to raise this threshold to 5,000, or proposals were even 10,000. I see we've got a lot of problems with the referenda. But I would like to point out that the referendums are only a result of the dissatisfaction of people, due to the inability of politicians and politicians to run the country properly. And unfortunately, no one in the country was responsible for this ignorance. We destroyed the economy, we destroyed the key economic sectors, we lost many opportunities and opportunities. There is a violation of human rights, social threats, pressures and could also be listed. But you think people can go to a referendum and stand in the cold in front of parliament or walk the streets and wear banners that say they're unhappy. No, believe me, they don't enjoy it. Only when you're in trouble do you go from warm to cold and stand there for hours and hours and warn politicians that something's really wrong in this country. And if this is not a strong enough message that Slovenian politics has missed direction, then I don't know what else we need. No, let us restrict citizens and citizens so that they cannot fight against Slovenian politicians who want more power. Remember something, we don't have authority in our hands, we never had it, and I hope we never have it, that it will always be written in the constitution, that power is exercised by the people. And if the government has a people, then don't limit this correction and this fuse. In fact, we can stifle policies and limit policies so that they do not exploit the Institute of Referendum for their political games and goals. Certainly not the people. This is the only right thing to do, and this is the only right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Misich. Mr. Bevk only, then Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Honorable Assembly. Today and tomorrow we will talk or talk about referendum legislation, today about the proposal or amendment of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, and tomorrow about the opening of the procedure for amending the Constitution of Slovenia, Article 90, if I am not mistaken. Now, I don't know if this is being supplemented or more ruled out, we should know what today's move means for tomorrow's debate. I certainly think that there is a need to limit this referendum, which has fallen apart particularly during the previous Pahor's government, and which has essentially stopped the reforms that have been urgently needed to remedy the crisis in our country. But I absolutely agree, and I have the same opinion as those who say that 5,000 certified signatures on administrative units in such a short period of time are absolutely too large. For the first time there are too many 5,000 certified signatures, and for the second time there is a short deadline for collecting these 5,000 certified signatures. We know how difficult it is to collect, say, 5,000 signatures for citizens and citizens to submit a bill to the National Assembly, because in all of Slovenian Parliamentary history we have only experienced one such proposal that citizens and citizens propose a law based on 5,000 certified signatures. And now it's just that we're going to collect these 5,000 certified signatures so that we can even request a referendum, and even if these 5,000 signatures are going to be included in the quota of 40,000 so that we can finally decide at the referendum on some law, it's absolutely too much. Comparative arrangements for referendums in Europe are, of course, significantly different. So, in fact, any arrangement is fine if Parliament adopts it. As we'll arrange, so will we. For example, in Italy and Poland there are 500 thousand signatures, in Switzerland 50,000, in Hungary 200,000, in Latvia dozens of voters, in Lithuania 300 000. Of course, these signatures need to be certified somewhere, not elsewhere, and there are differences in the prescribed deadlines. In short, I do not agree with this large number of 5,000, as the representatives of the proposer themselves have said that they are ready to agree on this issue. Perhaps we could also discuss that the time for collecting these signatures would be a little longer than just seven days, if I am not mistaken. But it really needs to be sharpened so that we don't have a referendum every month. In the 2004-2008 mandate, according to the previous government's mandate, we had a referendum on the provinces, which was attended by 11% of voters and voters. I don't think we need such referendums in our country. We do not need referendums attended by some 10% of the people, this is essentially just a waste of money, although on the other hand decisions at these referendums are binding. I would like to appeal to you to discuss this further, but we will continue this debate tomorrow on constitutional change, and it seems to me that these two things are a little bit off. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, then Mr. Simčič and Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must thank you for the debate of the distinguished colleague Sam Bevek, who has detected, has shown our goodwill, that democracy must be discussed in a democratic debate about whether it is too much or too little. It is true that we are willing to talk about this issue to find the best solution for the country, without restricting democracy, but to find the best optimal solution. Dear colleague Kociprova has already said that our first thought was first 10,000, now we have come to 5,000. Once again, we have 58 administrative units in our country, we have 170, plus minus two local offices. But we also have e-democracy, maybe too underdeveloped right now. And once again my appeal, let us be among the first in Europe, and appeal to the government, whatever, present and future, to enable all citizens and citizens to distribute digital certificates and to do much more and we must do something to develop e-democracy. I mean, at least that's how I felt after the debate so far that we're united when we're talking about certified signatures. I guess we all have an experience of what it means to sign when you propose a law or something. This signature also goes directly to the electronic record and in fact we can also monitor the number of signatures delivered in real time. That seems like the right thing to do. Look, signatures collected on sidewalks, on the streets, that's more like it. This is too serious a matter for us to play with our signatures, and I am not going to be talking long about the Greek experience we have with signatures right now in this house. Why did we put 5,000 in the bill now? Because under the current legislation, you also need 5,000 signatures from citizens and citizens if you invest in the National Assembly as electors and voters, as citizens and citizens of the bill. We have this experience. When we were outside Parliament in the previous term, we could only use this instrument and bring more than 5,000 certified signatures and a proposal for a law on the agri-agricultural chamber to the National Assembly. When we talk about the referendum, perhaps this law is not so relevant, but my thought is always burdened by the fact that some of the solutions adopted at the referendums were no longer taken into account. This is a problematic issue, and here we need to talk about the realization of democracy. That's the problem. Not of course the problem of this law, the problem of democracy as such. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we do not close the door to this bill so that we can find the best solution in the next parliamentary procedure. Once again, we are open to all proposals, they are extremely important to us, and let us find some good solution, because we probably all agree that different decisions must be taken in the referendum area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Simčič in the Chamber who is supposed to be the next debater, nor Alenka Bratušek. Here comes Mr. Fish and then the Jew. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Once again, if something is proposed on one side, they must be on the other side against. And we do it day in and day out. How much longer? Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. The point is, in my opinion, that the signatures are certified, the point is that people know what they signed, that the content of the requirement is on the same list, the point is that we have no doubt about the validity of the signatures, the point is that the signatures are not ready for stock. Whether it's 5,000 or less, it's a matter of conversation. Whether it is time to gather seven days or some day more or less, it is also a matter of agreement. However, if this is really a topic that draws the attention of the general public, which also concerns a slightly wider spectrum of people, then no organisation or group of people should have a problem collecting at least one eighth of the signatures required by legislation to call for a referendum. As far as technical implementation is concerned. In the Slovenian People's Party, it will be difficult to buy a story that administrative units are overloaded and cannot do so. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the direction of the law and expect further coordination and participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. He's a Jew, then Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! This bill fully shows how the target can be missed. Of course we in Slovenia have problems with referendums due to the will of political parties. Yes, dear colleagues and colleagues, you will not forget, because of these here through me, who hear in the name of SDS and those who do not hear in the name of DeSUS, we had, one is, I'm sorry, we had a referendum fiasco. This referendum fiasco costs this country more than half a billion euros per year. It's no problem for this country to have too much debt. We have significantly less of them than our competing countries. The problem with this country is that with the referendum fiasco, customers' will has made it impossible to pay interest. If we had an interest rate that was then respected by the President, our annual cost would be around EUR 300 million. However, due to the will of political parties, there are almost a billion euros, so over half a billion costs have been incurred for us. It is impossible to correct mistakes in referendum legislation in such a way as to punish those who are innocent. This is civil society. Civil society has the right to demand correction of not too smart decisions by the National Assembly, but we do not have a Member and Members, who are in the minority, through referendums the right to blackmail the majority. That is why I do not support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, then Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we could say that we've all received a lot of comments. That's what Mr. Tonin was talking about. And we have encouraged an extremely broad debate by discussing issues relating to constitutional change and referendum issues. Maybe this isn't the right time to talk about how much more important it would be to talk about something else, about new jobs, about employment, about what the guardian said yesterday, about a lot of other things. But since that's ahead of us, that's the right thing to say. The Alliance of Retired Persons has already told us that if these conditions are tightened, it will require a legislative referendum and that it will also implement it. Well, there's a lot of comments. Let me read what they wrote to us: "In the process of preparing legal and constitutional changes so far, the people were excluded from the debate, the procedure was untransparent, illegal, illegal, therefore unconstitutional. We demand real democracy and strongly oppose any restriction of direct democracy." It is said that we have opened something where it would be right to take civil initiative, with civil society, whatever we call it, to agree and try in some way to make those changes that will go into having more and better democracy. Let me remind you of one question. Do you remember the Personal Assistance Act, ladies and gentlemen? Do you remember him? There were 5,000 signatures, he was filed, and we didn't respect it. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, too, because I was a member of the National Assembly. Do you remember how you voted and what you said then? "The law is not suitable for further consideration." And what you're talking about today has been presented as an argument. This is where it was submitted. Therefore, it seems to me that very delicate changes should be made to the conditions under which we can amend referendum legislation and conditions. And let me remind you something about the Personal Assistance Act. Do you remember what was said at the time as some very important argument? "On the month of December, we will have a better marriage in the National Assembly, which will better solve all that we had in the Personal Assistance Act." So December's over. Of course it was 2012, not 2013. And that would be a good idea for us to listen to people. To try to understand them, even one who doesn't have one euro to give, say, for something else, doesn't have it and can't do it. That's what I'm trying to say. This is where we passed the Health Act. With this in mind, without public debate, without professional arguments and without listening to common sense, we brought together nine institutions and that institution, as they say, a public health institute or something like that, into two new institutions, two hybrids, without knowing what the results would be. Today, workers are collecting signatures for the referendum, trying to collect signatures. I can tell you firsthand that it is extremely difficult to collect 5,000 certified signatures in a short time, even within 40 days it is difficult to collect them. However, signatures can be collected relatively simply by those with very good organisation in the back, perhaps by large political parties, perhaps by associations such as agricultural unions, such as pensioners and others. Then we come to the situation that those who want to say their own right and who are in some way handicapped and affected, that is, civil society and associations, but then we don't take them into account. It would therefore be right to make a very subtle change in the constitution. Tomorrow we will talk about another subject: who can sign or sign a referendum. I may agree that this should not be us here in the National Assembly, but that we have also made it impossible and prevented the State Council from taking steps so that people can make decisions. And of course that's not good and that's not right. People must have a relatively simple right to make decisions in their own name and in their own conviction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper, then Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Since I've had time in my opening remarks, I won't be long. Our position is clear, we do not agree to an increase in the number of signatures required, so-called entry points. However, I would like to explain something about the proposed regulation referred to by the proposer. There was something in these discussions about the speech that the current regulation under the Law on the Referendum and the People's Abuse Initiative, and I myself have mentioned that there should be even lists of signatures, sets of signatures that some have prepared for supply. I have already said in the introduction that this seems unlikely to me, because the law in article 16 tells me what the electoral initiative must contain, namely: "The initiative must contain a defined requirement in accordance with Article 16c and then at least 2 000 500 electoral signatures in its support, and signatures must be collected on the list in which each list of signed lists defines the content of the requirement." Thus, from the standpoint of respect for the law and this article, the collection of these 2,000 500 signatures has been made difficult. In particular, I have called to point out that the term'signature verification' used by the applicant is also likely to be inappropriate. If we look at electoral law, electoral experts say that the signature at the administrative unit mentions the identification or confirmation of the signatory, and this is an administrative act that already expresses a willful or express opinion and experts believe that it is not appropriate to exercise the right to vote. For the exercise of electoral law, it is much more appropriate to identify voters, and this is also a proposal from one of the civil initiatives, because of all the shortcomings that you have listed among you and which have indeed appeared in the past, to add that, according to our information, there have also been situations where persons listed were dead or later declared never to have signed. To really avoid such situations, however, we could introduce a preliminary check by the administrative unit at the time of signature collection. It is said that those who collect signatures could also immediately carry out the identification procedure carried out by the Ministry of the Interior at the administrative unit. This would be possible and would involve some greater predictability in this collection of signatures. Otherwise, just a few words on the subject of civil initiative. Civil initiatives are very necessary, they play an important role in each society, but they must also be aware of their roles. Civil initiatives tend to address, not some of the general broader social issues, but some of the bottlenecks. In this context, we must also understand their role. Therefore, such a narrow group that pursues a narrower, otherwise legitimate interest cannot just break the law – about it tomorrow, and I will therefore conclude that we should really serve in this sense other initiatives under the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which our legislation allows or perhaps other options under our constitution. As I mentioned earlier, previous and consultative referendums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues! I have read the initiative of our respected applicants carefully, and in this introductory part, where the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, I have read one very interesting paragraph. If I may quote him. Finally, you say: "The proposal for the amendment of the law considers that the Slovenian referendum regime is inadequate because it is being abused for political blockades. The possibilities for calling a referendum should be limited from the outset and, consequently, also in the constitution, clearly stated which matters of the referendum cannot be described." On the basis of this paragraph, I conclude a number of things. First of all, I wonder what was meant by the question or by the claim of political blockades, which is what political blockades are. Another time. I see in this paragraph that it wants to limit the referendum at the very beginning of the procedure. And the third time. I also see that, in all likelihood, from what is written, the proposalers support the amendment of the Constitution when it comes to determining which topics or which matters the referendum should not be signed. But when I ask myself, because it is difficult to see what political blockades are for you, I am trying to define them for myself and I think that political blockades are essentially those people who already have a political voice and are trying to use this political voice and political status to block a political decision. I cannot say that people, ordinary citizens who start collecting signatures, are already politicians to take the initiative for a referendum. They are clearly not yet in the stage of political blockade because they do not yet have this opportunity to be politicians. Politicians will only become politicians when their initiative is adopted and they will go into the next phase, so they will collect the following signatures that are necessary for the National Assembly to accept their request for a referendum. It is said that if we want to end the political blockade, we should consider which politicians should be deprived of a political voice in order to remove, as you say, political blockades. And I think that it is likely that the abolition of the political voice of Members and the Council of State when it comes to the invitation to a legislative referendum should also be supported on your part. When the question arises, what is it now with the same start, that is, how to limit people at the very beginning of the initiative, and I see that this initiative is in the direction of limiting those who have, at the moment, made the most of their political mobilization or mobility in the sense that they also want to be active citizens themselves. And these are the protestors, the people on the streets and all those who are either carrying around transparent or warning us through different electronic and other messages that tell us that they want to participate in active politics. We now take a vote with this initiative, or with this proposal to amend the law, and we take this initiative to them in such a way that we three times tighten the conditions for their entry into politics. First time. We demand more signatures from them. Another time. We demand they're certified. And the third time. We give them the same time as Bevk said before as they have after the current marriage to collect 2,000 500 signatures. Some of you say that this initiative is about removing administrative barriers. I don't see it here. I think it's a zero-sum game. If you're asking people and administrative units to launch 5,000 certified signatures, then it's more administrative barriers than a fellow mag. The miller explained earlier, no less. Of course, if you then mercifully tell them that they can give these 5,000 signatures at the next stage for the 40,000 needed to accept the request, this is in fact just some kind of mercy aid at the next stage. But people can't get to that next phase. And many times there will be a lot of work of administrative units that will help to collect 5,000 certified signatures, in fact, in vain, because many initiatives do not come to the stage that the National Assembly will accept such requests, that is to say, until the stage when 40,000 signatures are already being collected for the adoption of the phase. I would therefore say that if we go back to what the applicant wrote in the introduction, the answer to the search for solutions from this introduction is in tomorrow's debate on the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Žwiglič is not here with us, but Mr Janez Vasle, who is next in line, is then Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and fellow Members! Although my debate may now be more possible in the sense of a citizen for whom we are now trying to change this thing somehow, in view of this past experience with the referendums I cannot avoid the impression that this important form of expression of human will has been used many times for other purposes. I must say that as a citizen myself and my family and I have become accustomed to them and also to my surroundings, that all sorts, elections, referendums, this is one such right that we have every so many years, every so long at our disposal, and we are obliged to take part in it. However, this consciousness is largely absent from our citizens. However, as a citizen, I have also felt several times that this responsibility to enact some important laws is transferred in this way from experts, from the legislative body to citizens. But despite all these concerns, I am convinced that the referendum is a very serious matter and one of the most important institutes of human initiative. I also believe that this is an important phase that will make the referendum even more credible and also prepare us citizens to take these matters more seriously and participate, regardless of the weather and the like. And even in this way, when these signatures are certified, the proposal for a referendum will be an instrument of some kind of blockade or of greater interest. As far as collecting signatures and certification is concerned, once again as a citizen at the municipal level, I have some experience in collecting and certifying signatures, but I do not think that this withdrawal from 2 000 500 to 5,000 signatures for the country is too much. And what my colleague Horvat has already mentioned by introducing this electronic option, modern technology will be even less difficult for this part. But there is also another possibility, I think we took advantage of it even once in one referendum when those working Saturdays for administrative units were, let's say, adopted by administrative units. I have to say that I was also involved in this collection of signatures at the time, but there was no special response on Saturday, Sunday. So these days, even this gross net doesn't change the essence. But I think that if this was a problem, that this part of the administrative units might be able to engage even in such cases that the time for collecting signatures would be both gross and net. It is also true that we have already had in some referendums that the will of the people was different, that, for example, it was expressed that what was required was confirmed, and the legislator then did not take this into account. I think this has already been mentioned, if we remember, and this opening time of trade on Sundays is such a thing. I will support this bill at this stage. We can see that different themes are opening up. For me, too, these views are very interesting and I think it would be really unwise for this proposal to be rejected at this stage, regardless of the fact that it has been rejected by my group leader, but let us give him the opportunity to discuss this and recommend further discussion. As I say, I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The referendum legislation, which was adopted in 1994 and then amended several times, has certainly also shown bad wages or what actually needs to be changed. I support the bill myself and will also support the amendment of the law. Because we all know what it's like to collect signatures on the stand when you're in a hurry, someone's knocking on your sleeve and offering you a signature. For all sorts of things, signatures are collected, I don't know, drug addiction prevention communities, I don't know what else, and when you're in a hurry, you're in a hurry, we sign a lot. The referendum initiative is, in my opinion, a very serious matter and should therefore be taken seriously. Those who sign must also be aware of what they have signed. I don't think those who take this signature collection seriously are going to have a problem collecting 5,000 signatures. But as much as this problem is, of course, it is still possible to agree on a smaller number. I don't think we're taking anything with this, but things are going to be much more transparent and clear, because going to the administrative units and signing it means that with what you're signing, you're going to realize that you have a serious purpose and that you're seriously supporting it. Like I said, if you sign something on the street, it could be a problem. If I say just one case from the past. During the period 2004-2008, when we changed the Holy School Offices to three - three - three, that is, three local communities, three employees and three parents, the SWIZ union collected signatures against this. And then, when we reviewed these signatures, of course, they didn't have to be certified on the administrative unit, it was only the number they operated on when we reviewed these signatures, we found that they were signed by the pensioners' companies on their trips, even they wrote that they were on the trip, he signed the whole bus, they probably didn't really know what they were signing. Then there were a lot of signatures from Velenje Coal, black leaves, I don't know, miners were obviously very intensely involved in how the sacred institutions would be made up. Indeed, there have been many abuses or things that we cannot be proud of. One such conclusion of a similar way of collecting signatures was then also seen here – in the wake of the blemish that happened when not even the signatories, so the signatory of the trade union of the rubber industry did not know how many signatures he gave, we did not know how many signatures were accepted in the National Assembly, then it traveled to the Ministry of the Interior and back again we did not know how many signatures there were. However, if signatures are certified in administrative units, virtually every moment knows how many signatures there are, I avoid subsequent verification, which I think is completely pointless, as it has happened whether they are citizens or not. If they are to sign or have to submit signatures to the administrative unit, it is immediately known that only citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, full-year citizens and so on can sign them. These signatures are then also counted under the quota of 40 thousand. If you signed on the stand now, you had to go to the administrative unit and sign it after 40 thousand signatures had to be collected and the procedure was determined. So someone signed it twice and had something to do with it. If you'd basically signed on the administrative unit, this job would have been done once. As I say, I support the amendment of the law and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak and then Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Well, Mr Tonin, now is the time to discuss this law in the right place, given that I have made it clear to you months ago that there is no time and place for us to talk informally about such a law. But I don't know if it's the right time to talk about this marriage. Here, of course, I have concerns and reasons, so let me take two steps back and explain the following things to you. Initially, when the law itself was introduced or even before it was introduced, we must admit that this law was introduced because there was actually a debate on constitutional changes in the field of the referendum. Today, we have heard quite a few interpreters and copyists who have actually stated that it is the right time to talk about the law at the same time in the wake of constitutional changes. I'm not so sure if that's true. First, the debate on constitutional changes must be concluded and only then should it be seen what is meaningful and meaningful change within the law. If we are more practical and look at what was really what the original proposal was, and the proposal from the debate to the introduction of the bill has already changed, of course, the number of signatures and this threshold, when, in fact, the one who is interested in, based on the law on human initiative, the referendum itself, should be asked what we are actually doing. On the one hand, in the constitutional field, we want and say that we would like to, and this was, of course, the intention at the outset, which, through the process of debate itself, has actually led to the point that it is not about restricting the electorate, but primarily about restricting those who, by law and by the constitution, already have the opportunity to propose and decide on the legislation itself to limit the referendum process itself. But I don't know if that's how it is with this law. I'll think this way. If this desire and honesty, when it comes to procedures and even e-business, how should I in the long term, as I heard a colleague of Horvath, who declared that it would be good if, sooner or later, every electorate could quickly decide both at the referendum and at the elections, of course, this means for both institutes, there should be a lot of change in this country. We know that we have had problems in this National Assembly to persuade Members to start e-commerce in the documents themselves, let alone get all the voters to the electronic elections, whether it's a referendum or an election. That is why it makes sense to take such steps when we even have a picture ahead of us, what we really want in this country. But I would seriously believe such a proposal if this law provided for something else. Not 2 thousand 500 in the administrative unit or 5,000 in the administrative unit, but if we were to propose and say that 2,000 signatures are enough to start the procedure, let's get you to the administrative unit. Then I would believe in this honesty that this marriage could have taken one step further. And the voters will also believe that it is not a matter of restricting the one who started this procedure, that he wants only to bring them to the administrative unit and make them even more complicated. If we do only go to the administrative unit, then people will understand that we want to restrict them, slow them down, make the whole process difficult. However, if we reduce the number from 2 000 500 to 2 000 and say, at the same time, do this in the administrative unit, so that we can exercise very clearly how this process would actually go, then I believe in the honesty of this law, that it wants to eliminate, facilitate and what I know what else. However, this is not a ready fact to hold such a debate when the time is ripe for it and when we know exactly what we have done with the constitution. This means that we must first clear our minds on the constitution and see what we have achieved there and then open a broad debate and, with some in-depth public debate on this issue, also see whether this is feasible, possible and so on. If he were to succeed in concluding that this law would go on to a second reading, he might not be able to see what that really means. However, in such a way, with such a proposal, I do not believe that we will be able to reach this second reading so quickly, I seriously suggest to the proposer and all other actors that we are participating in and have the opportunity to decide that you are thinking about two levels: we can really make it easier in the sense that these signatures will not be tested again in the administrative unit at the second stage, and that we let this number down to 2,000, that people will really believe that we want to invite them to a direct and direct decision – what they keep telling us. [[..]] So much to think about, and with my contribution, I think the discussion will be easier this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u54	Yes, I cannot get rid of the feeling, and this feeling also saddens me a little bit that it is still very important in what position a Member is in. For example, if he is a member of the coalition or if he is a member of the opposition, I see that you have a different understanding or are thinking differently. You're saying it's not a good time. When's the right time? This proposal, as amended by Article 90 of the Constitution, has nothing to do with it, but this proposal is up to date at any time, whether the constitution changes or does not change the constitution, refers only to the number of signatures and the certification of these signatures. And what colleague Möderndorfer has now said has the ideal opportunity to take his proposal into account and to come to him if he allows this law to move forward at first reading. If you are voting against this proposal, this means that we will end all matters today. But if you're voting for it, you're just giving us a chance to keep talking about whether this number is 5,000, 2 thousand 500, 2 thousand, I don't know. But the important thing that tells me that you should support this today, if you don't look at the coalition-opposition relationship, is that your votes will be crucial in the final decision, our old coalition, the limited coalition of this law cannot accept it without you. You have the decisive word here. And because of this, I find all these debates ridiculous, how inappropriate the time should be, how should we wait, because you will ultimately decide whether you will allow this law to be seen by the light of the world or not. If you tell him, O.K., Tonin, let's leave him alone now, after this hearing, we'll settle down again and agree on the number and verification of these signatures, which I felt in the debate, that there was no issue for anyone. This seems to me to be some sort of sane and logical thinking. But the rest is political overreaction. And when there's another treatment, you'll still have a chance, you'll say, look, this law is unacceptable to us, the number is too high. And I ask you to be so honest and not here to involve a change of constitution and these things. This has nothing to do with it. Our law only applies to numbers. That's one thing. But I will only conclude with this, and it can happen that you will be in the coalition very soon, and I will be in the opposition. But I'm not looking over these eyes today, because if we're looking over this, then we're doing ourselves a lot of damage. Then you will be able to appreciate the great value of this proposal when you want to do something and do certain things, and there will be individuals on the street who will collect 2 000 500 signatures for you, without a real wish for the referendum to come, just because a certain law will keep you for a month and this month for certain things. I think it's a pity for the country and it has nothing to do with democracy. I'm asking you one more time if you change your mind. If you know that you will end up making decisions, then you have no reason to oppose this law today and do not allow it to go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Did you recognize yourself in your colleague's words earlier? Okay. Dr. Jelusic, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. It is a claim that the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution or tomorrow's debate are not directly related. What? Once we have amended Article 90 of the Constitution, it will be imperative to amend the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u58	Colleague Jelusic, you're right that these two marriages are interlinked. But the changes we are proposing have nothing to do with the amendment to Article 90. These changes that we propose can be adopted today, tomorrow, one year from now, two years from now, whenever they have no connection. However, it is clear when article 90 of the Constitution changes and this law will have to be adapted to those changes. That's right. But if we are precise and clear, you probably also agree that what we are proposing has nothing to do with the specific changes in Article 90.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor, Mr Jože Tanko is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u61	I'm sorry. Yes, Mr Michael Prevc, you have the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u62	Once again, hello. If I continued where my colleague Tonin had finished, then I am also joining his opinion that it is difficult to say when it is the right time to make changes such as the Referendum Act and the People's Initiative. However, I am sure, and we all know this, that we will not accept these changes today, that we are actually opening a procedure today, that some kind of start that Members would give them today a green light, that this process continues to be discussed in order to regulate these procedures to start collecting signatures for the referendum, to regulate better than is regulated in the current law. I am afraid, given the debate and the views of individuals and of individual parliamentary groups, that this law will not today be given a green light for the follow-up process, which, however, seems to me to be damaging. I believe that we will surely meet again with the amendment of this law, at least I hope. At least I hope that tomorrow the matter of changing the constitution will somehow begin to receive two-thirds of the support for this story. But as my colleague Tonin has already said, I think it is right that these changes, which are more technical in nature, are about to begin discussions at this moment. Today, the whole story is about two changes. One is to increase this entry threshold for the opening of the referendum to 5,000 signatures, and what is more important is that these signatures are also certified. I have already made it very clear in the position of the Group of Members that we are not burdened with the number 5,000 at the final stage. This number is in the final stage in terms of finding some compromise between the parliamentary groups and can also be higher and may be lower. Last but not least it can be 2 000 500, as defined now, not least it can be 2 000, as mentioned earlier by colleague Möderndorfer. But it is important for us in the Slovenian People's Party that these signatures are certified. This is, in fact, for us, and for me too, the personal essence of changing this law. This is said to be a mere change of technical nature, which, in fact, we have all come to realize today, does not in any way limit the right of citizens to a referendum, but regulates that "pre-referendum procedure" which has proved to be inappropriate in practice so far. We know that we had a number of problems not so long ago when there were numerous indications of the authenticity of signatures and so on. But with certified signatures, there wouldn't be any of those readings. On the common charter, the fields would be clearly signed by the proposer, with the name and surname, a clear date and this candidate, who would sign here, would also make it clear that he is clearly aware of the purpose or content of the referendum initiative. That is why I would like us to give the green light to the continuation of this procedure today. I do not think it is wrong if this process of amending this legislation is in parallel with the constitutional changes, with the amendments to Article 90, which we will address tomorrow. I suggest that you consider, however, whether we will give the green light to this law tomorrow in the vote, or whether we will provide the necessary two-thirds majority. I think it would be good if we did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Respected and respected! I have already discussed the issue of the number of signatures in this National Assembly today, but I would like to reiterate my position now. I believe that restricting voters to submit a proposal for a high number of signatures referendum and requiring the approval of these signatures is, of course, a problem. It's about restricting or violating democracy, at a time when people on the street are talking to us and demanding more democracy. The verified signature shall, in the opinion of the Committee, be limited to tightening the conditions. I do not think I am lonely in this view that more debaters have said this today in a similar way. I also believe that the increase in the number of signatures requested, we have heard before, is a 100 per cent increase, from 2 000 500 to 5 000, as well as a tightening of the conditions for the exercise of the direct democracy of the people. But I also think there's another problem. Not in the people. The problem is within us, in this house of democracy, especially in the adoption of laws where we need to be more sensitive and not always accept everything the government proposes, or everything in the text as proposed. Above all, we need to start resisting the adoption of laws by swift procedure. We have heard a lot about this here, too, about how many laws followed the rapid procedure and how many laws followed the regular procedure. It should be the other way around. Civil society, the public and the profession should be given the opportunity to draw up their comments, their proposals in the regular procedure for the adoption of the law. These proposals and comments should be considered and taken into account, if not, within the scope of the option, to explain to the applicants what the reasons are for this. Then there will be no need for a referendum or much less for a referendum. However, the problem is also in the party-taking and conduct of individual parliamentary groups. The suspension of reforms in the previous mandate has already been mentioned today. I would not discuss this here because it is history, but I would like to answer Mr Židan in the sense that the Law on Pension Reform by DeSUS has fallen because there has been no consensus on the coordination of pensions. That's, uh, sorry about our client's problem. All that has happened is proof of how politics and MPs should not work in the National Assembly. I believe that it is necessary to respect that power has a people in our country and let us acknowledge that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I find that this is a comprehensive list of applicants. Would you like a word on behalf of the applicants as first-signed? Please, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u66	To the conclusion. Another round?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u67	Here you go. As your candidate, you have the floor. Then I'm gonna open up another way to report it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'd like to point out a few things again. We don't take the referendum to people, we give the referendum only to people, we take it into our hands, we take it to politics. We will not make any concrete decisions at this meeting today. We will only decide whether we will allow this debate to continue or not. And when I receive e-mails during the session, including Mr Ladislav Troh's email, who said that someone should pour pure wine and tell me the difference between the 5,000 signatures we need for a certain law and the 5,000 signatures that are proposed for the referendum. Of course there's a difference. But if he listened to me correctly, then he could also hear that we as the proponent of this number do not fix, that we are ready to talk about it yet, that many proposals have fallen down today, and that we need a very strong consensus for the final number. I think these are all the guards that will lead to a good deal if they do. When I listened carefully to the debate, and if you did, you could have found that many of you had acknowledged that there were tactical blockades, and Mrs Klasincheva talked about it, and that this proposal would have prevented these tactical blockades. You've all been alerting yourself to the inconvenience of losing signatures, counting, reading, and all these things. That is why I do not see any rational reason for this debate to end today. Because then, once again, it will be a problem to start it, whether it is a good time, whether the parties are ready to talk at informal meetings. Thus, we have a fine basis for continuing and reaching the final goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Once again, I find that all of you who have applied for this debate have also received the floor. However, I note that the time set for the debate has not yet expired. I also note that there is still a desire to discuss, and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am reopening the application for discussion. Please sign up. Mr. Roman Jakič, you have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I'm not going to support this marriage and I'm going to tell you why. Because, in fact, citizens and citizens are not responsible for the inability to communicate with civil society and the opposition, because citizens and citizens are also not guilty of ignoring the proposals of civil society and opposition, because the wrong policy of the ruling coalition is not the fault of citizens and citizens. It is them, citizens and citizens who are being punished by this law. Why? Because, in fact, for the inability to communicate, to ignore proposals and wrong policies, those who do not want to admit it always hide themselves, or those who think that this is the right attitude towards the state and citizens. But it really isn't. I'm hearing from the SDS today about signing on buses, coal mines and so on. I have to say that I'm angry, and I'm gonna calm down a little bit, I count to three, but in fact, you have citizens and citizens for idiots and assholes who don't know why they're signing and where they're signing. This is an extremely under-appreciating attitude towards citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to justify your argument by justifying that this is one way or another without connection, this signature, you run by and sign there. In the professional capacity of your own citizens and citizens, you do not trust or believe that people who come to the stand to sign for a civil initiative, that people with common sense have come there because they do not agree with any policy in this country. We underestimate them, really underestimate them, or have a lofty view of them, and in fact politics should be humble to its citizens and citizens in this country. Alone with colleagues and colleagues from Positive Slovenia, I have always advocated a solution that parliamentary parties or politicians, Members, should not have the opportunity to call for a referendum. And I will defend that tomorrow in constitutional changes. In almost two thirds of the referendum cases, politics was created because it wanted to deal politically with its political opponents. That's what my fellow Jew has been talking about. Every time you raise your voice against the voice of your citizens and citizens, read article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: "Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination..." By the way, this country has also made a referendum and these citizens and citizens who have decided to hold a referendum for this country. And the second paragraph, which says that "in Slovenia, the people, citizens and citizens exercise it directly" – let us think a little bit about what the Constitution has written down, that citizens and citizens execute directly and through elections, of course, on the principle of the division of power into judicial, legislative, executive. And because of these arguments that I have told you, and because of the protest against the under-appreciating attitude towards my own citizens and citizens, of course it does not occur to me to support this law in order to go to a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before I give my word forward, allow me one correction. Because it is often used in today's debate, that is, when you thank me for your word, some of you have called me "Mr President". I inform you if anyone does not know that I am one of the three vice-presidents of the National Assembly and that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am replacing the President, which we do not currently have in the National Assembly. Just so much for the record, it wouldn't be any kind of misinterpretation. Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. I took the floor again mainly because I would point out once again that we are not deciding on the content of the law. Today we decide to continue the procedure that introduces some orderliness and some greater transparency of the procedure for beginning the collection of signatures for the referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, it seems a shame not to gather so much, I will say, good will in the future and yet reach some agreement, some compromise, as far as these amendments proposed by this law are concerned. I really got it today when I listened to the debate, the feeling that tomorrow will be very difficult to get this two-thirds majority, but I have a feeling that we are not so on different shores. I also made it clear that we can compromise very quickly in the Slovenian People's Party as regards the number of signatures to start the referendum procedure. Whether it's 5,000, whether it's more or less, that's not the most important thing for us. Once again, it is most important for us that these signatures are certified, because only in this way will we be able to say that the procedure for starting the collection of signatures is good and transparent. Look, nobody in this room told me today that this procedure is good, that it's okay. We have all somehow found that it needs to be changed to some extent, that it needs to be repaired to some extent. I may have forgotten about one piece of information earlier, but I would mention it now because it is interesting, especially as regards the questions as to how it is possible or how difficult it will be for the initiator to collect 5,000 signatures within eight days. We know that Aleš Primc, with his initiative in two days, collected almost 25 thousand certified signatures, by the way. But as I said, in the Slovenian People's Party we absolutely don't insist on numbers. It would be a shame if today's procedures for discussion were to end for some better solutions. Once again, I appeal to Members mainly from the opposition that we are not really so divided, we are not so on different shores that we do not find in the second and third reading of the law some common starting points and some common points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I could now discuss it in such a way that I would be very pleased with those who may be sitting and watching our session today, but I want to be more concrete, simple and simple. I am in favour of this, and also our Group of Members, to continue with this procedure. I think that in the past we have discussed this problem on various bodies and have seen that there is indeed a problem that needs to be addressed in an appropriate way. It is true that people, our citizens and our citizens have power. But it is also true that they have given their vote to those who are represented in the relevant bodies. And people simply and simply want us to decide who gets this mandate. How do they prove it? Even so, they come in very small numbers to the referendum. We cannot and do not want to end the referendum. The referendum is an institute where people can make decisions. But not to be demanded by the representatives of the people, whether it be Members, Members of the National Assembly or saints or saints in the State Council. Key topics on the decision should be such. I remember years ago when we had a referendum on one of the thermal power plants, if I'm not mistaken. At the time, as a simple and ordinary citizen, I said, "Why do they ask me that? Why?" I did not get the right answer from myself, I was looking for these answers from others, I came to realize that this is not such an important topic that I should go to the referendum and decide on it, so I did not attend this referendum at the time. Now around the number of signatures. It is crucial for me to have the signature of the signatory authenticated on the administrative unit. You know, I recently went my way, if I may say so, the city, the place I live in, and I was stopped by a person on the street who showed me not to talk. She asked me to sign for some power plant and showed me a list where people were already signed. From that introduction, I couldn't understand that it was a thermal power plant or any power plant, and I showed the person with my finger that I wouldn't sign it because I didn't really know why the signature offered it to me. If we verify the signatures or verify them in administrative units, that means we will do what we intend to do and what we have decided to do. You know, there's a lot of talk going on in the streets, and even those who collect signatures don't know why they collect them. That's why I think this is the right decision. And we will support this decision, and I will personally support it. I want the debate to continue and we are trying to find the points of reference and resolve this issue once in a referendum in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, tomorrow, 1 February, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to public finances and supplements. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members, with Mr Matjaz Han, first signed. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jank Webro, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. A further explanation of the bill will be provided by Mr Matjaž Han, representative of the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have yet another amendment to the Public Finance Balance Act, so-called ZUJF, tabled by the Social Democrats together with Positive Slovenia. Unfortunately, the fact that the ZUJF Super Saving Act is increasingly showing itself as a super-unbalanced law in which individuals and individual groups have been deprived of their rights in a disproportionate way. At the same time, we cannot help but feel that the Public Finance Balance Act is not only about finance, but also about ideology or the ideological fight in some cases. The Social Democrats, together with the Members of Positive Slovenia, have repeatedly tabled a bill of law on the rights of certain groups of pensioners. I'm talking about Article 143. Today, however, we want to alleviate and draw attention to the injustice that has occurred to war veterans through the adoption of a savings law. They are not just veterans of war for Slovenia, they are also fighters of NOB, and so on, about war veterans, Article 2, who are all these groups. We are surprised, however, that some representatives of the coalition have been stressing the importance of the self-sustainment war all the time, which is true, even more so, many attribute it to themselves, as if they had made this self-sustaining war or had merit, and, on the other hand, this same coalition is preparing a law that disproportionately takes the right to additional health insurance for war veterans, which has been provided only on a selective basis since 1 January 2013. Unfortunately, "thank you" for the war veterans doesn't end here. With the implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, for the first time, the age for the exercise of rights from 50 to 55 years of age has increased, secondly, the legal basis for the exercise of the right to medical and air-conditioning treatment has been abolished and, thirdly, with 2013 the remuneration will be paid back. The package of these for my disproportionate treatments concludes the strict conditions for the exercise of healthcare rights. According to the new law, the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium provided by the State budget will remain unchanged only for persons with the status of a war invalid and for persons with the status of victims of war violence. These are disproportionate and selective interventions. So what do we want the proposers to do with this law? First of all, I would like to point out that the Social Democrats are still aware that there is a need in the light of the financial situation – including austerity measures that will relieve public finances of increasing pressure. However, these should be all the more thoughtful and proportionate in particular among the group of war veterans, the fighters who have pledged their lives without assurance that today we are sitting in this Parliament, that we have our own Slovenian flag and that we have our own country. With the novel, we do not want to give the impression on the wings of statesmen or political words that war veterans must be exempt from austerity measures and be privileged, but they do not want to do so themselves, but we believe that serious consideration is needed, how and how to mitigate these disproportionate cuts. With the amendment to Article 101 of the ZUJF in conjunction with two more articles, we only want to prevent the permanent deprivation of rights to war veterans, I repeat, the permanent forfeiture of the right to payment of supplementary health insurance. We are determining the period during which this right will be established, now the word is frozen popular, frozen or will not be enjoyed from the adoption of this law until the economic growth in Slovenia exceeds 2.5% of the social gross product. In addition to war veterans receiving a protective allowance or meeting the conditions for obtaining a veteran supplement, the right to supplementary health insurance will also be guaranteed to the injured, about 101 of them, and to the dependent family members who have fallen into the war for Slovenia, widows, children and parents, about 54 beneficiaries. It must be said that these two groups of beneficiaries in the war are also the most personally affected. Let me finish. Dear colleagues and colleagues, veteran fighters were needed when they conquered us, so today we must not take away their dignity. That is why I propose, because there is no financial implications for the budget, that we leave this law to a follow-up procedure and then adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The government's opinion will be mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u78	Dear Members and Members, honourable Presidents, welcome! Proposal for a new Law on the Balancing of Public Finances has a substantive impact on two sets. The first set introduces a new term, extending the categories of beneficiaries of healthcare to war veterans wounded in the war for Slovenia, who therefore have a permanent health disability. In doing so, the proposer will overlook that these rights have already been regulated in the protection of disabled warlords and the protection of family members under the War Disability Act. The War Disability Act determines who is disabled. The War of Disabled Persons is a person who, as a direct consequence of these circumstances without his guilt, has suffered at least a 20 per cent health impairment due to injury or disease or deterioration of a disease which he had before or for which it cannot be established that it was caused by these circumstances, but it can be concluded that the war situation had a significant impact on the fact that it had occurred. This is already regulated and also an arrangement for family members. As far as this first point is concerned, war veterans under the War Veterans Act, who were injured in the war for Slovenia and were granted a permanent health impairment, assessed by the examination and opinion of the competent medical commission, are covered by at least 20% and are not affected by the ZUJF. It is then difficult to understand such a proposal, so we consider it unnecessary or even more, as an intervention into a system that is regulated and in which the ZUJF has not intervened at all. That's probably what the proponent missed. The second thing that was also the most important talk when you presented your position was to intervene in the right to additional health insurance for war veterans, which you did not stress if the income for a family member in a family of war veterans exceeds EUR 500. It then interferes with the right to additional health insurance only for war veterans whose income per family member exceeds EUR 500. To sum up, if a family, a father, a mother, a child, has about a thousand 500 euros in net income and more, then such a war veteran is no longer granted an additional health insurance payment of close to 30 euros per month. However, if the income of a family member falls below that limit, it is recognised, which means that the socially weak families from which war veterans come are also later granted the right to additional health insurance. The abolition of this right is not absolute, is selective and is linked to a relatively high censorship. It is also true that we interfere in the years since this right is granted after 55 years, not after 50 years as before. This is also due to the fact that additional health insurance rights also occur more or less after 55 years in the light of trends in ageing societies. These two measures have been adopted in the Public Finance Balance Act and are proportionate to the full range of other measures under the NUJF. Let me remind you that in the Law on Public Finance Balance, we have intervened in a number of rights, including in family policy, that we have actually had a gruesome job here, which none of us are proud of, but we have done because we are aware that the aim of balancing public finances is an important goal, which also affects the long-term recovery of these relations and those rights. The reintroduction of this right would have certain lasting financial implications. I must also remind you of what you have said and held, the proposaler, that this moment does not mean an intervention in public finances and the budget, but in stock, but we need to know that we must also permanently reduce the consumption of this country. And that's one of those measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Jana Jenko, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I also very much welcome Minister Viszak. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a new Law on Public Finance Balance is not appropriate for further consideration. In view of the fact that DeSUS did not support previous proposals for amendments to the ZUJF, namely those relating to the return of so-called exceptional pensions, it was expected that we would not support these changes concerning veterans of war this time. Despite the excellent contribution made by veterans to freedom and independence of Slovenia by the veterans, which we deeply respect in our Group of Members, we believe that the current ZUJF has been fairly unfair in its right to rights financed by the State budget, which has acted selectively and in terms of the social situation of the beneficiaries. So ZUJF also intervened in the rights of war veterans by not taking on those who are economically disadvantaged. According to the DeSUS Group's assessment, I do not see the need for the ZUJF to correct this work, since in the light of the entire so-called savings law, this category has not been treated in any way or in any way worse than the other categories which have been deprived of the rights or benefits conferred on them by the budget, taking into account their economic and social status. For example, the children's allowance was taken away from those families who fall into the seventh and eighth classes under the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds, which means that those families where the average monthly income per family member exceeds EUR 627 were left without this supplement. Pensions have also been reduced for those pensioners who receive an exceptional pension if they have exceeded EUR 622. The annual pension allowance was also saved in such a way that it was saved only for those who did not exceed the pension of EUR 622. After this concept, payment of supplementary health insurance to war veterans was also considered. According to Zujf’s regulation, payments to supplementary health insurance are paid only to war veterans who are over 55 years of age and are entitled to a veteran supplement, which means a social adjustment, as it is necessary to meet the material price below EUR 497.15 per family member. So only those war veterans with higher incomes were paid additional health insurance from the budget abolished and not all of them, as this is gladly told in the public. It is right to maintain the existing concept of savings if we are to assume that the purpose of the austerity law was not to affect those who are in a poor material situation in terms of deprivation of rights and only those who are not materially affected by them in order to become socially disadvantaged. In our view, this is the most fair in the light of the selective choice given the recipient's material position and we believe that it is not good to intervene. In addition to refusing to pay supplementary health insurance to all war veterans, the proposed Act extends the right to supplementary health insurance to some other beneficiaries. In this regard, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that, given that the ZUJF is a savings law, it is not possible to extend any rights with it. When the time is right, we strongly believe that everything that has been taken from the ZUJF will also be restored, and all possibilities for the dissemination or distribution of new rights will be opened up. As has already been said in the introduction, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that there is no need for further consideration of this law at this time, and even less so in these times of crisis, this law is suitable for support. In the DeSUS Group, however, we believe that we all want to avoid saving after the ZUJF. However, the exemption of some groups from savings, which last but not least means around €15 million of additional budget resources, would not be in place, as we all know they are nowhere to be taken. And there are too many poor and hungry people in our country to pay health insurance to some without taking care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Public Finance Balance Act was adopted as a necessary measure to reduce the public financial deficit. He did intervene in a number of laws, apparently in 39. But he reached out to Austria in 92. And the Austrian one weighs 28 billion. It's true, for a five-year period. It has reached into a number of laws with a view to reducing budgetary expenditure and increasing budgetary revenue as far as possible fairly and evenly distributed. Among other things, he intervened in the provisions of the War Veterans Act. This law regulates the rights of war veterans as a recognition of their merits during the war, including in the processes of independence of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus expresses appropriate recognition and debt. The applicable war veterans law defines the rights of war veterans in Article 5. These rights are as follows: veteran allowance, allowance for assistance and service, annual allowance, healthcare, free driving, funeral and pension recognition. The Public Finance Balance Act has abolished the rights of war veterans to medical and climate treatment, has also infringed on the right to health care or, more specifically, the right to payment of additional health insurance, to which all war veterans who have reached the age of 50 have been entitled. The Public Finance Balance Act has increased the age limit for war veterans to exercise the rights set out in this Title from 50 to 55 years, only those veterans who receive a veteran supplement are entitled to this right. The bill we are considering also brings some new beneficiaries to the payment of health care, which has not been regulated by the applicable war veterans law so far. Family members who have fallen into the war for Slovenia, including the widow or extramarital partner, the children and the parents of the fallen, the latter, provided that the fallen have survived, are entitled to payment of additional health insurance according to this law. All war veterans who were injured in the war for Slovenia, regardless of age and entitlement to a veteran supplement, also receive the right to payment of additional health insurance. These are therefore two new categories of beneficiaries. In addition, following the proposal of this Act, a temporary measure has been laid down with regard to the deprivation of health insurance rights until the growth of gross domestic product exceeds 2.5 % in the previous year. In New Slovenia, we believe that the rights of war veterans are not only material but also a strong symbolic meaning because of the independent merits. We offer sincere and all recognition to war veterans for their thanks at the time of Slovenia's independence. We advocate that their material status is properly regulated. The current war veterans law also maintains an appropriate level of material security for all persons with recognised status as war veterans after the entry into force of the ZUJF. A veteran supplement is eligible for all persons with the status of a war veteran who do not have the income per family member for a period of approximately EUR 500 per month. After reaching the age of 55, such a war veteran with a recognised veteran supplement also has the right to payment of additional health insurance. These rights, which have a significant impact on the material status of war veterans, have also remained intact following the implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act. The Public Finance Balance Act abolished the universal right to payment of additional health insurance for all persons with recognised status as a war veteran after the age of 50. In this way, public financial expenditure for the payment of additional health insurance decreased by around EUR 12 million per year. The Public Finance Balance Act has reduced rights in the area of a number of laws with a view to reducing budgetary expenditure and increasing budgetary revenue. The new rights or new beneficiaries introduced by that proposal of the law, of course, also mean new budgetary expenditure. The increase in budgetary expenditure in such a tight financial situation as we have in Slovenia cannot be accepted, I am sorry. For this reason, Members of the New Slovenia Group are unable to support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Article 101 of the Law on Public Finance Balance. I'm a war veteran myself, and on the night I was mobilized, I didn't think I'd ever have any material effects. That's when it was about the state. I left home a family with three little kids. And I'm glad we even defended this country. It's my country today, too. And when there are better times, then I will try to fix the family policy first, and then, of course, we won't forget war veterans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear predecessor, this law binds us to better times, not to times of crisis, for better times, which is another reason to support it, at least at first reading, and allow it to continue its debate and possible corrections in accordance with what the Minister said in the introduction. And also a colleague from Dessus, I feel like she's constantly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u85	I would ask you to state the position of the Group of Members and not to dispute the views of the other groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the position of the Group of Members, I will also try to explain to those who do not understand whether they do not have information, whether they have distorted information, why it is appropriate to support this law. I will be bound by the fact that the predecessor, a respected colleague from DeSUS, who justified her failure to support the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act by taking into account the state's economic and social status in the basic ZUJF, because of the fact that the rights of other pensioners were being reduced, it is only right that the rights of war veterans have also been reduced and, at the end of the day, a colleague from DeSUS said that the time was not right to support this law. Allow me, indeed, to explain in a somewhat broader introduction the basic purpose of our law, its contents and also the circumstances in which this content was created, and to refute the theories of those who today oppose the law because of the crisis. The basic ZUJF was, even today, adopted to reduce the country's public financial deficit, which means that it is supposed to be a so-called temporary measure. This is also reflected in the basic proposal of that government law. And this basic government proposal for the Public Finance Balance Act, adopted last May, has actually tied these provisional measures to GDP growth by 2.5%. We've heard that before today. In this case, in the case of war veterans, the solution is not temporary, but the solution is permanent. These people are the only material rights they take permanently. And those who have thought or will think that this is a social correction, a social component, is not true, this is a recognition of the state to those people who have also sacrificed their lives if you want to, to defend and defend our homeland during World War II and during the period of the Slovenian self-sustaining war. That's what this is about! Decisions of the Law on the Balance of Public Finances are selective and do not, as has already been said, follow the basic purpose or objectives of the ZUJF. This happened in pensions, 26 thousand of those pensioners who were selectively erased in some way, I apologize for using that term. And in a specific case, this happens in war veterans. And I'll explain in more detail why. During the month of September last year, veterans of the war on Slovenia asked us to co-form a bill that will address the negative consequences of the ZUJF in the work relating to their rights granted under the War Veterans Act. The State has also disproportionately intervened in the rights of war veterans through the implementation of the ZUJF. The legal basis for the exercise of the right to medical and climate treatment has been abolished, from 50 to 55 years of age, the age for the exercise of rights under the War Veterans Act has risen from 1 this year. 1. However, 2013 will be paid in the monthly amount of the first working day of the month following the war legislation. The conditions for the exercise of the right to health care have also increased for war veterans. And here we come to the point where some of you justify this last measure by making it a social correction linked to censorship. It's not right. By withdrawing these rights, the War Veterans Act loses its purpose. This has in fact become most obvious by abolishing the only substantive right: payment of the supplementary health insurance premium. This right was acquired by all veterans on the basis of the War Veterans Act on the basis of legal age. The right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium provided by the State budget will remain unchanged only for persons with the status of a war invalid, which the Minister has already talked about today, and for persons with the status of a victim of war violence. And this is where we get the selectivity. The right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium from 1 January of this year is granted only selectively to war veterans. Two conditions must be met, the age condition 55 years and the condition for obtaining a veteran supplement. And that's censorship. Here we come up with some changed logic to make the only material right for war veterans to become social corrections, linked to censorship. Although basically this right cannot and must not be a social correction, a respected colleague and colleague! The difference, and now I'm going to use an expression that's not in my heart, the difference between a right that's awarded as compensation for physical and mental injury and a sign of gratitude, is not charity, but gratitude. Finally, the second point of the third recommendation of the Fourth World Veteran Federation Legislative Conference makes it very clear that the receipts of war veterans and war victims should not be of a social nature, but should represent, I quote, "compensation for physical and mental injury and a sign of gratitude and not payment". Dignity intervention is often heard of the importance of human dignity. Today we have landed or landed since the adoption of the basic ZUJF, to eliminate the importance of NOB and Slovenia's self-sustaining war. The category of war veterans is composed of NOB fighters and members of the defence and security forces who participated in the self-sustainment processes or in the war for Slovenia in 1991. You know, the rights granted under the War Veterans Act mean recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for the contribution that war veterans have made, people have given for freedom and for independent Slovenia. The government has bypassed the recommendations of the World Veteran Federation, which speak of the government's obligations to ensure that the equal rights of war veterans and war victims are properly maintained and, above all, to ensure the regular correction or coordination of the revenues of those people by increasing the cost of living in the country. Instead of regulating the legal protection and rights of war veterans and victims of war in a more qualitative manner, taking into account the experience of other countries, members of the World Veteran Federation, and the recommendations adopted by this federation, the government has made a drastic effort with ZUJF to address the rights acquired, as well as many war veterans and war victims, as well as to reduce pensions and other benefits. In doing so, some groups have exempted from the negative harmonisation and reduction of pensions and other rights measure. For example, forced conscripts were exempted into the German army, refugees, exiles, labor deportees and other victims of war violence. This is where we come back to selectivity. If I go back to the ZUJF now and there's not many excuses heard that saving was necessary. In the basic ZUJF, the government predicted that, with this measure, which we are correcting today, it would save 14.5 million euros in 2013. And I'm going to say again to all those who say, "Yes, at the time of the crisis, it's a high amount, and if families had to contribute, it's a good thing that everyone contributes in a proportional proportion." All right. But I'm going to dismiss your theory and claim with an argument. As the crisis is, the veterans in the interview have also agreed very clearly and said that this is their share in solving the crisis in our country, that the right that has been permanently withdrawn is returned in this law as a temporary measure during the crisis. If the law is supported today in the first reading and will, by chance, be supported in the National Assembly also in further proceedings and in the third reading at the plenary session, the law will not enter into force or the right to these people, the substantive right will not be granted on the date of the adoption of the law, but will only be granted when our country comes out of the crisis. And that's the compromise solution that war veterans are landing on. It's like they're asking for mercy to have the country give them back the recognition that they've been denied by the U.S.U.F. because of the crisis. The basic objectives of the bill are to maintain the right to additional health insurance for all beneficiaries, war veterans who, as has already been said, have been recognised for the implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, to continue to retain the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for the category injured in the war for Slovenia and to ensure the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for dependent family members who have fallen into the war for Slovenia. And once again, after the growth of GDP in our country has reached 2.5%, we will therefore emerge from the crisis. In fact, we are only pursuing temporary measures that have already been taken in the basic proposal of the Public Finance Balance Act. Yesterday we discussed the Ombudsman's report for 2011. In this report, the Ombudsman raised a hypothetical question, at least that is how I understood it: Can we still talk about the rule of law or is Slovenia even a rule of law? I will refer hereafter to the opinion of the Administrative Court which received a complaint on the measure as a consequence of the ZUJF when the beneficiary, a war veteran, was deprived of the right to supplementary health insurance. Allow me only in my work to quote the explanation of the Administrative Court, which dropped this action and submitted an application to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of this measure. Similarly, we can draw parallels with 26,000 pensioners who have also been deprived of their right to return. I now quote the ruling of the Administrative Court: "If these persons have already been granted the right to payment of health services..." and so on "... this right can no longer be withdrawn from them, because this would be contrary to Article 155 of the Constitution. The Court therefore fully agrees with the judgment that the legislator may be in a position to change a certain regime in the future, but in no case can this constitutionally permissible reason be to intervene in an existing legal relationship, in a particular case in the rights of war veterans to whom they have been recognised by legislative decisions, since in this case they would be in breach of Article 155 of the Constitution." And then they go on and they say, "As stated in the following comment, there is no way to interfere with the rights acquired." And here they quoted a comment from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, whose editor was Dr. Lovro Šturm. This book or comment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was published in 2010. For these reasons, the Constitutional Court, where the pensioners are still awaiting an assessment, has been questioned by those who have also been inadmissible — so I, and apparently the Administrative Court, also stands in this position — an unjustifiably deprived of the right to a pension which has already been fixed and recognised by a legislative decision. In Positive Slovenia, we insist that no crisis should be a reason to evaluate the importance of the contribution of people, especially veterans, to a single country. In view of the very clear time component of the law, which also takes account of the crisis, I say once again, also takes into account the crisis, we are convinced that those who may have basically had a different view or position on the law itself will allow the law to be corrected in accordance with what the Minister has pointed out as a possible weakness of the law. If I have understood correctly, in the last indent, where we state the objectives of the law, and that this will actually show in a single vote to our people that the defence of the country is an extremely important value. On purpose for this opportunity from the newspaper I also saved a statement by Defence Minister Hojs, a minister coming from New Slovenia. I'll say it's not the happiest statement, though. On one occasion on 12 October 2012, the minister said: "Safety is more important than being satisfied. If you're dead, you don't even have to eat." I say that it is not the most successful statement, but also the representatives of New Slovenia when deciding whether to support the law or not. The bill follows the principle of constitutionality and legality. I believe I made this very clear. It follows the principle of protection of acquired rights, the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. And one more thing. The law is based on solidarity. And that's why it reflects pride and dignity. I believe, Minister Visjak, that only one indent in this law, only one substantive indent is not the reason that the law at first reading would not be supported. We all know that in the next procedural procedure, the law can be rectified and also addressed the shortcomings that may be found in the draft bill. On the other hand, I fear that the Minister has made the path very clear in the introduction today when he said that a sustained decline in the consumption of the country will also be necessary after Slovenia has sailed out of the crisis. A sustained decline in the country's consumption means a permanent decline in rights. And in Positive Slovenia, we are very clear that this is not the right way. We will be absolutely supportive of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Romana Tomc, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I will also try to demonstrate as objectively as possible the situation in which we today have come up with this bill. We have already explained a lot about this in recent months that the ZUJF has been adopted solely with a view to consolidating the public financial situation, not on the basis of any other hidden movements, but not with a view to affecting certain specific groups more than some others. On the contrary. The government has tried to distribute the burdens of ZUJF as much as possible, to distribute fairly and completely exempt those with the lowest income from the measures. Of course, it is logical that the resistance and dissatisfaction of all those personally affected by these measures is great, no matter how high this measure has actually been realized on them. It's all human, and it's understandable. Veterans are also among the groups where conditions have deteriorated in the previous year. Not just veterans. Besides them, the effects of the ZUJF were felt by the disabled, including the victims of war violence. The proposal that we have before us today seeks to restore old rights, not just that, but in some places it also tries to extend these rights. Unfortunately, the economic situation is not like this and it is unlikely that it will be possible for some time. This is also recognised by the proposaler, who is bound by the application of rights to economic growth. Nevertheless, we cannot support the proposal in the SDS Group of Members, and I will continue to try to explain in a reasoned manner why. First, let us see what war veterans are entitled to to get a picture of what we are actually talking about. Veterans are entitled, under the War Veterans Act, to a veteran supplement, to an allowance for aid and service, to an annual allowance, to health care, to free travel, to a funeral and also to the recognition of retirement age. So the truth is, we have to admit, but it's not that small. And it is also true that this special group of people in our history has played an outstanding role in the creation of our country, so they need to be given the right place, the right recognition and the right monetary compensation. What did ZUJF bring to this area? ZUJF brought the following changes. He abolished the right to medical and climate treatment of war invalids, war veterans and victims of war violence. He increased the age for the enforcement of rights under the War veterans Act from 50 to 55 years of age. And we must note that the right to the protection of a war veteran has remained unchanged in the event of a permanent permanent total loss of working ability. Nothing's changed here. The circle of healthcare beneficiaries has been limited. According to the new law, veterans who receive a veteran supplement are entitled to this right for at least 55 years. For persons with the status of a war invalid and persons with the status of a victim of war violence, conditions have not changed at all. The rest are also unchanged after the implementation of the ZUJF. And last but not least, the ZUJF has determined that monetary benefits are not paid in advance for the current month, such as invalidity allowances, life benefits, and similar payments for the current month, but are paid for the past month, as is usually the case with all other monetary benefits. What are the proposals of the proposer? The proposed amendment to the law considers that the implementation of the NUJF has caused disproportionate interference with the acquired rights of war veterans and, in particular, is hampered by the finding of payment of the supplementary health insurance premium. Therefore, the proposals are as follows: to extend these rights to persons who were injured in the 1991 war for Slovenia and therefore have permanent health problems; to extend the range of family members entitled to reimbursement; to extend the right to pay health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services provided under compulsory insurance to family members who have fallen into the 1991 war; and to propose that this measure is no longer permanent but temporary in nature. Why these reasons are not reasoned, I will not repeat myself in a work where the Minister has already explained that there is also a lack of understanding of the already regulated issues in other laws. I guess the motioners weren't paying enough attention. In the end, however, I would like to draw attention to the financial consequences. These financial consequences of the re-implementation or extension of rights are very high and will only increase over the years. And even the proposer himself admits that it goes on an annual level for about 18 million euros a year. Let me give you one more piece of information that has not yet been mentioned today, and it is very important. Over the past year, only the increase in the insurance premium has resulted in additional burdens for the period July to December for EUR 300,000. Thus, an additional EUR 600,000 per year is paid by the State for the price or increase of the insurance premium, which has no effect whatsoever. Even after the entry into force of the ZUJF, almost 40,000 people are still entitled to health care under the law of the war. The Act of Personal Rights of the Victims of the War on Slovenia still gives war invalids the right to a life pension, and the rights of the dependent members of the war on Slovenia are still adequately protected. I must stress this in particular because we have already heard today that this is not the case. Wrong. Certain rights arising from other legislation still exist and in which the ZUJF has not completely infringed. For all these reasons and because we believe that the ZUJF in this area has not acted disproportionately on the rights of beneficiaries under war laws, we will not support this bill in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! There are times when people have to do something for the country, and there are times when the country has to take care of its people. If we talk about war veterans, we can find out that these people have given and highlighted the most they have, including their lives, for the country. That is why today, war veterans have special protection under the Constitution. However, legal rights are defined in the applicable War Veterans Act, which lays down 8 rights. The Public Finance Balance Act, adopted last year, intervened in several areas in the rights of war veterans, including the right to health care and the right to medical and climate treatment. We have assessed that, as in the case of pensions granted under specific conditions, the Government has reduced them disproportionately in Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act, even in the case of war veterans. That is why we have prepared a new law to at least mitigate the consequences of the savings law for war veterans. The rights granted under the War Veterans Act are not privileges that would be given to war veterans just like that. These are rights granted to war veterans because they risked their lives for the freedom and independence of our country, whether they were national liberation fighters or fighters who participated in the liberation processes or the war for Slovenia in 1991. By means of austerity measures, the Government has restricted the rights of war veterans to the extent that they represent only social corrections. In addition, according to the other beneficiaries of war laws, the Government has, without justification, discriminated against the right to health care of war veterans and the right to payment of supplementary health insurance. The right to supplementary health insurance shall be ensured from 1 January 2013 only when the age requirement is met, this being an additional 55 years, and the conditions for obtaining a veteran supplement. This means that the remuneration per family member cannot be reached on the basis of the Veteran Supplement, which amounted to around €497 for 2012. The aim of the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, proposed, is to preserve the right to additional health insurance for all war veterans, not just for the socially disadvantaged. With the amendment of the law, the right to payment of supplementary health insurance in addition to war veterans will also be guaranteed to wounded and dependent family members who have fallen into the war for Slovenia. In view of the unfavourable public financial situation in the new austerity law, we also set out a period during which the exercise of this right for veterans of war is suspended until economic growth exceeds 2.5% of the gross domestic product. With the adoption of the amendment to the Public Finance Balance Act, we will therefore allow the right of war veterans to health care to be fully recovered after the economic crisis has expired and some groups to be reallocated. In view of the temporary freezing of rights envisaged by the amendment of the savings law, the financial consequences of amending the law by the end of the crisis will be negligible. That is why we hope that the Social Democrats, regardless of what we have already heard from some of the parliamentary groups, will nevertheless support the amendment of the law in a large number. Saving in vulnerable groups, such as pensioners and many war veterans, is not the right way to address both the financial and moral crises in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u92	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Since last May, when we have adopted the Law on Public Finance Balance, the regular meeting of the National Assembly is almost to be held so that we do not consider amending and supplementing this law. This is proof that this is a remarkable law, remarkable both by its weight and by the content and measures it has taken. The adoption of the law is a reflection of the exceptional circumstances in which our country and its public finances are located. Indirectly or directly, the law has harmed every citizen of our country. The measures have also addressed areas that are particularly sensitive for citizens, i.e. education, health, social. And it's true. We have reached out to some of the rights already acquired, bearing in mind that these measures are balanced, for the most part temporary, fair and without prejudice to the rights of those citizens with low incomes. Once again, I should like to point out that these measures are necessary and that without them the balance of public finances cannot be achieved and that measures have been taken as a result of social dialogue. We have supported and supported the ZUJF in the Civil Gazette, because we believe that measures are important for Slovenia and for our future. We are aware that only healthy economic growth can form the basis for general prosperity and therefore it is essential to strike a balance between the social state and a more competitive market economy. The proposal for amendments and additions that we are considering today bring about changes for only one group of beneficiaries, i.e. war veterans, and, on its basis, extends the health services paid by the budget. In the Citizens' List, we agree with the proposaler that the State must show gratitude and respect for those who have contributed to freedom and independence of Slovenia, so the State has granted these persons a special status, which brings a kind of gratitude or payment for this contribution, for example in the form of a veteran supplement, an aid allowance and the service of the annual allowance, recognition of the pension age and so on. In the Civil Gazette, we advocate a transparent and simple health system, as well as a pension system based on contributions paid, and in the allocation of social transfers, taking into account all the income of an individual or his or her family. Unfortunately, the proposed amendments to these principles do not follow, so we cannot support the proposal in the Civil Gazette. We are convinced that the adoption of this proposal would result in additional injustices and new imbalances and reduce the austerity effect of the ZUJF adopted. In 2012, the ZUJF reduced public spending by around €800 million, while we are still using money that we do not have and as a country we are still living above our capabilities. Only failure to balance public finances and the desire to ensure transparency of all four public cash registers will in the future enable us to achieve a stronger, fairer and more efficient state and public services, including a future reduction of taxes, an increase in personal income and thus greater personal freedom.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we appear to represent the position by alphabet: Weber, Valenčič, Žveglič, aja, Žgajnar was a little earlier. One more time. The Law on the Balance of Public Finance and the countless corrections tabled by the opposition since its adoption has revealed all the problems that lie behind the perception of the social state and the legal rights. Yeah. Last June, we restricted the right to payment of the supplementary pension premium to the social situation or to the conditions for obtaining the veteran supplement. This is the part that is still in force today, and I bear in mind that the state of its war veterans will never let go — even if they are in financial distress. It is true, however, that we have cut into state spending in all areas and have made sure that we do not create new social problems and, as a result, some veterans have been left without payment of additional health insurance. In this case, we are talking about a fixed allowance which until recently has not been linked to what revenue the beneficiary is making. Sometimes when we have huge problems with maintaining a state apparatus, a social state, the amount of pensions, it's simply difficult to defend permanent rights if we don't even know how to guarantee them in the future. I wish we had 2.5% of economic growth already this year, and this would take years in a row, and I believe that we would have also found funds in the budget for all war veterans. But today we have other problems, unfortunately, much more serious, this is how to avoid a financial collapse, how to avoid European financial intervention. If you want to hear otherwise, we are not yet on the safe side of the radar, we still have to think about how we will provide money each month for public servants' salaries, how to provide 130 million from the pension budget each month, how to provide social assistance. All of this is not self-evident and financial resources for all of this do not grow on trees. Some in this Chamber do not sit in coalition coordination, and this year you did not sit together with the Minister of Finance to figure out how to get an additional million, 2, maybe 10, 20. This is the way to search for money for the budget and with the thought of who will be affected or worse, each tax and every charge will be hurt by someone. The cruel dilemma we have to face is only one who will be less affected. Respectable investors of the law! Yesterday, when I received the final accounts, I said that today it is no longer possible to do what has been done in recent years. Nothing else: "Hello Europe, give us another 2 billion. We need them to finance all the commitments we have accumulated over the past 20 years." Not anymore. Today we are faced with the fact that we will have to survive with what we have. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the idea that when we have a better time in this country, when we will be more competitive, when our economy will be more successful than it is now, that we will also talk about awards for our veterans of war. However, I think it will be a matter of the then government, of the then coalition, of the then majority in the National Assembly. You may be able to do so in just one near future so that it will not be too long. Before I tell you what we think about the appropriateness of the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party, I will tell my story. I'm an active participant in the war for Slovenia as a then territorial defence officer. But I'm not a member of any veteran association. This is because when I came to the founding assembly, first of all, those who had been verbally against independence were seated before the conquest. That's when I got up, I left, and they won't see me in veteran organizations. Therefore, in this work today, it does not seem reasonable to change the law when the truth is loving because of the political crisis that we are in, we do not even know what will happen tomorrow, just a few years from now. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the continuation of the legislative procedure will not be supported or we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. But I am sure that you will have the opportunity to do this thing as a ruling coalition soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first took the floor on behalf of the applicants, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! I have listened to all the introductory discussions and I must tell you that I will no longer report as a candidate, not at the end, because it seems important to give me one message. This law, which we have tabled by the Social Democrats with Positive Slovenia, does not matter who is written in the first place, all of the 25 people who are signed are equivalent, we have not written in order to be politically liked by the people who fought for Slovenia or during World War I, World War II or even by the war of independence, but because unfortunately some, ladies and gentlemen, we go to meetings, to celebrate and give one seal to the people who fought for this Slovenia. I personally was not a veteran of war, but I respect all the actions that these people did with their honorable acts in those days. I am interested in listening to all of you saying that there is no time for this matter to be taken up today. I have to tell you that we agree on this too, it is not the time to accept this today, today is not a good time, today's finances in the country do not allow this. And I must also tell you that all the people in the leadership of these associations agree. That is why it has also been a compromise, and when better financial times come, and I hope that soon in this Slovenia, this matter will come back to life. Why would they re-invest in some law and re-open some rights if things are well regulated now, but because of the crisis, the matter is frozen and when the economic growth is 2.5% per year, then this right will return to these war veterans. Romana, which I respect, because, as he said earlier, is principled, with the first and second species, if I believe anything Roman, is that he did it, but I must comfort him that, as I see, as this coalition in the breakup of work, today could not be one person happy, happy and happy that it is so, Prime Minister Janez Janša, because, as is now firmly established in his chair, he has not been in the last year. I see you've united, thank God you'll save this Slovenia, Roman, but I'm curious, I don't know what you're talking about at these coalition meetings, and you're thinking, but that in one year you haven't "intruded" anything other than cutting, but how to prepare a million euros into the budget, and I don't see the results of your thinking. I am pleased that you will continue to rule because it shows that you will continue to rule, that you will "collect" how to sort things out in some way in Slovenia. However, believe me, the Social Democrats will not be the opposition that will call the referendums, which will throw prey under all decisions, but we are aware of one thing that dignity does not have its price. And war veterans, fighters, are not the kind of people they can just rub around with and share them in some way on the ideological side. Why, though, did you not go into the story and perhaps to others who might not have been on the right side in 1945? But I'm not gonna talk about ideology, I'm not gonna talk to you anymore, even though there's gonna be some controversy. Our proposal was well-meaning. I, too, give up without any problems to the first one and let the government be, because I think it's more important who's first-signed than what kind of message we're going to give to people. But I am happy for this coalition to live again in all its glory and I wish you good luck because Slovenia will be more beautiful too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Magic. Andrei Visiak, and Mr Dragan Bosic is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that Mr Han, or the proposer, had well-intentioned, sincere intentions. There is no doubt about it, and I am listening from my colleagues, not least to party-like thinking about what you have taken away from us. I am trying to explain to them that we have only exercised this right to those who are socially vulnerable or where income exceeds EUR 500 per family member, and this is not enough today, let us say that 500 euros is the minimum income for a family of three. Here we go, 500 euros for a family member. But I'm reporting for a statement I have to refuse. So the claim that this government did nothing but cut this year. That's just not true. A package of reform measures, of which four documents are adopted, is one, I hope that they speak differently in the final stage. The measure, such as the budgets for this year and next year, where there is a lot of investment money linked to the use of European funds, says that it is not true that we are cutting, but we want to invest in this society and therefore we have, thank God, European funds available. There are also intensive negotiations on the future financial perspective, and I hope that we will be able to continue this investment cycle in the future financial perspective. The Holding Act wants the management of state assets to be significantly more efficient and thus an additional inflow into the budget. For we know that the dividend policy followed by effective governance of state property is a very important source of the state budget. The Bad Bank project has been designed and is well on track to make use of the new credit potential in the economy and banks and that part of it can also come to life. The effect of this was very quickly measured financially in the tides when interest rates fell on our debt. This is said to be immediate direct effects. Respectable proposer, it is not true that the government would have an unbalanced policy here, i.e. a policy of saving, cutting and not encouraging at the same time. We want and we know and realize that it is crucial to get out of this crisis to limit expenditure where it is least painful and, on the other hand, to encourage investment or to enable the economy to breathe more fully. I think we have taken quite a few steps in this direction already this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u99	It's not a replica, but on behalf of the proposaler, Mr Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u100	Although I have now eaten the word, but I will briefly replicate it to the Minister. In one case, even the opposition participated, in the pension reform, unlike the former opposition, which failed to reflect on this last year. And second thing, when you speak, Mr. Minister, I know that you know well, because you are one of the better ministers, that by establishing the holding company we will not bring the dividend into the state budget, because the property you want to transfer to the holding company will remain at the holding company. And it was clearly said that dividends will not go into the budget but will remain in holding and then the holding company will manage Slovenian assets. I don't know if we're gonna get any money in the budget from this address. But if we save some company, it's another thing, but the dividends won't go into the budget. As far as investment is concerned, unfortunately I do not see any, the balance and the budget will only show effects. So far, indicators show that there is less revenue in the budget, that we have fewer employees in this country and that the crisis is greater than it was a year ago. These are the results, but I hope they turn to the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first is Mr Dragan Bosic, preparing Dr Andrej Črnak Meglic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. If the Minister's actions were not permanently directed towards these cuts or the elimination of the only material supplements, I would accept your full explanation. However, the arguments put forward by my colleague earlier on the stage of the speech are stronger for me. The only material, it sounds very small, the only material, it's supplementary health insurance, canceling, it doesn't seem right to be permanently terminated. These men who have shown their courage in war, if you are at war, are a brave man according to my standards, now also show patience, tolerance and patience and are willing to wait for 2.5% growth and then exercise rights if they are not permanently taken away. This also shows great optimism, which is not exactly enough right now. If I want my material supplement back, I tie it to 2.5%, then I want it to happen as soon as possible. And not only is it self-inflicted, but it is also optimist-inflicted, so I believe that this amendment should be endorsed by the ZUJF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, Mr Franz Jurša is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u104	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, thank you very much. The law we have before us today wants to correct some of the imbalances introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act. You say this law has justly divided the burdens. Depends on how we view these burdens. The fact is that it has removed from certain burdens the socially weakest, but we also need to focus the view in the ZUJF from the perspective of individual target groups. And it is true, Mr. Minister has already mentioned, one of the target groups, which has been super-proportionally burdened by the ZUJF, are families with children. But look, for those rights of families with children, it is precisely defined that restrictions will cease after the growth of gross domestic product exceeds 2.5%. Why are we not following this same view in the rights of war veterans? If we are talking about war veterans, we need to know that there are many groups within them. And one of these groups is super-proportionally affected. I would like to remind you again of Article 143 of the ZUJF, which has denied the fighters the right to pensions and reduced it to EUR 350. That is to say, these veterans who have taken care of our country's acquisition, that we could actually begin to create our own identity, have been punished with the deprivation of rights, which I now claim to be unconstitutional, and that, unfortunately, this, if not done otherwise, will be proven in Strasbourg. Well, we also take from them the only material right arising from veteran status, which is the right to supplementary health insurance. You know, there are many of them who did not benefit from any other right. And you know what hurts them the most? Not this material consequence, but an attack on their human dignity. I laughed directly when I read your wonderful reasoning for the decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to assess the constitutional consequences resulting from the postponement of the enforcement of the holding company and the bank. Do you know what you quoted in there? Article 34 of the Constitution, which speaks of the constitutional right to human dignity. That's what it says. You used it in that marriage. But here, where it's a direct attack on human dignity, you don't mention it. It's an attack on human dignity. And the fact that these people are willing to wait until the economic situation in the country improves has proved that the exercise of justice is linked to growth that will exceed 2.5% of gross domestic product. That's what it means when, I hope, you're no longer in power. That's what they say. It'll burden another government. You say better times. Yeah, for God's sake, why are we creating better times? So that we can forever squander and repeat the neoliberal mantra that everyone, including those who were her greatest advocates, has abandoned, or is it to make our people feel better? Let's give people human dignity back. And finally, you know what I'd sing, what I've been listening to here today, "Just look at all the people, the coalition is stronger every day." My dears, this is what this is all about! No one wants to say good-bye to the authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Some of the tickets are here, and the next is Mrs Renata Brunskole and then Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Well-welcome, distinguished chairman, distinguished minister, colleague and colleague! The Republic of Slovenia is an independent country and veterans of the wars for Slovenia were those whose contribution to independence was exceptional. They fought for our freedom, our independence and the independence of Slovenia. They were willing to sacrifice their lives and risk losing their families to their husband, father, or son. I'm also the wife of a veteran of the war for Slovenia. And I am proud of this, especially because the White landscape played an important role in the independence of Slovenia. And my husband was one of those who stood up for it. It is not that he has been deprived of his rights at this time, it is of wider importance, it is the essence of why we propose to supplement and amend this law, both the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. The point is that we want to restore confidence in the work of politics to people who have fought for the independence of Slovenia. Give them back or give them the satisfaction that when they fought, when they were brave enough to be recognized today. Yesterday, the Ombudsman stressed human dignity — and as Dr. Črnak Megličev said today — is the foundation of human rights. And the essence of this amendment to the law is, for the first time, the preservation of the right to additional health insurance for all beneficiaries, veterans of war, who have been recognised by this right until the entry into force of the ZUJF. Secondly, the retention of the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for the category injured in the war for Slovenia. Thirdly, to ensure the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for dependent family members who have fallen into the war for Slovenia. And now that I'm talking about health insurance, I ask myself, who raised the insurance premium, what was the result? Let's be realistic, let's not let the demagogos talk. Last year, with the ZUJF, EUR 300,000 increased. Let's be honest, let's be honest, let's say it right. ZUJF has transferred health insurance prices to supplementary health insurance. We were against it in Positive Slovenia at the time, and we warned of that. That's the truth, that's the point, and let's not pretend or speak in public otherwise, that the amount went up for something else, if we know what the truth was. We're going to prevent the amendment of the law from being like our colleague mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš made it clear to war veterans and other categories of participants, beneficiaries, permanently deprived of the right to pay health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services provided under compulsory insurance, i.e. supplementary health insurance. The novel has set a period within which this right will enter into force. It will enter into force only in the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2.5% of gross domestic product. I wish that was two years from now, but we know at a given time what it means that economic growth will exceed 2.5% of GDP. And the essence of this change is to ensure that we have renewed confidence that we have not permanently forfeited certain rights to veterans and veterans. Therefore, let us now accept this amendment, it will not burden the state budget. Some of the colleagues who spoke about this did not prepare well for the presentation of the position, spoke with thought and incorrectness. When they spoke, if we give money for it, let's give money for it, and let's not waste, let's give it a little bit more, and so on, they didn't tell the truth. They did not say that it was only to end the permanent withdrawal, which was done by the infamous ZUJF, which was discriminatory to veterans, but that it was to determine the time when Slovenia would go well when we would sail out of the crisis and give the veterans back what they deserved, so all our debate today. And, as my colleague Han said, we will not be talking about ideology today, it would not be right to discuss this here, but to be right, to talk about what people deserve, people have gathered and it is right and proper for them to get what they got when they are better, good times, deserved to be given back in Slovenia. And we will not burden the state budget until Slovenia is in crisis. As also pointed out by colleague Weber in the presentation: "Let's go to the adoption of this also in order for Slovenia to emerge from the moral crisis." It is a crisis of values, which we are only deepening today with such attacks and incorrect debates, which is not good for us, is not good for all of us citizens and citizens of Slovenia. So let's accept this, because we're not going to hurt ourselves, we're not going to be here to be Minister of Mags. The visionary is therefore made more gray hair, not because then it will have to be taken care of when Slovenia goes better when we have 2.5% economic growth. We are not doing any harm to the state budget, but we are returning what people have honestly and deservedly earned. That is why I will support this change of law, as I am a cosigner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brunskol. Minister, you want a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u108	I cannot really respond to such a misleading debate, at least in the part where it seeks some deeper reasons for interfering with the rights associated with this additional health insurance, and this links with the rise in premiums for insurance and the like. It was a very clear position of the Government and the competent minister that there were no valid reasons for the then increase in premiums for insurance companies, but this happened nevertheless, because insurance companies unfortunately aspired to and voted after the profits as many other companies as possible and took advantage of every apparent opportunity to do so. This was then condemned and condemned by the government today because I do not think there were any reasons for this. I also take the floor because I see that this debate is not about understanding the ZUJF as well as the Government's ambitions at the creation of the ZUJF to permanently restrict certain public spending in this country, irrespective of the crisis and regardless of economic growth. You must be aware that in this country we also had a deficit in the duration of the contract, which lasted from 2000 to 2008. In 2007 alone, we managed to balance the expenditure with the revenue, which was the only year when we had a balanced budget, all the other years we covered the minus of the state treasury with the debt. Even at the time of economic growth. I believe that with the crisis came the final time of sobriety and the knowledge that spending also needs to be limited to some reasonable, even bearable level. Certainly not on the shoulders of the most socially weak, but the rights that have been allocated in the past or are still meaningful in the future need to be considered. So let's say ZUJF also permanently intervenes in preschool education. This has not been mentioned, but it is a permanent intervention and does not merely bind this intervention to the economic crisis. And a whole bunch of other benefits, like health insurance and so on. Why? Because it's a simple knowledge that you don't want or you don't want to understand that it just can't be spent in this country for a long time more than it's created. It creates our economy, not our politicians, we just want to create the conditions for this economy to create and any additional burden, such rights as we are talking about today, means that someone will eventually pay for it. And that is not what our economy can pay, because day-to-day jails, the number of unemployed is higher, social transfers are under pressure, and also compensation for the unemployed. And to talk about the rights that are over social adjustment is simply passed and depressed. I understand you want to listen to the interests of those who have lost their right. You are right, you feel hurt, but our mission in this House is above the expectations of individuals who want to keep this income and still have it. We need to worry about the stability of our public finances so that in the future we and our children have something to eat or to go to school or have a health system like we have or the functioning of a social state as we have it. In our country, it is a social policy close to a quarter of what was created in this country, and it is difficult to say that it is not a social state. If we include free levels of education and so on, we are already very high. And if we want these systems to work with the economy we have, we must sometimes bite into such hard nuts as the limitation of one right to those who are not socially threatened, permanently, not temporarily. That is why this proposal was also made by the Government and public finances, as well as by me as a ministry, which would probably, given that I cover the material veterans, but not publicly, be understood to attach to you, and I have this point of view because of this public financial picture at the forefront. But not because our balance sheets look good, but to stabilise the functioning of this country in terms of all other transfers that go to individuals in the future. If we do not stabilise this, we can wipe ourselves under our noses into the future for a number of rights, which are in itself today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Branko Ficko, is next in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u110	Your Honor! One of the coalition partners said today that the ZUJF was a remarkable marriage. Extremely weak, yes. But is it normal that 40 laws are in one package at a time? It can't be any different. It was said that social dialogue had been adopted. How, then, do trade unions now find themselves in trouble with closets? And one such problem is this. And if we're going to save money, it's just not today's debate, but let's take a look. The Spaniards are saving, the Portuguese are saving, the Greeks are saving, and they're getting worse every day. If we are unable to encourage consumption, if there is not one job except through ministries now that you are fleeing like a sunken ship, there are no new jobs. Tell me, where are the ten, twenty thousand jobs? They're gone. Tell me if it's not true that one firm dies every week. Where are the incentives? It is not true that you are negotiating with Brussels for the next perspective, because there are some officials going there, that no minister has time to go to Brussels to discuss a perspective that is of great importance to us. Pukšič, Dr. Science, as far as European funds are concerned, he's been drinking our blood for three years, now it's quiet, now it's gone, now he's dealing with the Piran Bay and now he's dealing with Janez Janša. Come on! Look, the division of badges and nomadic celebrations won't take away what we're taking from them now. But we only give these veterans when it's time not to repeat this story. [[...]] But these veterans are probably collateral damage. You have mirrored NOBs, interns and so on, and now those poor people have fallen among them. And we will reward them for being willing to die for this country in 1990, 1991 and later by doing this nonsense now. Look, the state won't be saved if it's not approved when we're rich. Those fighters, you know, that's 80, 50, 90-year-old people today are not going to see 2.5% of gross social product growth. They will not, as long as you are in government, be speechless, impossible unless we change economic and other policies. That's impossible! And let's go to investment, you say we're going to invest. And we don't have one building permit! That's who we're building, and that's it. We've destroyed three toll stations and via. It's all the art of this government. Squirrel, you're a smart man, you're an economist, you've got livestock and everything, but your discussions, man can only laugh. Really, I'm sorry! I want you to remain a strong government, change politics, give people a job, give them the same education rights for everyone, not those who live in Ljubljana, but get out of this mud that we are in. I will, of course, support this bill in order to help these people at least when we have 2.5% growth in gross social product. Thank you very much. Squirrel, I'm sorry, I didn't mean anything by it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u111	Here you go, Mr. Roman Zveglich. Procedurally choose first you, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u112	Madam President, I've been waiting for what you'll do. I don't know why you'd give Mr. Roman Squirrel a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u113	Because he mentioned him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u114	Yeah, I'm sorry, but he hasn't discussed it yet, so he can't have a replica. But when he discusses it, he'll be able to have a replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u115	You're right, Mr. Han. Mr Roman Žveglič, Mr Han's procedural explanation was correct and you will also be able to say something after your discussion. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor, followed by Mrs Marija Plevčak or Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you. Maybe I'll try to help instead of Roman. At ZUJF we first witnessed ideological differences when it was taken away from those who specifically had something to do with a five-pointed star. However, a selective discriminatory approach was also used in addition to categories of war veterans such as supplementary health insurance, payment of premiums for injured persons, allowance for dependent family members and so on. This is supposed to save the poor 15 million euros. I agree that somewhere this money needs to be found, of course not directly in the economy. It could be found in other areas, such as the last case relating to funds from state forests, where the Court of Auditors finds that we lose approximately €16 million annually on concessions for state forests. Perhaps we could look for other areas where this money could be found, perhaps there is still something left of the arms sales quota. Obviously, some of them, when they were looking for savings in the budget, I agree, they hit individuals right away, people with pensions and allowances or damages, including at the expense of war veterans. And by doing so, human rights are being curtailed, and above all, what has already been acquired in the past is being taken away. In this case, it's compensation, not an allowance. And that, in my opinion, is an essential difference. And if you had to take this away, let's not make this permanent, because the people, the beneficiaries, are ready to make their contribution as many times as they have already done, because they have saved even our 20-year period and they are not guilty of the financial situation, so let's not punish them. Of course I'll support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs Maria Plevčak, who I do not see here. So it's Mr. Just Bevk's turn. Get Mr. Joseph Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Last year, in the National Assembly or in the National Assembly, because I did not support this law, the Public Finance Balance Act reduced the pensions of 26 thousand 300 pensioners, including a veteran of war for Slovenia and a fighter of national liberation. I'm not so worried about the cuts that were 350, 300 euros and so on. I am more concerned about those reductions, which were 10, 20, 50, 100, 150 euros, because all of these have been reduced to 622 euros, since the lowest reduction was approximately €770 minus €100. And if someone had 667 euros, his pension went down 40 euros, and so on, and he came to the sum that the government had set, that it wouldn't work under 622. Well, the one who had a pension of 622 euros or less had nothing to do with it, and the one who had a pension of over 622 had fallen. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because, if he was a veteran of the war on Slovenia, he had a pension of €650, he has fallen to 622, and now with this measure he will have a reduction of €30, because he will have to pay so much more from his income for this health premium. It is said that we have actually reduced these veterans, pensioners, not just veterans of the war for Slovenia, because not all of them are pensioners yet, but, above all, all the NOB fighters, still alive, by about 30 euros of their income. But now they're actually under the average of pensions, so not more than 622, but less than 600 euros. You also took an annual allowance to all those who had a few euros over 622 - 650, 700 and so on. Thus, in fact, thousands of pensioners have been reduced under €600 by this measure, which we want to correct today. That is why I think, Mr Minister, that your coalition, which today, according to colleagues and colleagues, is as solid as a stone, could only appeal to their colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly to support the law proposed by colleague Matjaž Han as the first-signed Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I just want to deny this debate, because it doesn't. The right to a veteran supplement, which is the price for the right to additional health insurance, is linked to the income of a family member rather than to the individual income. No matter what kind of pension a person has received, it depends on what family he lives in and how much income he has for a family member and is also entitled to a veteran allowance. Thus, to those over this right, more than €622, as you have called it – this is, by the way, the average pension in the Republic of Slovenia for the full pension period – therefore depends on what kind of family he lives in, what conditions he lives in. It depends on whether the transaction also has this right or not, not on its individual remuneration, because you only went on an individual.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u121	Here you go, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Yeah, he's partial to veterans, and that's the younger ones who have families. But the fighters, the partisans, they're probably alone, they don't have big families. With the ZUJF, you've reduced it to 622, and now you're lowering it by 30 more, and they're actually going below 600 euros. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič and Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In this law, which has been tabled by two opposition parties, I must say that I am somehow associated with their tendency under the conditions of the state crisis at a time when people were treated with blood and leeches for severe diseases. Somehow, too, it's on your part to leave blood to the state in conditions of severe financial distress. In fact, I'm surprised that in such an unselective way, when you guarantee how hard you are and you're interested in the state getting out of these problems, you're making such laws that are, of course, populist. You can operate with them and deceive people in the country. It is clear from this that the Minister must protest after each performance that this law is not on the line to really correct injustices, but is primarily in the function of populism and obtaining daily political points. This is allowed in politics, but it is not really in every situation of the country. I must say that even after the adoption of the ZUJF, when individual laws were being tabled, when the government adopted certain amendments or coalition corrected certain illogicalities, ambiguities and even injustices, I heard such nonsense when a member of this national assembly said that we had caused injustice to the fighter for the northern border. I then commented here internally that this testimony was clearly in a miracle, because the last fighter for the northern border died 14 years ago and I do not know how he could be wronged 14 years after his death. But it is true, and there is also a duality that the fighters behind the northern border and the tigers in the previous country have suffered horrendous injustices. They could not enforce practically anything, they were always discriminated against. And since you are the bearers of some political tradition from those times, from the only party that existed at that time, I would expect that there would be a little more criticism and a fair relationship. I think that the only Maister fighters who received the national medal from Mr Kučan were 100 years old, three still alive, in 1998, 1999. Before that, they were not even given thanks. The number of beneficiaries of these supplements decreased from 80 000 to 40 000 by the implementation of the ZUJF and also after correction. I think that because it is a category that is not socially threatened by censorship, that there are significantly fewer participants in the war for Slovenia and in reality, today 80,000 people, who, as relatives of 70 years after World War II with realistic criteria, could no longer be honest matters. Let's be clear about that. That these were some of the privileges that some have come to. Of course, there is no law anywhere within the scope of injustice, and there is absolutely no law of righteousness. I am also discussing the possibility of being a veteran, because when I became an MP, the veterans themselves came to me with a request to join me to apply for status because I met the criteria because I kept my weapons from the Bedroom in large quantities. But I didn't join, I don't have the status for the same reasons as Roman Zveglič explained. If we want to be Millimetre - righteous, we should also reexamine who is asserting all of this and who is loud today. And because of these obvious purposes, with this law, to collect political points, I will not support this law. But it is true that you will have every opportunity when you come to power, that you are generous, that you will share everything, only with interest will I observe how effective you will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. Since I do not see him, the next word is Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music and then Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor! Why the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act was ever introduced, it is clear. Because we have done certain injustices with this ZUJF and have drastically intervened in the rights acquired to many war veterans and war victims, and pensions and other benefits have also been reduced. In doing so, some groups have deliberately released this measure, which is enshrined in the ZUJF, and we may wonder why, namely, forced conscripts into the German army, refugees, exiles, labour deportations and other victims of war violence. The basic objective of the amendment is to preserve the right to additional health insurance for all beneficiaries, war veterans who have been recognised by this right to enforce the Public Finance Balance Act. The second is the retention of the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for the category wounded in the war for Slovenia and the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for dependent family members who have fallen into the war for Slovenia. With the amendment of the law, the right to supplementary health insurance will be guaranteed to war veterans who receive a veteran supplement and meet the conditions for obtaining a veteran supplement, wounded and widowed, children and elderly, dependent members and fallen in war for Slovenia. What is wrong with the above-mentioned fact that the ZUJF removes the rights acquired from it? Are we aware that these are the people who stood out when it was most difficult when Slovenia was in uncertainty — whether or not? Where were all those brave men back then? Today, when we change and eliminate some of the people who actually have it together, we need to know that this shows a great deal of ingratitude for those who were then willing to expose themselves and even give their lives for the country in which we live. And I don't think it's right and even fair of all those who dare to change and cut into their rights to reduce the rights of those who make us all here today in the independent Republic of Slovenia. I don't know what you can convince me of. With what you can convince yourself, it is clear to me, but I think that in Slovenia we should respect our history more, respect those who have been willing to stand upright until today and have a upright attitude when they may have lost their lives for the country and country in which we live today. Unfortunately, we didn't know how to run it that well, but today we have economic and other problems. But it's not the people who fought for Slovenia's cause. And war veterans certainly are not guilty that politics and politics could not better manage state investment, could not better run this country and steer this country and engage in European connections. They are not guilty, and it is not right for us to take them now that the state is experiencing a crisis. We should all work together to produce more, to create more, to create better conditions for all the people who live in this country. No, no, no. We are used only to cutting, saving, saving, and very little to create conditions for economic growth, for better prosperity, which in fact we all promise when elections are elections to voters and voters. I will support the law, and I also expect from all those who are aware of the importance of all those who have entered into the war veterans, that you will actually understand them and also correct the injustice that has been done to them by accepting the ZUJF. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Meh has the floor, Mrs Iva Dimic is prepared and Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u128	Ladies and gentlemen! It is an incredible situation that, even in the future, it is not about concrete money, nor is it about money, because it has already been lost because we have taken it, even though I have not voted for it. But it is our attitude toward the mistake we have made, the attitude of the National Assembly and politics, if you will, as well as governments, to how we treat those who have given our own Slovenia life and fought. This is about the rights we've already given. These people didn't get some new rights, they had them, and we took them. The letters you received were not lonely when people asked, "Did we fight for it?" They didn't fight for money, they fought for their country like many did before. And we've taken these people's moral rights and we're fixing it today, and we want to fix it. And I'm asking you when we're talking about politics, what Mr Tonin was saying. He said, "Support this law. We can still make a deal." We were talking about the Referendum Act and the Civil Initiative. "Let's give ourselves a chance to talk." That's what we say. Let us uphold the law on the correction of injustices for having a face, not just in front of a mirror, which I hope we will look at every morning, but in front of the mirror that people place on us. ZUJF adopted the political act adopted by the coalition, the government wrote, the coalition accepted, with savings where we took many rights and we actually just saved. Today, ladies and gentlemen of coalition parties, you said at this consideration of this amendment to this law that you have no intention of admitting and returning what people have already had. It is said that the coalition is so solid, we have already talked about it, and I am glad that you have expressed your views so firmly on something we have done wrong. But I'm sad about Slovenia. Are all these actions that you take in individual parties, farce, play to hide the real causes and that Janez Janša will not have to give up? Is that it? Or it is in fact that we try as the National Assembly to take the step that is the step that we have taken to make a mistake, including pride, and to restore those rights, and in some way also our self-confidence that we have given our own invaders or fighters the right recognition. I probably didn't fight directly for the independence of Slovenia at the time. But I was among all those who did everything we could to hide the weapons and lay conditions for territorial defence and other things. I am proud of what we have done in Slovenia. And I'm proud of all the associations that still care today that we'll never forget that when someone takes your pride from you, they have to go against it. And today, fighters and everyone else are asking us to do so, not even asking, asking us to do so, silently shouting to correct these injustices. If this is a populist act that costs nothing right now, but we say that we will do it when we have a 2.5% increase in social product, step in. You'll be on a train that will politically correct the injustices that we've committed here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Get ready, Dr. Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Today we are talking about the novel ZUJF, which would correct the injustices, and I am also sure of the injustices that have been committed. After all, the ZUJF is a law that is needed, which is welcome for our future, for our country's business and public finances. However, as many modifications and corrections as he has seen so far, it shows that he is flawed, that he needs to be corrected in such a way that he is even better than he is. The novelty that we are proposing is probably one of the segments that will improve from the parts that this law will improve, mainly because of the fact that we will correct this injustice to all those who have been wronged. After all, the veterans and veterans who had the right to ratings recognised by this decision, if we want to, were simply deprived of this right by this law. I wonder whether this selectivity has been intentional or unintentional, since we know that there are many other beneficiaries in this law, from refugees to wartime interns, to mobilizers, not least of all victims of war violence, but this right has not been denied. Justice has only been forfeited to this group, which we are now advocating that justice be corrected in return. If we think that every ZUJF we accept will require further and redefined our past, our history, then we are indeed a very funny country. With this ZUJF, we redefine all these rights and the status of war veterans and veterans, with all due respect for veterans and veterans, although I know that the correction of the ZUJF in this sense does not mean so much for them in a material sense, it is more about moral sense, it is about respect for human dignity. Look, we all talked a lot yesterday when the Ombudsman's report on dignity and human rights and fundamental freedoms was discussed, but today we are able to easily and easily walk some rights and some things that create dignity for those people who have given something more to our country than all of us. I am very keen on all the debates that have already been on the verge of insulting all veteran organisations. No one has the right to insult an individual, a veteran, a veteran, or an organization by refusing to join this organization. It is his very personal judgment and his decision whether to go to this organization or not. As a result, I am actually very sad, and it is likely that veterans and veterans are sad when they listen to these discussions. After all, we didn't want to open any new wounds, we didn't want to open up this novel with a proposal to open up some divisions and divisions between us, we still respect all veteran organizations, veterans and veterans. This novel, as has been said many times today, does not interfere with any financial implications in the current fiscal situation, but rather, when it is better for the country, when the GDP of the 2.5 per cent, then these rights should be maintained and those rights exercised and exercised. Once again, the ZUJF would probably not have made any mistakes and no drastic intervention, if this were accepted, and also to veterans and veterans, it probably doesn't benefit much or mean much to them, but it means respect for them, which in some way we express to their work and to their contribution to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, the next is mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! I understood that the Public Finance Balance Act is a law that temporarily interferes with the acquired rights of many of the categories of this population in our country and that this is due to the different types of crisis we are in. However, it is evident that both this law and some progenys in it are also trying to permanently interfere with certain rights. Here we are now on the question of how, normally, in normal countries in democracy, we permanently take away certain groups of people's rights, which are also protected by the Constitution. Do we do this unilaterally with a decree, with some law that the majority can adopt, or do it on the basis of a social agreement? We believe that these groups, which cannot be deprived of their rights, are subject to a common social agreement between veterans, and we therefore propose that, when it comes to the issue of permanent rights, veterans should be exempt from and return to what we have promised them and to many of them who participated in many veteran celebrations in their speeches. Many times after such talks, in which there were many emotional patriotic outbursts, they came to us and said thank you for those kind words. But do these words materialize, and where will they materialize? And they did! In the history of this country, when life was significantly worse than we are now, the Law on War veterans and other laws, which set out common agreed rights for these people, were adopted; eight were listed together. It is said that we have been able to agree that these people, due to their contribution to this common history and to our common country, belong to certain rights or compensation for their participation in the fight for our country. If we can at least do something small but material for them, then at least the rights we have given them in the worst times should be preserved by getting them back — in better times. I understand that the Government has tried to maintain its face by saying that veteran rights, in particular one part of the material veteran rights, would leave to those veterans who are a social problem. But the problem is that veterans did not become veterans, not in us or in the world, because of their social status, but because they participated in wars, important wars for the history of a country. This has also been the basis for those eight rights that have been granted so far. So, what would be right is not to tell these people that their veteran status is worth something just because they may have become a social problem because they have become sick and so on. So that we do not recognize them as veterans because they are a social problem, but that we recognize their rights as veterans because we appreciate their contribution to the history of our country. That's all this is about. We want certain rights to be permanently restored to them when the country can do so again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u134	Dear former Minister, I must remind you that you are relatively inconsistent. Indeed, you are now at odds with the right to a veteran supplement to the social situation of this veteran, not to his contribution. This is about as much as tying the right to school meals to all schoolchildren because they are schooling and are our future, regardless of social status. It was you, in your government, who passed a law that limited these things to social weaknesses. Socially weak, that is to say, children from socially weaker families receive food and, of course, these benefits are proportional to this. In short, each normal country has, in certain rights, certain categories or whole social strata, selectivity arising from the income situation of the family — generally family, not individual. There are also certain universal rights. As a rule, universal rights are linked to family policy in Europe. Developed countries invest in the family, universally, regardless of the situation, even though we are very selective here, for example, by tying the children's allowance to the family's income censorship. So I cannot agree with you when you say that the right to – one of the rights, we are not talking about all, one of the rights, that is the right to additional health insurance, should be linked to the contribution of these people, that is to say their status, but not to the social situation at the same time. This could possibly be possible if this country had a gold or oil mine or certain revenues to finance such expenditure. The state of Slovenia has very little natural wealth, it has its people with their heads, that is, minds and hands that create what we can use in this country. I am sorry that even in the years when we had an enviable economic growth in this country, we have not been able to create as much as we have spent; with the exception of 2007. That is why it is the task of every responsible government and authority to try to balance public finances, not because of, as I say, cosmetics and these beautiful reports to external markets or external partners in the European Union or more, but because it is able to finance all the subsystems of society in the country in a stable manner. Because only if it consumes as long as it creates, then a stable system can function. Any gap between consumption and creation causes instability in a society that is sooner or later reflected in a negative light and later, when the country finds out, is worse to finance critical subsystems. That is why, with the Public Finance Balance Act – you obviously did not understand it – we intervened primarily on certain rights permanently. Mostly permanent. Temporary measures are in a special chapter and are relatively rare, but we are talking only about interventions in this pension, after the former 232nd Article of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, so-called extraordinary pensions or whatever we call them, and family policy. It was basically like a temporary measure. And one thing: these measures, the ZUJF – the Public Finance Balance Act – have been relatively tolerant, I will not say support, but rather a tolerant relationship of the social partners, or an agreement has been reached with many segments of the users of these goods. Remember, the cops had a problem with that, and then we arranged it with them. I want to say that we have been aware of the needs and importance of some broader agreement on these measures, not only that there is, as you have called, a certain majority and with a strong hand, reaching into these rights. No! No! No, it was more than that. It is true, as you say, that we did not negotiate for every group that this law engulfs, especially non-veterans. However, veterans and also victims of war violence expressed their position when adopting this law, and this was also dealt with at the time – I cannot say that it was fully taken into account, but quite a bit. Therefore, once again, the right to this additional health insurance is linked to the property of the family from which this veteran originates. And it does not work, I also have to correct you here, it is not a social hazard, because the minimum income limit in this country, which represents some minimum subsistence minimum for an individual, is, for example, for a family of three, three times lower than the limit for maintaining this additional health insurance. In fact, the three-member family has a minimum income of around EUR 500, with a minimum limit of EUR 1500 for the three-member family and EUR 500 for each member. In short, we attach this right to a significantly higher price than is the case for socially disadvantaged people, or those who, according to the legislation you have adopted, are in your government, in this Parliament, when you have had a majority, treated as a minimum of survival for each family, individual, couple or family with multiple children. In this exercise of this right, we had a very shaky hand, because we were aware that we were interfering with a sensitive subject, and we expected attacks in that sense, that those we are doing are not aware of the importance of war veterans and so on. On the contrary! We greatly appreciate this contribution and believe that one part of the contribution of these war veterans is to normalise long-term matters in this country, including what we have proposed at the time and what you are now trying to relativise.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u135	Here you go, Dr. Jelusich, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that I am pleased that in some parts you have continued to take action by the previous government, because in this predominant neo-liberalist spirit of the government in which you are, it has been very difficult for me to keep listening for the socially weaker and thank you for what you have done. But I must also tell you that veterans are not the group, they are not the social partners who will negotiate for their rights; we, society, us, politicians, Members of the government are the ones who have to negotiate for their interests. That's what this is about! We are the ones who must be grateful to them for being able to adopt laws in this country now or to debate here. And they don't have to sit here with us, we have to have enough human obedience to defend some of the rights we gave them, you gave them, in the past. That's all this is about, the question of this permanently acquired right: whether they're good or not. You believe that they are no longer doing so, we believe, precisely with the proposal of this novel that they are also going forward, of course, when the social and financial situation of this country will be better. Governments come and go, and veterans will stay and it is a question of whether we are capable at this moment of realizing that we will still leave to these people some of the rights that our predecessors in this House have given them for better times in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u137	He asked the Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u138	Otherwise, I am already a customary etiquette of the neoliberal government, a respected lady of the former minister, I am no neoliberal, all the people who know me know this, and I believe that such assessments are really unfounded and not in place. And tell me if maybe we didn't get rid of some neoliberal views from the government. That's one thing. The second thing I ask you - rhetorically, because I do not expect and cannot expect you to answer – what would you put first when we breathe again and enjoy economic growth in this country: will we then raise the minimum income now €260 per individual and have to survive, say, €280,290, or will we raise the minimum income of a family with one child, parents and one child from €500 to €600, or will we then pay additional health insurance to veterans, where the income of a family member exceeds €500? This country still has a number of tasks in terms of economic growth to address and address the problem in the social sphere, including in social and social areas in particular. Otherwise, we will also be able to discuss whether we are going to grant young people a scholarship and to what extent, or whether we will return the universal state grant to the underage students who lost it. By the way – do you know when in which government? You know, these are, in my view, essential priorities that this country must make on the expenditure side in the future when we enjoy economic growth. I hope that any of those I have mentioned not to mention family policy, the increase in children's allowances and the universal gift at the birth of a child will be reintroduced and so on. I think we will have to do this when we have more revenue in the budget due to economic activity. However, I do not want the repetition of the times we have lived, when we have spent more than we create, in the long term we owe this country, and now we are paying hundreds of millions of euros a year in interest that could be devoted to some social policy or investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Leila Hercegovac, prepare Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u140	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! It is difficult to vote for laws that permanently take away anything and take it away from people. That's not what we're here for. We are here to improve the laws with which everyone will be satisfied. We take the war veterans and victims of material justice permanently. Mr. Minister, I fully understand the ZUJF, I understand your explanation of the ZUJF, I understand the amount of money and the sustainability of the budget. But I'm asking you to understand me and all those who think the same and we care more about the man than the money. The law needs to be fixed! Why? Because, in fact, that money represents compensation for physical and mental injury, in the end, gratitude and some payment for people who have done something for the country. Such a relationship offends them and destroys additional mental health. For me, but also for many other people, the most important healthy person in the country is the greatest value because he loves his country. This is the way we really do wrong people, their mental health is getting worse and they feel bad. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, but I think the correction of this marriage would make sense. Some talk about 12.5 million savings, and others about 14.5 million, but that's small money, if we know that some consulting firms give about forty million and many other things. Minister, despite money, you must also think about human health, and especially mental health, because this is a major problem in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor, Mr Jerko Čehovin is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, I believe you understand all that we're saying. A little earlier, and more than once, it has been said that you are one of the better ministers, rhetorically very capable, cognizant, but actions count. Not words, not promises, not remorse, not knowing how someone should get something, and it would be right if they did, and if they did, if they were a rich country, they would give it to him and so on. You know, respected minister, people, citizens and citizens of Slovenia are willing to sacrifice, they have proved this; sacrifice and give their contributions, money. Finally, these people, who are now taking something that they have already been given, were willing to give their lives as well. And these people are dignified. By doing so and by doing so, we beat their dignity. They will continue to preserve their honour, but I do not know how we will maintain our honor or will preserve the honor of those who vote against this law. Against the elimination of injustice. Not today, after a while, when this country will have the resources to give them and pay them back. Look, my friend Ficko said earlier that he was proposing where the money could be found. Only from forest concessions can you get as much money as you would need in a few years for our fighters and veterans of war. You know, about what happened with the ZUJF, we've talked about many times, there's been injustices, there's injustices happening every day, then there's excuses and so on. I'm sure, and I know that all injustices can't be eliminated at once. You've listed quite a few of them to happen, but today we have an opportunity to eliminate at least one injustice. Why don't we do it? Why do we not find so much wealth, honesty, maturity, and respect for those who have done much for this country to get back what we have already given them or to try to give them back what we have already given them? Because the worst part is when you take away what was given to someone; what society has admitted is right to get — not him. This was not invented by veterans, and neither was their desire to do what belonged to them. But it grew in the heads, in the hearts and in the minds of those we thanked for what they did and that's right. Now what someone's given, who's been where – it's no reason to talk about it. We all have in our families and in our friends some of those who were present who sacrificed, who became disabled, and also those who fell. That's why it's pointless to talk about it. What matters is what we are ready to do today. Dear Minister, you also promised to bring a personal assistance bill to the National Assembly in December, but it's not there. We said we would deal with it in December and so on. Good! We will then, because you will be able to replicate and answer that. So it takes actions, not words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u144	Dear Member, we have tried, described the law, sent it to Parliament and to a public debate, and you have not tried to verify it at all. I think it's just us in action. It's just about the Personal Assistance Act, by the way. There is now a public debate on this law and I invite you to add your contribution to this public debate. I think that this is a public debate and that this is useful for the future of this issue. Maybe just two answers, I'll be very short. It was said earlier by Mrs Hercegovac that it was small money. Yeah, it's small money when we share it, but it's big money when we create it or when we have to earn it. Eleven, twelve to fifteen million are quickly distributed in this House. But I think we should try very hard to make that money. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this side of the medal, that everything we share in this country and everything we understand we see to be financed must be earned; and this is our economy. I mentioned earlier that we don't have mines, we don't have oil, we don't have some things that make money on our own in this country, but we only have our hands and our heads to do it, and we can divide what we create. And the rhetorical question, when you say, Mr Kavtičnik, is that we have trampled on dignity. Do you think the dignity of the socially unhindered veterans of the war for Slovenia is 27 euros a month? Do you think we will restore our dignity, or will you restore the dignity of these people if we return 27 euros? I don't think so. I think we will restore their dignity to believe what they are fighting for and that we will make this country a country without the financial holes it has, a country of perspective and not least a more just country. If we do this, we will restore dignity to these people. However, if we return 27 euros to them, we will stop the new hole in the budget and I fear that there will be no purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Procedural? Proposer. Then, before that, Mr. Jožev Kavtičnik, who asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your explanation and your answer. You know, we supported the first law proposed by the civil initiative and we wanted this law to move forward so that it could be dealt with as soon as possible and enter into force. We were also prepared, and the proponents were prepared to make even a completely new one, just so that it would enter into force as soon as possible. I know that the law was given into procedure, and I apologize for misinterpreting myself. I should have said that it is not in the procedure that we do not yet consider in the National Assembly, which we have insisted on. You know, this isn't about money, so we don't accidentally think it's 27 euros or 7 euros and so on. Just a call. My father, who was forcibly mobilized to World War II, took 7 euros to the Russian front and said, "I will give 100 euros for this country, I will give 200 euros, no problem, I will give life! But it's a principle, it's a relationship." And that's important, you know – attitude! Maybe we don't understand each other here. Here you may weigh that everything is on the money, and we're talking about the relationship, this empathy, this is important. And when we work with people, it's an important relationship, not money, not medals, and so on. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u148	When I listen to the Minister, I agree with him in a certain part. In saying that there are 18 million in this case — about 18 million — it would take money for veterans to retain the rights they already had — a lot of money to share. That's what he said. And a very large amount of money that needs to be made. However, not long ago, in 2008, the same government, in which Mr Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy, was also able to share money in the last months before the elections. It was impossible to share money, although the crisis was forecasting, and we have not yet seen the crisis in Slovenia. And Mr Virant and I, the greatest expert in public administration, have made such a pay system to bring down our total state finances. Then, with a loving marriage: another child free of charge in kindergarten — we spent a lot of money. The municipalities built kindergartens, which resulted in the employment of people in kindergartens and educators. What we have done with this — today we take it back and it will not be five years before these kindergartens are alone because they will be too expensive because the congregations will not be able to pay them. Not to mention the measures that you shared without problem at the time. Dear Minister Andrej Vizjak, it is a shame that you did not use this intelligence today and would say that we stop the horses, we cannot spend it now. And we didn't take anyone at the time, but we were just giving. At the time, we all, too, had doubts, but I must say, we voted in favour because the elections were close. This country, this policy, has done a lot of damage to these people. And also, the economists have had a lot of damage with the privatisation that has taken place in your government, which we have the most problems with today. We do not have so many problems with not knowing what kind of economic environment in this country, but simply because companies are too accredited. But they're not accredited because of technological processes in companies, but because the tycoons started then during the flight, we know sometimes that we won't do it again, they started buying these companies with money that was fictional, that was somewhere in heaven that they couldn't save or invest, but they rather borrowed it. We've been in trouble ever since! When Mr Jerovšek said earlier that we were going to have some political demagogy. You too, Mr Vizjak, have now gone political demagogy by saying that the children are hungry, that's wrong, that's wrong, we'll take the children of course, when you excuse the children, we all resort. [[...]] But we're talking about war veterans, about people who made us the basis for being able, like, 90 of us, Members of Parliament, that you could be a minister, that we even have this country. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] If it wasn't for sure, because neither was I, because we weren't in the communists, so we probably wouldn't have made any progress. [[...]] That's what Lucky reminded me of. You need to have a little bit of second thought, though. When some of you were already in the National Assembly in 1995, when this legislation on war veterans was adopted, there was no talk of social money, about who we were going to take away, but at the time we were citing to the World Veteran Federation, about those recommendations that said it was not about social remedies, but about compensation for physical, mental injury and a sign of gratitude. We are aware that this moment is no time, there is no money for these various privileges. But you can't believable, even war veterans, everyone is aware, and they've suggested that because we've talked to them, they've suggested that because of the crisis in the country, we take one step back when the economic growth is 2.5% to get those rights back to them. They suggested it! As the opposition, however, we are only obliged to do some things in the National Assembly. Otherwise, there's a lot of room here for demagogy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u149	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u150	Well, just for a little while. Look, I wasn't talking about any demagogies, but at least the kids are hungry or something, like you said before. All I did was say what, as the minister responsible for this area, would put on a priority, what would be the priority of what would be taken care of if there were more income in this country and when more could be given. And I numbered the priorities and I went back to family politics and to a number of other rights, which were also violated by the ZUJF. There's no demagogies. That's my opinion. Why do I also object to this right coming back during the period of economic growth? Because I believe that before this, objectively speaking, there is still a lot to be done in this country: in the social field, in family policy and in connection, not least, with the socially weak. This is my elementary reason why this is no demagogy, this is purely a simple justification, why I believe that these too are the delay conditions for the exercise of this right, according to my assessment, are not in place. [[...]] In fact, I would also like to take advantage of this to attach to your first part that we have adopted, at a time of relatively favourable economic activity, a reform of the wage system in the public sector, for which we now have a headache, when we are looking for savings here also in 5% of wages, when we see how everything is tied up, tied up, tied up, every right three times, and the result is that we have a lot of, a lot of trouble to do. At that time, we listened to the actors, seeing how this is now comparable to the economy, but we see that the light-year policy in the public sector is from the flexibility of wage policy in the real sector. So you're absolutely right here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and then Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must say that at least by Members of the disintegrating coalition in most cases it is not clear what this is about. It's clear to the Minister, but he's, uh, sorry about the expression, but he's being misdirected. The point is that these veterans only want this right, like all the other beneficiaries affected by the ZUJF. Others are said to regain these rights when economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia is 2.5%. Yeah, that's what it says! That most of these provisions and today they only want to be equal to others. [[...]] All these veterans themselves have given up paying for them, this is like our contribution to stabilising the situation, until the economic growth is 2.5%, we are giving up the payment of additional health insurance. That's what they've been through. I see no reason why they should not be levelled, especially because for some of them this right does not just come about – and at least for the moment, I hope it is not above the Constitution and the law. We are in the constitutional law of some people even this right – we have also violated these rights with the ZUJF and no one has a headache, even though the President of the Government and ministers have sworn to respect the Constitution and constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, too, it is not a social transfer, as there has been a lot of talk here, it is a right that these people have had with decisions. But we are still talking about what the children's allowance will say, and so on, people themselves realize that the country is in a difficult situation, and they themselves have said that they do not have to just have this right back to them, that when economic growth is again 2.5%, it will come back to them. [[...]] And here's the question of how to treat veterans. I don't want to compare myself with Italy, because in a lot of ways I don't like it, but the Italians are still paying for the widows of former military veterans. They're still paying part of the pension gap. The Italians also had difficult austerity measures, perhaps even harder than us in many ways, but they did not think of, say, doing some discrimination within these beneficiaries. However, we have made twice the discrimination: under the general provision of the ZUJF and within this group of veterans we have preserved some, and some we have not kept – without explanation! Earlier, my colleague, Jože, had said that, say, his father was not deprived of health insurance when he was mobilized for the German army, but he was a veteran of the war for Slovenia, but we took it. Who understands that? That is why these rights must be equalised or returned, in particular because they have no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because we all know that, and now allow me to make a vague prediction that there will be no growth of 2.5% under this government for a few years. Thus, in practice, some of them, particularly partisans, have actually taken this right for life. So I see no reason not to admit some mistakes, but rather stubbornly insist that because we have adopted here and because we had in our coalition contract – this has become more than the constitution this year, more than the laws – and this must be taken into account. Without such ethical integrity, we said: we made a mistake, fix and regulate these things, as these veterans suggest. Once again, they don't want these 27 euros now, but they say that when they get other rights, they will also give them back those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, then Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Only because of the objective information of people who listen to us. In fact, the Public Finance Balance Act has generally regulated permanent measures and it is not true that everyone is temporary and that you only want temporaryity here. In fact, we have 39 laws in the second chapter, which are changing and constantly changing, and then we have some other permanent measures that are not bound by this, and then we have some temporary measures. In short, it is not true that, as a rule, temporary measures are regulated in the ZUJF, but, as a rule, permanent measures to reduce public consumption are regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u155	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, Mr Roman Jakič is preparing. Excuse me, you have a replica, Mr. Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u156	No, I only have a replica in this part to correct the minister so no law can be adopted permanently. As we can see, the Constitution is not yet permanent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u157	Here you go, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In short, I would like to draw all Members and Members' attention to the fact that, although it has been repeatedly said today, it is true that these structures, when it comes to fighters, when it comes to veteran wars, that they have been wronged because we took away something that has been recognised to them years ago, which our predecessors recognised and for which they have also had decisions. In December, representatives of the Union of Fighters and representatives of the North Society spoke to me in my office. They said that they felt degraded or hurt because we did not treat them the same way as everyone else, and that they were willing to sacrifice, sacrificed, and put their lives on the altar of their homeland, and today we demolish them with such measures. They say that they are ready — those who have higher pensions — to contribute more to the balance of public finances, but that we do not admit something to them when we can — is also said to have been repeatedly told today that this right is being repaid to them when we reach more than 2.5 GDP. So I would point to this again and appeal to the National Assembly to consider if we could do something small for these people so that they would not be so affected, because they also believe that it is some kind of rematch. So, it's not about the right to additional health insurance, it's not about social justice, it's about the right they've been given, and it's now forever taken away from them. I suggest we think about this before we conclude this debate and we will vote before it, because it might be possible, however, to agree that when we are in a better situation, we will return to these people what I think belongs to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u159	Mr Matjaž Han, as the proposer, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u160	I have to say, I'm more surprised every day. I appreciate and advise Mrs Poropat, given that she is significantly more experienced than I am, the elderly lady, that she does not have to appeal to the Social Democrats and to Positive Slovenia, but try to agree on six of you, because it will be significantly easier and we may adopt some kind of law. Last but not least, DeSUS has backed the ZUJF, the primary. As much as I listened to Mrs Jenko when she presented her position, she said that she would not support this law that we have given today. If possible – otherwise it is good to appeal to us, to the Social Democrats and to Positive Slovenia, but it is good that you agree with each other and then vote because we may even be able to get through some kind of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u161	Mr. Jursha, do you have a procedure? Do you have a replica, please? [[...]] No, you had a general discussion. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute, what do you want to replicate? You were personally not mentioned. As the leader of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u162	I'm the head of the parliamentary group. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u163	Well, I'm asking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u164	Madam President, I am the leader of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u165	Okay, I asked you kindly if you have a replica like yourself, because you weren't mentioned, but if you have a leader of a delegation, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the National Assembly, honourable Member Han, I have repeatedly said that it would be very nice for each Member Group to take care of itself, even this time. I'm not going to argue why I voted for the ZUJF because I said that when I did it. This time, however, I must say that I myself am a member of that group that we have been in for Slovenia alone, saying that I am a veteran of war, I am a member of the Manevska structure of national protection, and so far, because I was over five and a half years old, I have also received this compensation for the payment of health insurance. I would be happy to confirm this proposal if I did not know what kind of problems this country is in and that in some ways all of us, all of us, have contributed to it. Now, I don't think everyone has any salary like me as a Member has a much lower salary. But up to 500 euros per family member – all of them will also get it further, and those who have higher or higher incomes will not get it. You know, three, four years from now, when it will be in Slovenia, I hope and sincerely wish that there will be a better situation in this country, a government that will be able to propose and adopt such a law. But for now, I think the measure is what it is, and I will personally support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I would politely ask that we try to do what is right to the greatest extent possible, to speak, even in relation to other matters. Proposer, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u168	Mr Jurša, hat down because you fought for us today in Slovenia alone. That's what I'm saying from my heart! Now, if you're listening to me or not, I just wanted to advise your Lady Porotat that we don't need to be influenced to vote in favour, but only you need to be influenced to vote in favour. There's nothing else. And today it's hard for me and you to compare with a high salary and talk about how hard it is for some people to live. We have a little blurry memory or perspective on all of this. Mr. Jurša, I didn't say anything bad about you, I just said that you should mention one proposal in DeSUS and support the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u170	Well, I would really like to thank Mr. Han for making sure that I can refer to who this is going on, as I say in the National Assembly. But look, I didn't want to go specifically to the Social Democrats or specifically to the Civil Gazette or specifically to my colleagues, but if you remember when we adopted the ZUJF and when there were several groups that were very unhappy and we were talking about changing in the fall of the ZUJF to eliminate the anomalies. Now, I don't know if my memory is cheating on me, but it can also, because it was said, I'm older, but my mind still serves me. That is why I would like to say that I have tried to present the problem in the sense that we really all remember this and that when there are better times I am aware that we are in great financial difficulties and that we have a lot of social problems that are burning, and we cannot give them there, even though we want to and so on, but that such categories that have special merit for our country, that we have free Slovenia today, that we do not simply walk these categories, not forget them, but that we respect them. [[...]] And if we respect them to say when we can, we will return it, because it is the reward for their courage, the reward for their upright attitude at that time. I would not want to impose an immediate additional burden on the budget, but I also wanted to remind the Minister that it was promised that we would discuss this again in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the word, prepare the mag. Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Vice President. If I agree somewhere, I agree that this is not really about demagogism, and no one wants to say it out loud, it's about ideological accounting. The change in the ZUJF was, in fact, an ideological account not only with NOB fighters, but also an ideological account with intellectuals, especially intellectuals, and education professionals, who are mostly in the public sector. Also due to this ideological accounting and revenge, the largest coalition party of the SDS will also break down this coalition. This should prove to yourself that because of this, or mainly due to this vengeful and ideological struggle, we are now having a political crisis because the coalition has fallen apart. With regard to the protection of the rights of war veterans and victims of war in Positive Slovenia, we find that, in fact, more than the end of war and fighting is moving back to history, the government has a more restrictive attitude towards the issue of legal protection and protection of war veterans and victims of war. It is longer, more of it and it is pushing them – and that is the question, it is not a question of EUR 37, it is a question of some symbolism. It is a question of symbolism and the government is increasingly comparing the rights and obligations of war veterans and war victims with the rights of other people with disabilities and, above all, treating them as a social category. I don't think that's right. If I spoke earlier about you fighting national liberation fighters, unfortunately, the collateral damage to them is also the war veterans who fought in 1991. As collateral damage was, if you remember with the ZUJF, the 8,000 and then we admitted this error or you admitted – we have always warned of it – that from the mass of 26,000 pensioners we have returned at least 8,000 of the rights they had with legal decisions. And this reference to this economic crisis, I have it, I have to say, a little Res, you don't know anything else. [[...]] Sometimes it was scary that we had to have everything in line with the European Union and whatever it was, it went away, they said the European Union would do it. Now, whatever we do, they say, no, but we have to save and we're there, and the three will fly in, and we're totally economically in the "ass." Based on this saving, it's no wonder they called you a neoliberal policy. This is a neoliberal policy that looks only through numbers and only for numbers, but does not think about the situation of citizens and citizens and that it is necessary to look at not only through numbers, but also through symbolism, especially through the status of citizens and citizens and their rights and freedoms. The fundamental objective of this proposal – and therefore I do not understand this opposition to this bill – is, in essence, to preserve the right to additional health insurance for all beneficiaries, it is said, the war veterans who were recognised by this right to enforce this ZUJF, this contested law, in my opinion, and to retain the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for the category wounded in the war for Slovenia and to ensure the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium for the dependent family members who fell into the war for Slovenia. And what really matters is that this law tries to prevent war veterans and other categories of beneficiaries from permanently forfeiting this right. After all, this marriage is very kind, so I don't understand why you're opposed to it. It only speaks of determining the period during which this right will be frozen or not to be enjoyed. So, since one. 1. 2013 to including the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2,5 % of gross domestic product. I don't understand why we're resisting unless you have any other information. I would be pleased to see the growth of the social gross product is 2.5%, and on this basis we will now have to pay the rights these people have received. I am afraid, unfortunately, that the economic situation is such that Slovenia does not have 2.5% of the growth of the social gross product, and for that reason they will wait and wait patiently until this country comes out of the crisis and then it is only right that these people's rights are returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u174	Dear Member Jakič, I have explained five times in Parliament why this is a permanent measure and not a temporary one, and how this economic growth is – you were gone and you did not hear me! It would probably be good to read the arguments from the magnetogram, and it would be very difficult yet [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] And then you heard the answer to that. [[...]] Look, you've read some neoliberal posture again. It's probably as insulting to me as to our Group of Members, as it is to the DeSUS Group, or to a number of people who voted because it just doesn't. It's not like we were just looking through money at this marriage. That's not true. Why not? I'll give you three basic arguments against it. Because ZUJF and I have failed — or because it does not affect social weaknesses. There are social adjustments everywhere. There we did not look at the numbers, although you must know that the most numerous layers are those close to this social bottom and we did not reach into them, even with this measure. So, is this a neo-liberal approach? It's not! That's the first time. Another time. It is very important, for example, one gesture in this ZUJF, which is a derogation and is very socially oriented, and you have never mentioned it – with the ZUJF, the minimum income is coordinated with the rise in the price of living costs. This is said to coordinate inflation with that lowest income of an individual who is the basis for social assistance. Is that what neoliberals do? Probably not. In short, the whole pack of anchors and measures is not to harm the socially weak. And that was the selectivity of these measures. And one more thing, look. At the beginning of your implementation you mentioned the ideological principle that this is an ideological, I don't know, conflict or whatever that ideological charge has this proposal. Look, Mr. Jakič, everyone who knows me knows that I come from a family where many ancestors have also been on the side of NOB fighters, and I have great respect for this noble period in our history. I also have great respect for veterans of the war on Slovenia, because many of my friends with whom we play football every day or meet for coffee come from these kinds. So, please, don't consider as a proposaler those, as I would say, the solution to attribute some ideological reasons for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u176	Mr Minister, the neoliberal policy of adopting the ZUJF has been visible and has not been defended by you by the Minister of Finance. It was based – now go you magnetograms brother when you send me and, by the way, I listened very carefully to you in my office, so I also mentioned to you the comments that were made in the debate before I discussed that you go see what the ZUJF was based on! Only on the terms of sparring, saving and threatening, on the other hand, how everything will be wrong if we do not accept this, how this country will collapse at the moment, because we will not take away the rights that go to them from 26 thousand pensioners. That is why I am creating my image of neoliberal politics and I have every right to believe that this is a neoliberal policy – but I have read all the classics of liberalism. The classics of liberalism that talk about what sparring is, what is social liberalism that talks about it. As for the ideological account, I have also told you several times, and I have shown that it is an ideological account, that this government has only accepted the laws or solely to account with one segment of this population of these citizens and citizens who did not fit it, and that was historically, and if you put together all your celebrations, at which you have agreed that there will be no more Ensigns and so on, and if you place all the attacks on intellectuals, on the public university, if you put together all the stories that concern pensioners, who are mainly former military officers, unitists and so on, you cannot tell me that this is not an ideological account in this country because it is going on. Because if we wanted to do this, we would come to the National Assembly and say we are retired: all pensioners in this country will receive a 3% lower pension because all pensioners, like all other citizens and citizens, must cooperate and be in solidarity with this country, not take away the segment that you took away from him by 25%, 30% and leave the rest. That wouldn't be an ideological account. If we came up with a general solution that would essentially tantamount to all citizens and citizens of this Republic, not to a selective one. That is why I have the right, and I can say that the ZUJF was a neoliberalism and ideological account with citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Get ready, Mr. Roman Zveglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u178	I think that, in my opening remarks, I have said practically everything that is important. Allow me to take a few more questions out of this debate so that I can really respond briefly and point out once again what is the point. Today, the minister said or said he was opposed to the neoliberal concept of interfering with the rights of the poorest. Minister, you may be right in the workplace when you say that those who are really the poorest have not taken their rights, but it is true that at the same time you have deprived the lower layer or the lower middle layer of certain rights and thus pushed them under the poverty threshold or into that mass of people who represent the poorest inhabitants of our country. These are, I hope, the effects of the ZUJF; the catastrophic consequences of the ZUJF. Well, not just that! Today, you have said that there are quite a few permanent measures in the ZUJF, and thus you are putting the entire government, which at the time advocated that the ZUJF is a necessary measure because of the crisis, on the lie. It is a lie because there are obviously permanent measures in the ZUJF, and as a permanent measure, you also take the only material right, the right to supplementary health insurance, and you place it as a social remedy, which is not right. And with this, Minister, when you say today that it will be obvious that even after Slovenia comes out of this crisis, that is, if I am not mistaken, one of the reasons why you do not actually support this law is that there will also be a need for a permanent reduction in the consumption of the country. A sustained decline in the country's consumption means a decrease in the rights granted by the State to the people, so you said that we would not burden the economy too much once the economy comes out of the crisis, because the economy is the one that creates added value in a society. These are neoliberal concepts and this indicates that we do not have a clear long-term social policy strategy. If you allow me, the Minister and everyone, respected colleagues and colleagues: what we are listening to today, and what we are witnessing today, suggests that the crisis is being used to restructure values. You're using the crisis to restructure values! Once again; when you decide whether to support this law at first reading or not, the law, according to our assessment, corrects the error that has been made with the ZUJF and those people, war veterans, restores the right from the status that the ZUJF has taken from them. Thus, the ZUJF has deleted the permanent right to supplementary health insurance; we are turning this measure into a temporary measure and attaching it to the growth of gross social product, as also recorded in the basic government’s ZUJF, 2.5% growth. When the state comes out of the crisis, I think it is appropriate and fair for these people to have the right to return, once legally granted by law and decision, and I will remind you, those who judge the eyes, once again, of the position of the Administrative Court in this matter. Allow me, Minister, and perhaps also a comment on this matter: the Administrative Court has made it very clear that if, in accordance with Article 15 of the Act cited, the right to payment of health services has already been recognised and so on, this right cannot be withdrawn from them, as this would be contrary to Article 155 of the Constitution. As a result of this view, which has also been put forward and referred to the comment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia – I have previously said, the editor of which is Dr Lovro Šturm – that the Constitutional Court decides on the conformity of this measure. As soon as possible. This is a very similar story, such as those of the 26 thousand pensioners who, according to our estimate of pensions, were unjustifiably confiscated and disproportionately absorbed. And that's what we're talking about! I don't understand, Minister, why the government is at all odds with this law. This law currently has no effect on public finances. Nothing! But I think that these people deserve dignity and respect or a reflection of the state towards these people, who have contributed enormously to our being alone today. I think it is also suggested that they get their right back during a period when Slovenia will be able to pay or pay for this right. This was also their compromise proposal, the proposal of the proposal of the war veterans for Slovenia, that is the concept of solidarity, as I understand it. They will contribute, but they do not agree that the State, after permanently forfeiting their right, under strict conditions, to payment of supplementary health insurance, has undermined their dignity or whatever they have contributed to Slovenia's independence. If you'll excuse me for one more thing. My colleague Tomc, you said earlier, and I saw, you were also upset when our colleague referred to that amount of EUR 300,000 to increase the cost of supplementary health insurance or budget costs. Do you know why there has been a surge in these costs in our country even in the budget? Because of the Public Finance Balance Act! There was a meeting of the Health Committee, opposite the Minister of Health, which justified the transfer of the price of health services from compulsory insurance to supplementary insurance. At that time, it was feared that this would mean that insurance companies would raise supplementary health insurance premiums because they operate on the principle of companies, they were only interested in profit. At the time, the minister assured the meeting that this would not be the case. Fourteen days later, insurance companies raised premiums and pressure on people who unfortunately live in an ever - increasing number below the poverty line, and this burden was simply too great for the municipalities or, as a result, for the state budget!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Žveglič has the floor, and Mrs Romana Tomc is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues! We've been discussing this law for three hours, and it's kind of hard for me. A lot of words have been said before on my account, in my position. While the honourable colleague Han initially said that he would no longer discuss and speak, the denial of bread is usually the most eaten, and in politics this is rather an exception. I do not want to talk about other laws, about other solutions, especially this solution in this law – I well understood that it is written when the economic growth will be 2.5%. Look, in this case, I think it's about getting the law in stock. I've told you before in my opinion that no marriage is permanent. Any law can change, an appropriate number of votes must be collected in Parliament – a joke small. That's what it looks like. I'm still saying it's a supply law. I understand that if we have something, if we can save some money somewhere, not least in the basement even in the fall, when we pick up potatoes, that we have it by next year – such things seem to me but the law is now in stock, but it seems ridiculous to me, unless now it's what you're trying to tell us that we've done ideologically in this marriage if this thing isn't ideological. [[...]] Once again, I find it very difficult to accept these findings, even from personal experience, from the family from which I come to look at these matters ideologically. I'll say one more thing. Does it seem reasonable to you, dear colleagues, that when we have an economic growth of 2.5%, that those who have 300 euros in pensions and those who have, say, 4,000 euros in wages will receive the same contribution because they were involved in the war for Slovenia? If that's social, then I'm a biker – I'm sorry. I don't understand these things that way. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, we can ring the bell too, no problem, 'cause somebody else's already ringing. [[...]] Before that, it was also obvious to me that when a man listens to me, he laughs at me. People have a different sense of humor, and there are different reasons for crying, so sometimes someone goes to tears, but what we want is, yes. There's one more thing I'd like to say around the resources. My colleague, who is not here now, said earlier that concessions from the state forests could cover this matter. Yeah, but there's something we need to know. For decades, the amount of concessions was 4 euros per cubic meter, and the country received it, which was back in 2007, 2008. Last year, thank God, there were already good 13 euros, and for this year they are negotiating 18. It is said that we are going this way and that they will also be gathered from state forests and that the country will also have something from its property and it is also right that the country has its property. I would like to say the following, the right acquired is, of course, a right acquired and I agree here. But it is interesting that in the past people who have lost their rights have also lost their rights. I'll say it again: State pensions! This was also a guaranteed right, and it is no longer there. Not new, even for those who had them, they were mostly farmers with very low but that was only 180 euros, but they had none of it. [[...]] So let's be consistent when we defend one thing, and let's say everything, not just what we like. Now maybe there's something else about thinking Matjaž I believe you don't know what we were thinking when you weren't there. [[...]] From yesterday's debate on the 2011 and 2010 accounts, however, I saw what you were thinking. What do we want? That's right! In the end, I will say again that I do not have these problems so that the veterans do not participate in the national liberation fight, I am a participant in the war for Slovenia, I have already said that I was an officer of the Territorial Defence at the time, I was a volunteer. [[...]] We worked together before the war started, we protected key infrastructure facilities, we monitored the armed transfer of weapons, shipments, ammunition, ammunition, and at that time I really didn't think about any rent. I believed in a better country, but I haven't given up on this country. I will not support the law, for once again, not least we are witnessing that a new coalition will soon be formed in the National Assembly and that you will be able to right this law immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Because it's right that if we want to be consistent, let's just go to the end. Roman, you said that this marriage that we're investing in is like some kind of marriage in stock. That's not true! Then, in your opinion, in the basic law of the ZUJF, there are many things that have been made available, because even the family benefits that have now been deprived of their rights will return to the people when the 2.5% growth is restored. Is that made in stock, too? It's not! And if we're being specific, let's be precise. This is not a social correction, but it is – what we have already said – some gratitude of the state to veterans. All these people who get them, they get almost that pension. If we are, let us be principled to the end and let us say that only matters need to be levelled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Roman Žveglich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u184	Matjaž, I think it's on supply, too. I agree, I supported him, but I'm saying it doesn't seem right. As far as the rest is concerned. Awards. It's not true that people are mostly retired, they're in the vast majority. Those with family benefits of less than €500 have not been affected here. I can tell you that my father is also not affected as an active participant in the national liberation war. I'm stressing again. Do you think it's right for someone who's 50 years old to have 5,000 euros in wages and someone who has 300 to be the same in this case? This does not seem socially correct and fair to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u186	Just one thing, Roman: if we're talking about partisans and if we're talking about veterans. When it was necessary to "stand before the bullet", it was the one with 5,000 euros and the one with 500 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Romana Tomc has the floor, and then there is the opportunity for the Government, that is, Mr Minister, and Mr Matjaž Han, the proposer, to go on a time-sharing course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I'm not going into these ideological conflicts. Basically, I think that all veterans should get not the 27 euro supplement, but the 57 euro supplement; that the children's allowances should be greater, that we should have free education, that we should have much, much more in our country, but unfortunately we don't have and probably won't have any more time, because our financial situation just doesn't allow us to do that. It is true, ZUJF, as it was adopted, believe me, I was one of those colleagues who had the most difficulty taking these measures, and I had a lot to say about this law, certainly. We didn't take him with a light heart, we took him with a very heavy heart. Because this area is on the agenda today, we are only discussing it, but we should be discussing many others; but discussing it is something else to do. I am sure that you will recall this well because, in the previous term, we would not have adopted a law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which has caused so much damage to people who have given up protection supplements. Why are there no more state pensions? All of this was done at the time because you thought it was the right thing to do because things were getting more and more unsustainable. And it's true, they're no better today, but they're only worse. I would answer to a colleague who is no longer with us because her time is running out and she does not feel worthy to listen to others who have any answers to her dilemmas. True, the insurance companies raised the insurance premium, not because of the ZUJF, they raised it because they were too greedy to profit. When the presidents of insurance administrations who have a higher salary than the President of the State and the Prime Minister explain to you that they will be so affected by the additional costs that they will not be able to do so, then you can ask yourself or question whether the rise in insurance premiums was really necessary and whether the ZUJF was just a very convenient excuse. As mentioned at the outset, I think and I hope that the veterans and everyone else who have been harmed by the ZUJF, who have been deprived of their rights, will get you back as soon as possible. You'll probably have a chance soon to show what you're saying today, so vehemently, even with actions. I hope that you will agree on how social policy must be pursued in this country. If I have correctly understood and listened well to my colleague Jakič and my colleague on the other hand, you have a slightly different view of whether things are handled with a balance sheet, linear or from certain less popular measures exempt those who are socially weak, which was the argument when measures were taken in the previous government. There will probably need to be some more principled coordination here in order to be able to lead a single policy. So far, so much in this debate. I think there was a lot to be said on all sides, especially a lot of demagogies, even though we all spoke or all of you said it wasn't there. When this next opportunity comes, we will do otherwise if our economic situation and our budget allow it
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tomc. Furthermore, you have the opportunity to say the word, Mr Minister, then Mr Proposer – they both give up. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Ah, Mr. Puksich, mag. Vogrin. I see a desire to discuss it. So, I'm opening an application for debate. It's eight. I think it's 41 minutes together. Everyone has five minutes and Mr. Secretary has a No? [[...]] Okay, finally, Mr. Secretary. Well, everyone has four minutes and Mr. Secretary has already applied. Four minutes each, and of course another four minutes, Mr. Secretary. The first one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In principle, I believe that it is possible to attach this position to those who have proposed the law and to those who oppose it. I will not go into this debate, but I would point to something else. We use the wrong terminology all the time in our discussions. We say we're saving or we're squandering. We don't save, we don't squander, we just try to balance our income or our expenditure with what we create. The main problem is that we don't create enough. In particular, we are here to discuss how, in what way, and in what way to share: very little is there to discuss how to create. See, this will remain recorded, and 2.5% of economic growth will be achieved in five years and more likely in ten years. That is why much will change until then, and these discussions are almost unnecessary. Since the beginning of the term of office, about a few more than a year ago, I have not seen a serious debate in this Chamber, deepened on how to create more. Ninety percent of the time is spent making sure that referendums need to be limited, that the constitution needs to be changed, that something needs to be taken away or given eventually, and very little about what is of course a fundamental problem. We would not take anything from anyone, and the ZUJF would probably not limit it, because I doubt that the government has such evil intentions if the budget's revenues were not too small. But they're too small because we don't create enough, and that's gonna be our nightmare for a long time. Thus, it would be good to refocus our discussions on how to create more, how to lower taxes, how to make a tax hell, how to attract foreign investors and all similar topics. This debate or similar debate is simple, because we all know so much and we are all right, but they bring nothing at all. The economy continues to decline, gross social product continues to decline, gross social product continues to decline, no trends in Slovenia show growth. Nor will we be able to guarantee what they are doing by law to those who still have the rights guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mirko Brulc [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u192	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u193	Mr. Brultz, just a moment. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, the former Vice-President who chaired this meeting, and when she gave the time available for the vote, I applied, and she also mentioned me by name and surname, I would ask that I do not know why I am not on the list and because I later saw that I am not on the list, I would ask that you allow me these three minutes. [[...]] Thank you very much from the Slovenian Mountains, but I thought we'd just sign up with a raise of hands, we don't know the keys, we'll come to you for instruction. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u195	Now we will make one compromise, in principle it should not become a practice. I hope that my successors will not make excuses for this, the Rules of Procedure here are not clear, but they tell me and I have also noticed that you have made very clear your wish to discuss it, but then you have to apply. Since this affects the number of minutes in the rest of the time, we now have an opportunity, Mr Han has given up, so I will give you his time in this case. Well, Mr. Han leaves you with that option. Well, let's keep this, I hope, an exception. It's Mr. Brultz's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u196	I think that this is the decision of this government and that veterans of the lone war are only collateral damage because they wanted to do so in order that the fighters of the NOB, the interns, the persecutors, and so on, would be clarified, but now this accident has happened that the veterans of the self-sustaining war are here too. In many cases, we know 6,000 five hundred pensions and so on, damage has already been done in this law on ZUJF. I must say that once again I repeat that it is necessary to have a relationship with all those who have been willing to do more for this country than to sit in the chairs and wait for what will happen. And that's not going to work, that's not a social factor, that's a social correction of pensions and wages, and I don't know what it is, but it's a recognition of this country to those who fought for Slovenia in the self-serving war. Therefore, I think it is imperative that this law be adopted in such a proposal as it is written here, whether it is in stock or not, that there is now another problem, and it is important that these ratings occur when we have gross social product growth 2.5. But then, as Comrade Vogrin said, there will be no NOB fighters among the living, because he said it would be ten years from now. So do not be afraid that the country's budget will collapse. Comrade Vogrin, we were here talking about investments, new jobs, everything in the sense that this budget should be increased, but not just shared and reduced. But this government obviously had no other major investment as a demolition of three toll stations; that there were no new jobs, except for jobs in cabinet ministers now, just before the collapse and so forth. There are no new jobs, no spending, no spending, and the perspective is: cutting, cutting, cutting, and then we are where Spain, Portugal, Greece and others are. This bill will not burden the budget in the difficult years in which we are, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Irene Tavčar is not in the hall. Matjaž Han gave up and left the word to Franz Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Re-intervention in the ZUJF, which has changed close to 40 laws, would in fact be unfair in such a partial way. Some of you today referred to the fact that this was already a right acquired and so on. We also have the right to the rule of law, to a social state, and we have the right to work. But what should those 150,000 people who are out of work today say? A large number of these people also had contracts for an indefinite period of time. Companies were falling apart and, of course, none of this is happening. Why are we in such a situation? Why did we actually come into this situation? Obviously because, in previous years, the government coalitions did not act consistently and properly. We know well that, in the previous three-year mandate, we owe the country more than €8 billion. Yesterday we accepted a final account, where there was a deficit of between 500 billion and 700 billion and a debt of 2.5 billion to 3 billion each year. The projected deficit for 2012 will be over a billion. Yesterday, colleagues and colleagues said we owed over 7,000 euros to a four-year-old family. So, where to take it? What do you do? We know it's not. [[...]] But, look, we did social work with the ZUJF, too. You know, I don't agree with those who say that the aggressors are facing the 500-euro aggressors as well as the 5,000 today. That's true, it can be true, but those who have 5,000 can also pay extra insurance. Those who have 500 per family member can still pay. But if he's got less, he can't do that. So you can't say that it's some kind of political discredit or some political law - I don't agree with that! Spain, Portugal, Greece and so on — if Borut Pahor’s government were another year old, we would have a threesome here today. It would definitely have been and a number of measures would have been significantly sharper than those in the ZUJF. With the political crisis that we are creating in this country, unfortunately, we are working against this collapse. Today, the Finances are very clear on what is the alternative offered by some who are preparing a so-called project government. It's gonna get worse! Not only will they not get these 27 euros to pay for this health insurance. You know, the public sector, nurses, teachers and teachers and so on – in short, they may lose one, two or more wages. It can happen! And we are taking this country – those who create this political crisis. That's not good. It's time we really did something for the citizens. That's why I won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you, Madam President. If we had the government of Borut Pahor – a respected Member – we might have listened a little – we would not have had negative economic growth this year, we would not have had 3% and a few percent of negative economic growth last year, but we would probably have a similar foregleam and the number of unemployed under 100,000. Without the destruction of the SDS, today would not be the cost of interest on this country for almost a billion euros, but would save only on this item probably about half a billion euros. And, honourable Member and honourable Members, if we had the Pahor government, we would not be discredited by the people who fought with weapons for us. Any normal country that wants to continue to be a country knows that it is necessary to place the people protecting this country in a special place. But you did the opposite. These people are being discredited. So much for Borut Pahor's government and another government. Of course, it's hard to admit mistakes, but even though we're telling you this, you don't like to hear it anyway, you can't even hear it from the International Monetary Fund, you can't hear it from the Three. Please tell us who else we should bring to explain to you that you are leading the wrong economic and financial policy. There are two financial policies and economic policies. One is the tightening of the belt, the tightening of the belt and the tightening of the belt, and then it does reach a country called Greece. However, it is an economic policy based on job provision and an economic and financial policy that understands what it is to maintain public and private consumption in times of crisis. I don't have any books with me today, and I'll bring you two back to see that some people who have the status of Nobel laureates can even write, not just tell you, but maybe we can read these books together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Franz Jursha. I'm sorry. They didn't mark me. Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The first thing we have to say is that a country that is a social state such as Slovenia has two types of social transfers: one is social protection aid and the other is social protection rights. Social protection rights are those which usually do not take into account the socio-economic situation, and are somehow intended for the universal category because they are pursued by different social objectives. Because our country has already had these rights and will have them in the future, for most of them, it has committed itself to limiting them during the crisis, after the crisis, that is to say when we reach 2.5% of gross domestic product growth, it will release them or return them to a previous base. What we want with our law is exactly that you have the same valet for all these rights. And that will happen once our country is economically and socially consolidated. Isn't it? So you have to really think and say the same things. If you say that these laws are in stock, I would remind you of a whole series of supply laws adopted by the previous Janša government and implemented by Borut Pahor's government. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the evaluation of the Social Security Benefits Act. My colleagues and colleagues, I would still ask that we refrain from commenting a little. Mr Minister has already said that the first accounts show that the law has achieved its objective. In short, it is more targeted at the most vulnerable groups in our society. What else did the ZUJF bring, but it will show a precise evaluation. And believe me, you might be surprised at these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u203	Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u204	In fact, we should say that it is the cause, that it is the reason, why this law is today, actually the adoption of the ZUJF. This has caused injustice to one part of the population, and that is why we today are trying to correct this injustice. It is not that we give the right to someone we have already given him by law because he is socially threatened or not socially endangered. This right has been given to all those who at the time had the status of a conqueror, a fighter, and so on, this needs to be corrected. The fact that those who are at risk today receive this or that they have lower family incomes can, of course, be a part of the truth. And we are talking about the need to correct this injustice for everyone. In fact, it is a positive message that even those who have been wronged, namely, those who are veterans, understand that this moment is a difficult time to correct injustice and agree that one day when we are in a better situation, we do not do so because we are making a law in stock, some say. You'd be right to do that! Mr. Vogrin is right, actually. Today we are discussing for a long time some injustice that we have committed, and we could discuss another proposal; but there are not, ladies and gentlemen! There is no way to improve the situation, no way to open new jobs, how to reduce unemployment, how to help those who are handicapped, sick, hungry and everything else! There are no such proposals. So I would like to remind you of what was said, what would happen if the government of Borut Pahor had been another year. Yes, for another year we would have had such opposition, which has worked so bloodyly and consistently that no legislation that would change the situation has been adopted! Let me remind you that we have done a lot together in this National Assembly to adopt pension legislation, to adopt budgets, to adopt amendments to correct the wrongs in the field of education, but that the lack of social dialogue among those who are working so hard today is enormous and that we do not understand all those on the road who are protesting that something is very wrong, so that we can no longer continue in the field of education, not in the sick, nor in many areas – we are not talking about it! We're bluffing something else or playing something else, not here today, but in general. So we don't see the real picture and we don't understand this message. People tell us that in these areas I have talked about, we need to do something quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u206	Your Honor! I have quite a reservation to this proposal myself, because from the mouth of all those who have signed under the motion, there are very concrete ways to increase public spending in this country. However, I miss very concrete measures to provide money to cover public spending. So how to make money in this country, how to make money, so you can spend it. We very much want to be liked by people who come to parliamentary offices, who turn to us by email or otherwise, and say: return or correct injustice. Respected whether, if two children and two parents in the family, where children receive a $100 allowance, one of the parents loses his job and this allowance is halved. Is this guilt because something that belonged to someone was taken away? I don't think that's the fault. We grant rights by law, and it is right that when money is gone or when we see that it will not be permanent, we will also consider and reach out to such a right. That makes sense. Life is like that. You're saying you're not suggesting that it comes back now, but when it does. Dear ones, when it will be, we probably have a number of other corrections on the priority list that we are obliged to make, even lastly to those who have earned the money by work, but we have now denied it to some extent – I also think of the pensioners among them. And among these I mean those socially disadvantaged, I think other universal policies in the area of family, child protection and so on. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us understand once that the end of this policy is when we constantly invent new rights or return old ones and when we think about fighting a little about how to upgrade created in this country, how to increase productivity, not least. It is not true, I have heard this a number of times today, it is not true that the Government has no measures or that it has no idea how to raise economic activity, how to not least increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We have taken some measures, and I will not list them here, which are going in this direction and have already proved positive, especially when we are talking about the international environment's responses to Slovenia. I recall the previous mandate when we also discuss as the opposition that we have fallen into crisis. The government of Borut Pahor received by the opposition several packages of concrete economic measures to revive and help the economy. On the part of the opposition in one year, we have not received one in this direction, only a full mouth of words, how to share more, and very little, how to create something in this country. Therefore, my respects, I would suggest that when we propose such laws, if we are to recognise certain rights, we also need to know where we are going to get the money for it. For this reason, I believe that many others, in particular those linked to socially disadvantaged families and individuals, have previously – returned this additional health insurance to non-socially threatened veterans.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u207	Good. We conclude the debate. There are no replicas in this time division. The round is only one for discussion, this is according to Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. We've been in these situations before, no replicas, I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. This is the act on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry into and the assessment of the factual situation in relation to the emergence and operation of extremist groups and movements in the Republic of Slovenia, for which it is considered necessary to act in the face of further non-legislative and anti-extremist groups, and the activities of these extremist groups, which are of national, racial, religious or other indiscretions and societies (hereinafter referred to as extremist groups), and the activities of these extremist groups, which are deemed to be cooperative. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 30 Members and Members with the first signed Tamara Vonta, who I give the floor to the National Assembly, submitted a request for parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone, including the empty chair. The positive Slovenia, together with several other members of the other parties, has submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry into the problem of extreme groups in Slovenia. Our purpose is not a political account, but to determine the actual situation; therefore, whether these groups exist in Slovenia, how strong they are and whether they pose a potential threat to the security of citizens of the country and the Constitution. We have been explicitly avoiding this topic, knowingly or not, for two decades, leaving an open question about the existence of such groups in Slovenia, as some indications show exactly that. Thus, a wide range of activities, inviolability, uncontrolled groups, not domestic ones, but also foreign ones, are being opened. The Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency shall not cooperate with the Parliamentary Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, at least not as required by law. There is even a suspicion of the preparation of documents received by the Commission, of course I am talking about the report on extreme movements in Slovenia. Thus, the work of the Owl is becoming increasingly suspicious that the work is to a good extent guided by the political needs of the day, which is, of course, in total disagreement with the law that decides the framework of their work. The issue of extreme movements in Slovenia reopened at the end of November following protests in Ljubljana, which turned into violence. The outbreak of violence is supposed to be a planned action, and according to some information extreme groups are supposed to be responsible for them, even more so, individuals should even be paid for their actions. Finally, something will have to be said about whether it is true that members of the Slovenian Army are working with certain groups of extremists. The problem of extreme groups was dealt with more than a month ago, as has already been said, by the Commission of the National Intelligence and Security Committee, which, inter alia, found that legislation does not allow for effective monitoring of these movements. I know that, of course, legal regulation is not the solution in itself, according to experts, for example, to expose Dr. Goraz Kovacic, the problem of sympathy and possible cooperation between extremist groups and authority. They estimate that the problem lies with individuals within repressive bodies who have extreme right-wing tendencies or who are primarily loyal to certain parties and not to the State as such. If it turns out that within the army some individuals are associated with extremists, the institution must sanction them, including Dr Kovacic. Justice and partly legislation are generally quite tolerant of hate speech and hate action. There has been so far no condemnation of hate speech; the argument of the courts in exoneration judgments is often that there is no proven link between hostile statements and actual violence, they are only violators of public order and peace and not as an act of, for example, racist tendencies, which is in fact one form of propaganda of such groups. We are not talking about the huge numbers of members of such groups or groups, but we are talking about the fact that, with the dismay of state institutions, they get a lot of power and can become a tool of the ruling policy, whatever, and the intimidation of other thinkers. A high-level conference was held in Brussels on Tuesday to discuss how to strengthen European tools to prevent violent extremism. It was based on the work carried out by experts and other contractors within the framework of the radicalisation awareness network set up by the European Union Commissioner for Home Affairs in 2011 to raise the fight against extremism to a new level. Among other things, deradicalisation or programmes that would encourage members of extremist groups to leave such organizations and help them to do so. Which means it's no longer just a criminal policy, a sanction, a firm grip, but some kind of cognitive approach. At the same time, in Brussels, they caution against strengthening extremism, which gives it excellent conditions for life and strength. But first of all, we need to figure out where we are if we are to strengthen the strength of national actors, which is what the European Union is calling for after all. Since World War II, extremist and populist forces have never had as much influence in national parliaments as they do today, among other things the European Commissioner for Home Affairs Malström has warned. It is time to acknowledge that violent extremism has become one of the greatest threats to the security of citizens of the European Union. The investigation is therefore in the public interest, as it is also ultimately a matter of state security. In modern history, extremism is primarily defined as the ideology and actions that are directed against the rule of law and democracy and undermine constitutional and social order, as well as the emergence of nationalism and racism, anti-Semitism, which, of course, are expressed in the final stage of violence. Modern extremism is therefore a social phenomenon that each country must take extremely seriously and thus approach it. The substantive debate on this has only begun with the tragic events in Norway where, as you know, Breivik, the Norwegian right-wing extremist, performed a mass massacre in July 2011 of the members of the under-age ruling Labour Party. Last August, he was found guilty of assault and sentenced to 20 years in prison, with the possibility of extension. Last summer, the director of the German Internal Intelligence Service of the Federal Constitutional Protection Office resigned because his subordinates had destroyed the documentation of a neo-Nazi group that had killed at least 10 people in the past decade and injured 22 people. It turns out that even members of this group were members of this intelligence service. The trial against Beate Zschäpe, accused together with her dead friends from the national socialist underground of killing 8 Turkish immigrants, one Greek and a police officer, and more than 10 robberies they have committed to fund their activities. In the police investigation, plans were also found for 191 sites for possible bombings and other attacks, with accurate maps. Recently, in Poland, the Agency for Internal Security prevented a terrorist attack with a car bomb during a parliamentary session, attended by the President and the Prime Minister. The responsible for the terrorist attack cited xenophobic, racist and nationalistic motives, stating that Poland is led by foreigners and not by Poles. These events have given a kind of warning to security and intelligence services that have focused mainly on religious extremism and Islamic terrorists in recent years, and have completely underestimated the threat of domestic extremism. Extremism is also present in the Republic of Slovenia. We are estimated to have more than 20 extremist groups. The most notorious extremist group in Slovenia is the Slovenian branch of the Blood and Honor International Group. It is a neo-Nazi group that follows Hitler’s youth named Blut und Ehre. Its progeny dates back to the United Kingdom in the 1990s, and some countries have already banned it because of its neo-Nazi views. The operation of the Blood and Honour Group has been banned since 2000 in Germany, since 2011 in Spain, and since last year in Russia. This international group celebrated its 11th anniversary with us last year, and participation in the anniversary was international. It is worth noting that in the countries where we so like to imitate ourselves, these issues are dealt with with with with with the utmost seriousness and responsibility. But with us, it looks like we're having problems with the appearance and treatment of extremism. The non-responsibility or ignorance of this issue of the National Assembly and the working body responsible for dealing with these issues cannot be understood differently from the fact that it is not wanted to be discussed. The Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services convened a meeting on 24 May last year to discuss the agenda of the Issues of Extreme Groups and Movements in Slovenia and to move it several times. It took about half a year for the Government to prepare the necessary material or report, and there was a commission hearing. The competent intelligence service submitted a report to the National Assembly on the problems of extreme groups and movements in Slovenia on three sides. The latter approach suggests an underestimating attitude towards this, as the report minimizes this phenomenon and underestimates extremist groups, including those which, as I have already said, are also banned abroad. There is a predominant assessment that we are also dealing with the problem of militant training of extremist groups, in which members of the security and defence authorities are also expected to participate, or that members of these groups are expected to participate in specific military camps. Uninteresting or unwillingness to face these phenomena properly does not mean that this problem does not exist and will disappear in itself. On the contrary! We should advocate zero tolerance for all extremist groups, and attempts to relativise this problem sound like their latent protection. This is an important topic because it is important to see how security and intelligence services can operate in this area or how they can provide security. The findings of the investigation will allow the development of the necessary guides for appropriate solutions to ensure greater security against the violent activities of these groups. Therefore, the parliamentary investigation must first and foremost identify and assess the actual situation, which could also be the basis for the adoption of existing legislation to prevent the operation and control of extremist groups, namely the legislation governing the establishment of parties, associations and other voluntary associations, public gatherings and public assemblies, the powers of security and intelligence services or amendments to other legislation. In addition, last November's and December's protests in Maribor and Ljubljana, which were directed at individual public function holders and government measures, and the violent incidents caused by the protests by organised groups, which are believed to be extremist groups, have once again pointed out their existence and their operation and their purpose, is to create unrest and violence and chaos. Some media reports suggest that these extremist groups participated in the protests even in agreement with certain public function holders. Therefore, the alleged activities of extremist groups in protests, as well as the alleged political background of violent incidents, should also be investigated. Some public officials used violent protests to condemn peaceful protests, in which protestors expressed their dissatisfaction and protestors referred to negative connotations as belonging to left and right extremist groups and called them hooligans. Refocusing attention on violence rather than on the content of peaceful protests is precisely what is in the interest of those who want to devalue the significance of the protests and mark them as hooliganism, zombieism. In order not to make violence the main message of the protests, attention should be focused on the essence of the protests and not on the organised violent behaviour of extremist groups, as it appears. It is therefore necessary to do everything in order to investigate these incidents, because they take the legitimacy of the protests, and the violent action of extremist groups at protests makes it impossible for people to fulfil or enjoy their constitutional rights to freedom of movement and peaceful assembly and assembly. Citizens and citizens should be allowed to express their views freely and safely anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at public meetings and assemblies, in accordance with the principles of democratic regulation. The task and duty of the State authorities is to allow and enable such conduct to take place in a safe and dignified manner. The purpose of the proposed parliamentary investigation is to clarify and clarify all facts and circumstances, and to assess the actual situation of the appearance and functioning of extreme groups in the Republic of Slovenia, to determine what security risks to national security pose, to determine whether it may be necessary to amend legislation governing the establishment of parties, associations and other voluntary associations, public gatherings and public gatherings, the powers of security and intelligence services or to amend other legislation, to determine whether individual public function holders participate in or support the functioning of extremist groups, to determine whether public function holders are involved in the activities of extremist groups and alleged members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who allegedly participated in the November and December protests in Ljubljana and Maribor last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you so much for this presentation. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Like the first mag. Matthew Tonin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u210	Once again, say hello to all your colleagues and colleagues! There are certainly elements of extremist groups in Slovenia, but you can name them right, left, Islamic or other. Most likely no one can deny it. However, I am sure that their activities are not so spoiled that our security authorities, from intelligence services, the police, to others involved, could not control them. It is also a fact that no service, security and even good control can prevent the operation of the so-called lone wolves, such as Breivik in Norway and elsewhere. Nobody can stop it, but it doesn't matter what they do or how they do it. The legitimacy of the establishment of this commission of inquiry cannot be seen by anyone; you can suggest this, but I wonder what the value of this commission of inquiry or the fundamental question is what this investigative commission will be able to do more than the existing commission for the control of security and intelligence services led by the opposition representative and in which the opposition has a majority. All this subject can be addressed and dealt with by the existing Intelligence Supervisory Commission. Some information we got a little earlier, others a little later. If the purpose of this commission of inquiry is merely to create a media pump and a show, then I think this is the wrong approach. However, if this commission of inquiry is to focus in particular on finding the holes that we now have in Slovenia and which may make it a little easier to operate extreme groups in Slovenia, then I think that this commission of inquiry can also produce some good results. I would be very disappointed, however, if this commission of inquiry were to be born into a media charge against each other, who took pictures of some extremists, at least I have seen pictures that have been circulated over the Internet and where, when individual representatives of these extreme groups are painted both with representatives of the most opposition and also the largest coalition party. But I don't think that should be the point of this commission of inquiry. We will see how and in which direction this parliamentary inquiry will proceed. In New Slovenia, of course, we cannot prevent these investigative commissions, nor do we want to prevent them, but we are convinced that all of this work, which the investigative commission is supposed to do, could be done by the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission without any major difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I think Mr Tonin's fears are too great, and I will try to say in my position to present the opinion of the parliamentary group why and what more this investigative commission will bring. True, in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism there were too many investigative commissions. It is also true that few of them have achieved their purpose, but they have and will be exceptions. Today, according to Positive Slovenia, one of these exceptions is before us. In Positive Slovenia, we are convinced that the Commission of Inquiry on extremist movements and groups in Slovenia is not only an important political but also a security issue; it is a question worthy of parliamentary investigation; it is a matter of national security; it is a matter of the actual state and functioning of extremist groups in Slovenia; it is a question of what legal solutions we need in this area; it is a question of whether our security services are capable of acting; it is a question of whether individual public function holders have participated or are involved in or supported by extremist groups. Finally, the question is whether public officials and even members of the security authorities and the Slovenian Armed Forces are involved in the activities of extremist groups. We are not talking about exoticism, we are talking about the phenomenon and the problem they are facing and fighting in many modern democratic countries, and to which we should have zero tolerance. Extremism does not know how security services, the police, should respond appropriately if they do not have the proper legal basis. While the promotion of racial, religious, political and other forms of intolerance is already banned by the Constitution, such acts are punishable and prosecuted by official duties, we do not have a legal framework for defining extremist groups in Slovenia, but especially for effective action against them. We are not talking about the world view, we are talking about some legitimate beliefs, we are talking about the problem of actions against the rule of law and democracy that undermine constitutional and social order. Experts point out the necessary amendments to the Law on Society and the Law on Public Order, the Law on Police, intelligence legislation. We can look for examples of better regulation in countries such as Germany or Austria, but we must be aware that any labelling of ideologies, actions, opinions or activities as extreme or extreme, always depends on the political centre and moral values of a society. So modern extremism is a social phenomenon that each country must take extremely seriously and thus approach it, especially in the light of acts that can result in violence. In this regard, the greatest attention is given to phenomena, particularly right-wing extremism in Europe. In the European Commission, EU members have already called for a stronger stance on violent extremism, as there is a risk that extremist and populist forces will be strengthened by European elections in 2014. As the European Commissioner for Home Affairs has said, we will not overcome violent extremism by giving in to populist propaganda and demagogism, which is ideological food and oxygen for violence in Europe. It is time to acknowledge that violent extremism has become one of the biggest threats to the security of EU citizens, says the Commissioner. The financial and economic crisis is a real incendiary string for many groups and individuals to spread their ideology and participate or promote violent incidents at protests and demonstrations in the light of discontent. In Slovenia, too, we have seen in recent protests individuals who were not just and only part of the dissatisfied majority, which was legitimate and, above all, peacefully protested against the authorities. Such an investigation by the Commission should be in our common interest. As the philosopher, Dr Boris Vezjak, wrote in the call for the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry into recent protests, it is in the interest of democracy and its protection that we do our utmost to enable citizens to express their views freely and safely on the authorities and state of the country in any place. The task and duty of the policy is to make such an opinion possible and to provide a secure environment for the protestors. Following the shooting of Norwegian extremist Breivik, debates on the rises of extremism were revived throughout Europe: the left, right, Islamic government, as has already been said, or the competent security services of Parliamentarians who supervise these services, denied for months the report on the phenomenon of extremism in Slovenia. Does this mean that we have no problems with extremism in Slovenia? Or let's go to politics: there's no problem, but if there is, let's wait for him to disappear on his own. The fact is that extremism is also present in the Republic of Slovenia. Our country is supposed to be, as some media reported, the desired destination for others, foreign extremist groups, which are expected to organize various associations and meetings with our groups without any problems. When the Slovenian media wrote before the last elections that even some members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were to train extreme right-wing groups in Slovenia, a wave of indignation was triggered, how could anyone write anything like that? One year later, four members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were detained for violence and participated in recent demonstrations. However, Defence Minister Aleš Hojs explained and stated that they all acted alone and that they were not members of extreme groups. They did so in their spare time and were given fines or fines for a misdemeanor against public order and peace. Dr. Iztok Prezelj from the Faculty of Social Sciences asked if extremism in Slovenia was a serious problem, at the end of last year: "Extremism has become a serious problem in Slovenia this year." It is also becoming an obvious security problem, but according to his words, that is, according to Dr. Iztok Prezl, but it is fortunate that such deviations are much more in some other European countries. Before the question was raised, my predecessor said what the investigative commission could offer more. This Commission of Inquiry is also designated to do so or, in particular, to assess the actual situation on the basis of which appropriate legal solutions can also be proposed. Even the director of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, Sova, explained in an interview that he supported the debate on extremism in Slovenia. It believes that it is right that we are talking about left, right, Islamic, radical extremists in our country, and he has also highlighted the need for a normative framework, i.e. an appropriate legal basis for the authorities responsible to act in these cases to be able to act accordingly. In Positive Slovenia, we have no problem dealing with all kinds of extremism, but we do not agree to the creation of facts and to the political intent of balancing various extremisms in order to cover the actual situation. The investigative commission is a constitutional tool of the parliamentary opposition. I am sure that the commission we are setting up today will achieve its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Dragutin Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! We have before us a request to order a parliamentary inquiry to identify and assess the actual situation in relation to the emergence and functioning of extremist groups and movements in the Republic of Slovenia, suspected of acting in contravention of the law and promoting violence and spreading national, religious, racial and other intolerance, promoting the hatred and activities of these extremist groups who allegedly participated in the 2012 protests, the November and December demonstrations in Ljubljana and Maribor. In accordance with the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the item on the introduction of the parliamentary inquiry was included in the first meeting of the National Assembly, that is to say today. For citizens who may not know that, under the Constitution and law, a parliamentary investigation group or commission shall be established, if requested by thirty members of the National Assembly and the subject matter, the content and the introduction of the parliamentary inquiry shall not be voted on. So, a parliamentary inquiry has been actually launched today. The proposalers, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, two unrelated Members and another Member have also revised their initial proposal slightly. They did so on the basis of a written expert opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament. However, not at all important points where the comments of this service were serious and justified. The statements in their opinion also spoke of, I quote, "Extra-exceeding the limits of parliamentary investigation" – of course according to the law. It is our duty to inform the public of this and to inform them that any change in the text could only be made by the investigator. In the accompanying letter, the drafter wrote down the text, quote: "We are sending a copy of the request for the determination of the EPA 886/6 parliamentary inquiry, including the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly." Unfortunately, that's not the case. Unfortunately, that's not the case. This is a fact and this is the investor's responsibility. Therefore, at this point, I would not like to further dispute the gravity of the comments made by the Section of the National Assembly. All that matters is the facts that I have described and must also be made known to the Slovenian public. The first meeting of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services on extreme groups and movements was convened on 24 May 2012. Unfortunately, not in the way laid down in the law. Such conduct continued until September, and at that time we were wasting valuable time to discuss this very important topic. Indeed, we also received the government's report with delay. When we finally begin to address this issue, I regret to say that we have not been able to conclude these discussions in the sole working body of the National Assembly, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Moreover, with obstruction, current investors have made it impossible to conclude this debate, why they are probably the only ones who know. The debate so far on extreme groups at the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services has shown that all members of this Commission have expressed the absolute inadmissibility of any extremism and that only zero tolerance is acceptable to them. We have also found that our current legislation does not allow for effective monitoring of these groups. And as the Vice-President of the Commission, who led it from September to December, said in one of his statements after the end of the meeting that in Slovenia we have both the left, the right and the Islamic extremist groups, as well as individuals with extremist ideas and the level of threat of the country is low. All extremists who promote violence and spread racial, national, religious, or other intolerance and hatred and activity are totally unacceptable. They are equally unacceptable if they occur in closed groups, in assemblies or in the media. This inadmissibility is thus defined by both the Slovenian Constitution and the criminal code. Together, we must take seriously all kinds of extremists that are unacceptable and condemn them unanimously, whether they are left, right, Islamic, or any other. We need to adopt such legislation so that we can deal effectively with these serious societal phenomena, while maintaining a high level of human rights. I hope that this parliamentary inquiry will help us to do so, but unfortunately, I must conclude that so far some Members have not wanted to conclude the debate on this subject on the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. In Slovenia we do not have just one type of extremism and with the same means and methods we have to deal with all forms of extremism that are both constitutionally, legally and socially equally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the phenomena of extremist movements and organisations in Slovenia must be taken very seriously, especially in cases where these movements use violence or call for national, religious, racial or cultural intolerance and hatred. We are aware that Slovenian legislation on the prohibition of such movements is flawed and that in fact we do not have a specialised institution to protect constitutional regulation in this respect, as is the case in Germany, where the so-called Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution. However, both shortcomings are historically understandable. The existence of political police in the former common country and its action against all forms of violation of the critical treatment of the social political system have remained in deep, as well as a bad memory. It is therefore not unusual that the creators of the Slovenian Constitution and legislation gave priority to freedom of association against the prohibition of certain forms of association that could be qualified as any form of extremism or as a combination due to extreme ideologies. A social consensus on what is an extremist movement or group and whether such a movement should be banned because of its existence has not yet been achieved in us. Therefore, according to our assessment, a particular effort should be made to seek as broad a consensus as possible on the definition of extreme extremist groups and their ideologies and on the decision on which the existence of which must be prohibited. In doing so, it will be necessary to weigh thoroughly between the two values protected by our Constitution: on the one hand the freedom to unite and express different beliefs and, on the other hand, the security of constitutional regulation. It is then necessary to determine which part of the country's repressive apparatus should be designated for the operator of the security measures in this area and also to ensure adequate and effective control over its functioning. In any case, it will be necessary to respect the fundamental constitutional principle of proportionality when it comes to the question of interference with constitutionally guaranteed rights or freedoms. If it was an attempt to enter our country of extremism from abroad, it would be Owl's responsibility for such a task. However, in the case of autochthonous extreme integration, the tasks of controlling or persecuting such movements should be assigned either to the police or to a special specialised body, as they know in Germany, and should probably operate under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior or should simply strengthen the security part of the existing Soviet Union. The Owl under the current Law on Owl does not have the authority to control the integration and possible extremist activity of Slovenian citizens, if this is not a matter of association with similar organisations or other interested forms such as this, of course, abroad. In this respect, therefore, the fact that the Government's report on the problem of extreme groups in Slovenia, which was transmitted to the parliamentary commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services, was only on three sides, is not surprising in fact, of course, if it was based only on the data that Sova has or is supposed to have. It is more concerned that perhaps this government report did not contain any findings that the police could come up with. Social Democrats argue that it is necessary to determine how intelligence and security services in the existing legal system can participate in this area at all. On this basis, we will be able to define more precisely what needs to be changed in the legal order, to ensure that citizens and citizens are provided with the necessary security against the integration and operation of extremists and that security services are made clear how to work. However, it is certainly true that we will not come to a broader agreement on what is dangerous ideological extremism in our country, so that some will see only right extremists, and others will interpret the matter so widely that extremists, for example, will be able to include feminists. We Social Democrats are confident that we will have to agree on all the emerging forms of extremism, including the possible phenomena of Islamic extremism in the future. But we will also have to take into account the fact that there may be groups that do not have ideological grounds for their violent or impatient actions and are some kind of paid guerrillas. Groups that can hire different lobbyist networks to play the role of violent protestors – they play, I say – or even strike what can be seen today, for example, in Latin America. We therefore support the proposed parliamentary investigation, in particular in the part that leads to the objective and reasonable preparation of legislative bases for the prosecution of extremist activities in Slovenia, and we want this investigative commission to objectively carry out its work and to be responsible for the possible abandonment of the individual actions of the competent authorities or their possible concealment of relevant information on the basis of indisputable facts and evidence. We feel that it would not be right to accuse anyone in advance or to impose any responsibility on him to control, investigate, or prevent phenomena, if our legal order does not allow it or does not allow it. With due diligence and objectivity, the Commission of Inquiry should also, within its competences, undertake investigations into all the assumptions and indications that have appeared in Slovenian media, various anonymities and, of course, in the very substantive explanation for the Commission of Inquiry. Only in this way will it be possible to determine what the facts are and which public function holders bear in particular the political responsibility for any misconduct. We also expect from the work of the commission of inquiry whether there is a real basis for determining the possible criminal law or other liability of anyone in Slovenia who has violated the existing legal order as part of the problem of extremist groups and should be called to account by the competent state authorities. Nevertheless, in the parliamentary group, we warn the parliamentary investigators that in the National Assembly we have the parent labour bodies who need to address these very issues that we are opening here today. We have the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, we have the Defence Committee, the Internal Policy Committee and all these institutions must carry out their tasks within their respective competences and powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Even the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and Mr Hršak Forgive me, Mr Hršak, you will have to wait a little longer, Mr Pukšič I have let go, today we have no luck with him, but there is always a word at the end of the day, right. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Puksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, after 16 years of work in the National Assembly, it would have been embarrassing if he had not been qualified enough to come to the right word. Around the establishment of this commission of inquiry, as has already been said today, and I cannot help but see that the Commission of Inquiry is an instrument of opposition, which we do not decide on, but with thirty signatures of Members, this is simply established, regardless of whether it has or does not have content. However, I would like to draw attention to some procedural complications that have also arisen in the creation of this material. The request for approval of the parliamentary inquiry was made on 4 January 2013 and the receiving press is also received on 4 January 2013 – this proposal is therefore to be decided by the Commission of Inquiry. Then, at least a few instructions from the Legal and Legislative Service were followed and were 17. 1. sent a ready letter, and left "copy-paste" on the same page again. 1. And as long as you didn't go through the content, you didn't even know what was going on, it's true that the applicants made it a little easier for us to work because at the beginning of the order, both on the other hand and on the third hand, we were able to identify conflicting views or positions that are not even in line with the current legislation. In the beginning they wrote: "... that orders a parliamentary inquiry to determine and assess the actual situation in relation to the appearance and functioning of extremist groups and movements in the Republic of Slovenia, which are suspected to be in breach of legislation". Here I immediately asked myself, with what legislation, if we do not have legislation on these extremist groups and on all these elements. But then they rectified, or I say they're contradictory, and on the third page, they wrote that extremism doesn't know our legal order. So much, I'm going to say, in the army, we said "to deceive the enemy" about these dates around January 4th. For starters, that's it. I will focus on relying on the position of the Slovenian People's Party on the seven points pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. On this basis, I will also give the position of the Slovenian People's Party, which concludes that this Commission of Inquiry is not necessary, but – as I said – we have no formal opportunity to prevent this, and that more consistent work should be done in the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, since it has a majority, together with the President, of the opposition. If we were to do what they wrote in the request on the other hand and on the third hand, this means preparing and amending legislation and proposing as the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, in which there is at least one member from each parliamentary group – we know that this is also an intervention in human rights on the one hand and on the other hand security – this would be a proposal from the parliamentary commission of all parliamentary parties and we would not be able to politicise it in the National Assembly, as it always does and whether such or a different government is, the opposition will always be politicised by government proposals to amend such legislation. Then I will also rely on Articles 39 and 63 of our Constitution. If I start. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to prevent the emergence and functioning of extremist or extreme groups in the Republic of Slovenia that promote violence and the spread of national, religious and other intolerances in our country - I mentioned earlier how our legislation in this area is. Members of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, of which I am also a member, can also speak thoroughly about the fact that I have participated in all meetings and also visits, the problems of the definition of extremism have been raised in the context of the debate by the Slovenian Intelligence Agency or by the government report on this phenomenon. Positive Slovenia or the applicants of the parliamentary inquiry request have four members and a president in the supervisory commission, so you have a majority, you can propose all possible controls and reviews and solutions in the form of appropriate additions to Slovenian legislation. You didn't do it, you left the session open, you obstructed it when it was necessary to take conclusions and measures. By the way, with the then Vice-President and members of the coalition, we had a majority and we could also vote our conclusions, but from the rightness that in this committee – as well as in one of the others I am leading, we would not vote for the Slovenes in place and around the world – because we are behind closed doors and we can talk honestly and honestly, we did not go this way. That is why, as colleague Mate pointed out, this matter is still open. Of course, it bothers me that when such abandonment occurs, there are populism statements and motions in front of the cameras and making false statements. So now you're putting together – I'm not going to, I'm going to skip it. With regard to the examination of extremist groups acting against the Constitution, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that the divisions between the constitutionally protected Article 39 and the category of freedom of expression in Article 63 of the Constitution are simply not to be drawn. For citizens and citizens to know what I am talking about, Article 39 of the Constitution speaks of freedom of expression. So: "Freedom of expression of thought, speech and public appearance, press and other forms of public information and expression is guaranteed. Everyone can freely gather, receive, and spread consciences and opinions. Everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature...", unless otherwise specified in the law. 63. Article 63 speaks of the prohibition of the promotion of inequality and intolerance and the prohibition of the promotion of violence and war: "Constitutionally, there is any encouragement to national, racial, religious or other inequalities and the spread of national, racial, religious or other hatred and intolerance. It is unconstitutional to encourage violence and war." Around these two articles, which are enshrined in the Constitution, a proposal for a legislative amendment in this area should be drawn up within the Parliamentary Commission for the Intelligence and Security Service. Well, let's do it in a row. The Intelligence and Security Supervisory Commission has already heard of this dilemma by the competent services. It was also explained where the problems related to the urgent amendment of legislation could allow security authorities to monitor or control such forms and actions. The Supervisory Commission has been explained that the problem of so-called extremism is a phenomenon that has been taking place since 2003 and for which the competent services have found that they do not have the appropriate legal basis. After the first major demonstrations in 2010 before the National Assembly, the authorities of the police and the Ministry of the Interior began to deal intensively with the legal solution to this issue. It is about amending legislation in a very sensitive area; it is also very sensitive to the professional public. We like to see or find that not only politics is on two shores, but many times it is also a profession. It is a matter of changing the powers of the police. Yesterday we were able to hear about the changes in these two laws, how we had different views. Such changes are always accompanied by strong responses from both the professional and the political public. Actually, that's the problem. All of this is known from the deliberations of the Supervisory Commission. Therefore, it is not necessary to set up another commission of inquiry. Specific actions are needed. So, what do you have to do? In the legislative process, insert the text of a law that will first define what extremism is and what extreme groups are, that is to say, the first. Secondly, the remaining amendment to the legislation will be followed by the competent authorities by such groups and individuals who appear and if they do occur. But this will not be done by the Commission of Inquiry, because the tasks of the Commission of Inquiry are completely different, i.e. identifying the political responsibilities of public officials. Next. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that the subject of an investigation in the work relating to the examination of the activities of extremist groups. It is the activities of extremist groups that have been taking place mainly in recent months, that this is a smaller matter, that it is in fact more necessary to determine why, how it comes from, or from a broader perspective. So, organized groups that we believe are extremist groups. In this case, there is a contradictory view, and in the reports of the competent authorities, which are partly described in the explanation of the request for the determination of the investigation, it appears that such findings cannot be found. This part has now been corrected in the supplementary proposal, in part. The applicants therefore relied on the information they received from the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, and we did not reach such findings on the Commission. It would be easier to take a decision to set up this commission of inquiry if the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services had previously completed its work on extremism and on demonstrations which it has also dealt with. Only after her report has been submitted could the Positive Slovenia, as proposed below, propose an investigative committee on the issue which has not been sufficiently resolved and clarified in the Supervisory Commission, but not that a new Commission is now being set up in the middle of the work of our Commission itself. What, then, is this message to the public and the services that are under the supervision or supervision of the committee? They will not take you — and all of us — seriously. This simply, colleagues and colleagues, is not estrad to take pictures of you taking pictures and setting up cameras, it is a matter of overseeing the activities of intelligence and security services, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. It is therefore very serious matters, but not so that we can wave and for any dissatisfaction of any of these organisations, which is supervised by the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, unless you are satisfied by the opposition, because you have one or more of them, you will, for each segment, for each director, individual or whatever I know, set up an investigative commission. The Legislative and Legal Service shall alert in respect of the first and second subparagraphs of point 2 of the request submitted relating to persons associated with individual public function holders. The legislative and legal services also consider that the limits of the parliamentary investigation are exceeded because, under the first Article of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, this is done to establish and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions alone. This means that a parliamentary inquiry can only concern determining the possible involvement and responsibilities of public function holders for possible irregularities and not persons associated with them in any way. What is the purpose of the proposaler for the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry? There is no other way to conclude as discrediting or drowning in matters that are not actually there, both in all these organizations that we have control of — from the police, the Owl, and so on. I hope this work — probably not the purpose, or was it? – that all demonstrators to this commission of inquiry are already extremists. So this is where the question is seriously asked. In order to ensure the conformity of the subject matter, the legislative and legal service considers that comments on the subject matter should be taken into account in order to ensure the purpose and scope of the investigation. According to the 2nd indent, the purpose of the investigation is to determine whether extremist communities in the Republic of Slovenia threaten national security. In 2010, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, prepared by Dr Ljubica Jelusic, then Minister of Defence, where extremist movements and organisations have already been classified as national sources of threat and risk of national security. From here on, the next step is to amend the legislation, where, of course, we must take account of paragraphs 39 and 63 above. So, the basis for further work is, but, once again, in my deep belief within the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. This is no work for an investigative committee, but I do know how these things work. Members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission have been informed that extremism threatens national security and can pose a threat to any democratic society, which is very accurate. We discussed this at the time of the consideration of the annual report and other documents transmitted to the Commission by the Government and the competent services. There is no need to discuss this further, which is essentially a fact. However, solutions are needed that do not require an investigative commission to discuss the facts already identified. Firstly, effective measures should be taken to enable the competent national authorities to work effectively, and this is also what they told us on the Commission. This has been repeated several times both at the meetings of the Supervisory Board and also in all the controls carried out by the authorised group at the headquarters of the competent supervisory services. The legislative and legal service also notes with regard to the limited requirement for an investigation that the subject matter of an investigation relates to the monitoring of extremist groups and the subject matter of an investigation into the activities of extremist groups, not to mention the case of Maribor-Ljubljana, but to this as a general phenomenon. If I go to the conclusion, what is the purpose of the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry? As I began, I can also conclude that Mayor Zoran Jankovic and Member Branko Grims took pictures with a group of people who, according to the definition of the proposer, were extremists – there are no legal definitions on this; therefore, there are no reports and proposals for conclusions on the debate and decision in the National Assembly. Will the investigators in this investigation be Mr Branko Grims and Mr Zoran Jankovic? What about the principle of constitutionality and legality, especially respect for human rights and freedoms? What will the Institute of Information Commissioners and other guardians of human rights and freedoms say about this? Given that the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, in which Positive Slovenia has the majority and the President, as I have already mentioned, has been dealing with this issue for a year, it occasionally interrupts it by means of dramatic controls and press conferences, resulting in a request for the establishment of an investigative commission which will identify the known facts from the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The latter has all the powers and powers under the special law on parliamentary control, if there is not sufficient response from the competent authorities to investigate and propose legal solutions to the National Assembly and the Government; and this would be the only smart proposal.We will now receive in essence another commission on the same issue and will be led by a representative of the same political party. Now, here I can ask myself, someone is going to get their own office, professional staff, and an addition to running an investigative commission. If that's what this is about, then of course it's wrong. But maybe it's about setting up this commission to have someone get this functionary supplement. Why else would one parliamentary group lead two specific committees on the same subject and issue? If nothing else, I hope that at least this commission of inquiry will be led by someone from the Social Democrats. In recent days, Mrs Alenka Bratušek has spoken extensively or has been closely monitored by the media about the so-called project government and has probably forgotten to write down the request for the establishment of this parliamentary commission of inquiry among the main projects of this project government. Because, as I've heard from my point of view, this is one of the most important actions in this country. But that's not gonna make it any better. On the part of the Slovenian People's Party, we propose: not to establish this, but this, as I have already said, is not in our power, it is in the power of the proponents, and to be carried out on the committee for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services, together with a professionally thorough definition of these extremist phenomena, to prepare amendments and additions to the legislation and to submit this legislation to the National Assembly, with some human rights beings being clearly changed, but I say it would be right for thieves not all to be considered to be deleted in any case, as we have recently had in court. This would therefore be a proposal to amend this legislation by this Commission, in which we participate all parliamentary parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. A little more attention, please, for the position of another Group of Members. Mr Hršak, please, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Modern extremism is a social phenomenon that each country must take extremely seriously and thus approach it, especially in the light of acts that can result in violence. And although our legal order of extremism is not known as such, events at protests in Maribor and Ljubljana in the last two months of the past year prove that extremist groups do not only exist in us but also work. More than 20 extremist groups are estimated to work in Slovenia. Even more, there are expert estimates that Slovenia is also the preferred destination for foreign extremist groups, which, without major problems together with our groups, organise meetings, assemblies and even militant training. However, this issue is not discussed in the public eye. Politics has an underestimating, even ignorant attitude. Although Slovenia is a relatively safe country, this does not mean that the existence and functioning of extremist groups can be neglected and underestimated, because then there will be events like those of last year's protests in Maribor and Ljubljana, when extremist groups used peaceful protests of citizens for their purposes. Because of the lack of research on the phenomenon of extremism, we also have unknown links between the policy and the groups mentioned, or we can talk about these links at all. Insinuating that politics, left or right, is linked to extremist groups is, frankly, a fear of excitement. If these hints prove to be true, the security of our country is only a false belief in which most citizens and citizens believe. I believe that the parliamentary investigation will help to identify and assess the actual situation, while at the same time this will be the first step towards confirming or rejecting the belief of Slovenia as a relatively safe country. It is also necessary to investigate the functioning of extremist groups in protests and the alleged political background of violent incidents. It will only be possible to determine whether the policy manipulates citizens at this level and wants to evaluate the significance of the protests and to deny people the right to exercise constitutional rights to freedom of movement and peaceful assembly and assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Hršak. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first is Mr Srečko Meh, followed by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u222	Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps the area we are talking about today is extremely sensitive and can also be the subject of individual treatments and exploitations. I will try to say in three steps what I imagine and how this parliamentary commission of inquiry could work. First, it is the security issue of the Republic of Slovenia and the question whether security services work as they should, whether security and intelligence services work and use all legal means and whether we have effective control. First, I should say that it is necessary to amend and adopt an appropriate law that will identify what extremist groups are and allow the authorities working in this area to work successfully. This is not the case today and should therefore be done in an emergency. The second thing I would like to say is that the policy, in the sense that Mr Pukšič and today someone else in this Chamber have said that this policy should not be used for its daily accounts or any other set-up or exposition, and that policy should ensure that the services they are able to operate in this area and that they are adequately controlled. If we are to provide work to the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, we should be aware that this is not a commission such as other committees and commissions. That this is a commission that has a continuous and permanent work that should monitor operations every day and should have all the conditions for work, but today it does not. Therefore, the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission does not have good working conditions, does not have enough staff, nor does it have the possibility of having meetings when it is actually necessary. The practice that the Commission is unable to work or that it is difficult to work during the meeting of the National Assembly, and the practice that it is necessary to book premises far further, in fact makes it difficult for the Commission itself to work. Therefore, at the College of the President of the National Assembly – or at the moment of the Vice-President – conditions should be agreed and made possible for this Commission to work, because if we do not have those conditions, then we will also have a hard time working on this committee. The second question I would like to discuss is that the parliamentary commission of inquiry on extremism, if I simply simplify it, I am talking about the parliamentary commission that this work of this commission should in some way be aligned with the work of the investigative commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services. This coherence of action should also be so, because the area we are going to talk about can be so limited that we can tell the public and what we cannot say to the public that we should be very sensitive about it. I think that the public has to be informed of all things in detail, but we must not ignore this fact, so that uncontrollable information or unnecessary information can endanger the work of the services and individuals working in this area. If we do so, then we will have problems with the operation of individual services and the peace these services must have. I think that's why we need to act extremely delicately in this regard. Of course, it is essential that all supervisors, heads of service, including the Slovenian Government, or anyone else take the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services seriously, responsibly and provide the necessary information. This information is necessary if we want to carry out our work, whether it is an investigative committee or whether it is a commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services in this case, only when we are talking about these two points of contact. From this point of view, in some ways my appeal to the delicate conduct of such a sensitive issue is that we are talking about extremism because today at least two or three of them have talked about the fact that there are, of course, extremist groups, which we have definitely not proved in such detail in Slovenia, because we do not even have the law to tell which are these extremist groups. However, there is a need to say about these extremist threats, and we have also made it public that the threat in Slovenia is relatively low, that it exists; and that it exists is actually a message of all this. If we are trying to ensure from here on out what all those who will work in this area need to know, then it seems to me that we must ensure proper work for one commission and another, of course also for the parliamentary investigative commission. And once again, I would like to highlight what I said at the outset. The operation of services that protect our country, which will also address the issue of extremist groups, is an extremely important and security issue that we need to talk about with extreme tenderness, but above all we can talk about on the Commissions, but we cannot speak in public, and I fully agree that we must take care of this. So, once again, I think it's an extremely important question. If we do not have all the conditions that the Commission must have for the Commission to work, but this time I am talking about the commission of inquiry, then we will have a commission for the Commission, there will be no results, there will be a lot of mutual accusations or accusations, and there will be no results. We need to provide the right data, we need to know what really needs to be done in our country for our security, we need to prevent such phenomena, and on this basis we need to work whenever we speak as representatives who have this role and this task to ensure that our citizens and citizens are safe at this moment or during this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. It's his turn, by the list, Mr. Roman Jakič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me begin by saying that to any extremism, of course, except sports, I have zero tolerance, and I expect that this country and the authorities in this country will have a similar zero tolerance to extremism – of course we know what we are talking about. In fact, it is a complex social phenomenon that can be defined as ideology and thus related facts that are far from the political centre in society and represent a shift from the common moral standards prevailing in individual societies. Here I agree that extremism is neither a legal phenomenon nor does our legal order know it, as it is known in other countries in Europe, where some such extremist groups are also prohibited by law. In this modern history, extremism really marks ideology and the related actions against the rule of law and democracy and the undermining of the constitutional and social order., We have a very clear article in the Constitution on the prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance and on the prohibition of promoting violence and war. In fact, we cannot avoid the fact that this is a social phenomenon that each country has, and that every country must take extremism very seriously, some cases of this extremism were talked about by colleague Vont and events, from Breivik to events in Poland. Of course, such events, even if they are abroad, are a kind of warning to security and intelligence services that they must also say something about it. It is true, however, that in recent years such services have focused primarily on Islamic terrorists and have completely underestimated the threat of domestic extremism or extremists. The undeniable fact is also that the most present and active right extremism in Slovenia is, and I will not go to this right, left. As I said, both to the left, right and Islamic of any kind, except sports, I have zero tolerance. Many discussions were or are right to have set up this commission of inquiry, or it is right for the Commission to carry out this work to oversee the intelligence and security services where we have the current opposition for the majority. Look, let me say a little chronologically, given that I was challenged at some of the shows, especially my colleague Matthew. Indeed, this same opposition has already demanded on this committee, in May, that there be a debate on the problem of extreme groups and movements in Slovenia, perhaps we were too careful or too politically sensitive and we called it right extremism, because in fact it is the most perceived both at home and abroad, but we have taken very seriously into consideration the fact that we will complement this and that we will talk about all kinds of extremism. We waited six months for this material to come, but it didn't come. In fact, the members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission were indignant about the government's report, as it forwarded this report on three sides. In a way, we were or was also surprised that the lack of interest or unwillingness of the government to deal with them properly does not mean that this problem does not exist and that it has disappeared. On the contrary, it is true that I cannot talk out of these reports, and this is what I am most concerned with, if I am quite honest, speaking out loud, because this report is a secret, but the Government's thoroughness, and I can, in dealing with this issue, illustrate only quantitatively, namely, the religious extremism of the government gives one paragraph, the right extremism of two paragraphs, and the left three paragraphs in this report. I could even say that more analysis was able to read in Slovenian newspapers and better analyses of the state of extreme and extremist groups and individuals in Slovenia, as was the ability to read in a report which could be read as a Member and member of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services in fact expected the Government to give a detailed report in this area. Nor can I get rid of the feeling that the Government has deliberately delayed the preparation of the report and that it has prepared it in a form in which it has politically balanced the results or made its assessments that minimise the phenomenon of right extremism in Slovenia. I must also say that the Government, in some way with insufficient care, is addressing the problem of militant training of extremist groups, in which members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are also expected to participate, and regardless of the fact that the previous Minister of Defence has said that the latter are doing so in their spare time and that we are not worried that they are not doing so during their working hours, which is what I must say with such a statement, I do not agree. And I cannot get rid of the feeling that we have received a report from the members of this Commission in such a way that the Government has tamed it, the report mentioned, because of its own political interests, but perhaps this feeling bothers me. Why we want to have an investigative commission – already answered by colleague Melita Župevc: because this commission can propose an appropriate legal basis because the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services has nothing to do with the involvement of public officials in the cooperation, preparation, training or cooperation with extreme groups. Let me basically finish with a quote from my colleague Matthew in one of the newspapers or weeks, but it was from that press conference when he spoke about these events at the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. I must say that he confirmed to me exactly what I am saying that the topic of extreme groups is very important, he said that this topic is important primarily for, and I quote, "to identify the relative facts in this area, to find out how services work, and also to find out how these groups are fighting, to identify the degree of threat, and to set a course in which to work in the future and to ensure greater security". End of quote. I fully agree with my colleague Matei, in fact and for this reason this is also an investigative one, and it seems to me that we must primarily view it as a political and security issue or the security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the threat posed by extremist groups, and I am therefore pleased that we have been able to collect thirty signatures so that such a group or such investigative group can do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Mate, you haven't discussed and you can't replicate. When you discuss it, you will be able to replicate, but by then, unfortunately, not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But we're moving on. It's mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Well, I must say that I am known in the parliamentary group for two positions, where I have never been actively involved before, that is, I have a very reserved attitude towards all investigative committees because, in the work of the investigative commission, they cannot boast of any excessively effective success, and secondly, I have never participated in a work body entrusted to it. But this does not mean that I have a general attitude towards the proposal of this commission of inquiry, which I think is special in two moments; the first, generally expressing dissatisfaction with the circumstances which enable the supervisory commission to work well. This is the first circumstance, and here I think that everything that has happened with the reports, but now colleague Jaklič has made it clear by the paragraphs, I could count the words or the lines, it seems to me that you do not consider any report, if it is only right extremism, that you have to wait so long to find the left or then we will seal our eyes before the fact that some form of violence in society is happening if we cannot balance it properly? [[...]] This seems unacceptable to me, and this is the first position in which I change my attitude towards this requirement. The second question is that I sense the rise in violence itself, which has its roots in not accepting different attitudes and different viewpoints in society or in differences between us. This is worrying and I do not care if it is right or left extremism, but for a country such as Slovenia, which was considered to be very safe in it, I am moved, if it is possible to detect a group, organised by a group that is accounting with people who feel the intolerance of such a level, that it gets the dimension of an attack on an individual. Now, I think it's very interesting what our other view of this is, how successful the police have been in finding the perpetrators. Did anyone among us count how many cases of assault on an individual carrying a certain variety, how many of these attacks have the police been able to investigate, identify their causes? That seems a very important question to me. Most of the time, the victim was identified, even treated, and the cause did not. Well, what's happening at Cafe Open to me is that level of inadmissibility, I've said it in public several times, but what's happening here is particularly frightening; for example, there's this group that went to protest before a court to influence the sentence of judgment with its protest. And if we look at how extremism is defined, it is extremism, as much as we can talk about it as it is always justified or based on non-acceptance, on a violent attitude towards those who bear any distinction, or national, racial, or any variety. In particular, I became aware of these things when in mid-summer years ago, two groups attacked a group of foreign citizens with sticks and were women among the beaten. Why am I talking about this? My policy experience is that women in politics were not involved at all in the first place and we were safe. Then they were perceived as a fairly visible group, and they also started attacking them, but, say, even in these physical attacks on different people, it also appeared to me, and it seems to me that we should not close our eyes before that. What Dr. Jelusic said before is my last experience. What do we define and how do we define extremism? At the session of the Commission for Petitions and for the sake of attention, human rights and equal opportunities were identified by feminists as extremists. Now I would ask if it was a lively coincidence that I explained here the day before in my debate that I was a feminist, and it seemed to my colleague to say that feminists were extremists, because they came from another political field, this is now a matter of speculation, but see that feminists are marked as extremists, is stupidity and rudeness, or ignorance of the greatest dimensions, because feminists did not engage in any violent conflict, no war, and they helped to make society more democratic. And if that bothers anyone, then I can't undo this pain of his because there are things that need to be actively taken care of again, even though things are self-evident in nature, but there is nothing self-evident in society. Now that men are still detained by feminists, I understand, but I find it difficult to understand that such a designation comes from female species, especially after I can say that after many years of efforts, the percentage of women in the political life of Slovenia has finally grown slightly, with regard to parliamentaryism and has been very backward in terms of the executive branch of power. A single minister in the government alone cannot be an excuse for the government being weak, because they can set conditions, but cannot be an excuse for such sub-representation of women in politics. Actually, there's someone else I'd like to share my experience with. When I was a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we discussed not extremist or extremist groups in the Council of Europe, but also terrorist groups. Similar difficulties have been encountered by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to define or frame a group, as mentioned in our situation, and have come to the conclusion that for one group of terrorism, perhaps there is a movement for another group that has purely acceptable social objectives and achieves them in a socially unacceptable way because it is linked to violence. I believe that the emergence of extremist groups should be taken seriously, even if they are camouflaged in the cheering groups and are part of the cheer groups, as they were at the outset, that this was a serious problem, that it should be dealt with and that the purpose of this parliamentary commission of inquiry is to be supported primarily because it has also set itself for the task of drafting or amending legislation that would provide the basis for dealing with this. Once again, I say, by force now, with the light of a white day, to seek out the anti-pollution of some extremism, so that we can begin to deal with this phenomenon at all, but it seems unacceptable to me. What I see for myself, what I read from the media, I must say that Slovenia is more or less characterised by those groups that were once represented by the obituaries, or those groups that are Blut und Ehre groups, or those that have the basis of Nazi or neo-Nazi ideology. However, that Slovenia is also involved in this network of online communications, but I think it has shown the situation with regard to Norway and with Breivik and that these are things we must be careful about. Even these different groups that are trained and in which training is supposed to be involved – the assumption is, I do not say so – even those who are professionally involved in the training of individual skills do not leave me very calm and convinced that this is something that we can think of. In any case, I remember just another case of extremism when we talked about risky behavior, we also talked about extreme sports – remember how difficult it is to define them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to approach every problem in practical terms. When the proposal came for the establishment of this parliamentary inquiry, I wondered what negative consequences this could actually have. I just gave myself an answer — none. This means that I do not understand the opposition to such a parliamentary investigation, but that we are probably all in something: it is good to live in a country that is safe. Security is guaranteed in several ways, of course, and the reasons for danger, intolerance, extremism and so on must be addressed in particular. If the purpose of this parliamentary group or investigation is to do so, then it is fine. Today we are discussing this matter. I think that tomorrow or the following days, at the proposal of another parliamentary political party, we will be discussing the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry into the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system. A practical approach. Of course I'm up for both investigations. Since the proposer is one group, the other opposes, the proposer will be the first to oppose – we are in a vicious circle. For our greater effectiveness, I propose that we move from the very bureaucratic nonsense of the past to practical solutions. This means that we agree that each parliamentary party has, within one mandate, an unquestionably right for one parliamentary group or to propose and conduct one parliamentary inquiry. We don't even have to discuss this in particular, and we've saved a lot of hours of wasted time. I have calculated that the debate, if all 90 Members were here, but in principle they are in Parliament and in fact, 90 Members times 4 hours is 360 hours, that is two months of one person's work – what else are we doing at this time! In this way, we are ineffective, so I suggest that the new or provisional President of the National Assembly actually introduces a slightly more logical solution so that we do not turn around in a vicious circle and see whether Mrs Potter is right or not, perhaps the purpose of both parliamentary investigations is not to harm anyone. [[...]] That is to say, if a parliamentary group, a parliamentary party believes that it would be good, a large number of these parliamentary investigations should be limited, but that each political party would not have the right to one, but I find it very controversial. After all, if we come out of the Constitution and from the way Members are elected, that we are representatives of the people, then we have the duty and responsibility to take care of those things that we think are wrong or to point out negative phenomena in society. So I propose, let us support this parliamentary investigation and support without unnecessary investigation the one proposed by the party, I think that the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u230	Respected and respected! I believe that the framework for democratic co-existence is the framework in which it is possible to develop tolerance, tolerance, respect for one another, and that this is also the framework that enables real progress to society, our inter-human relations on the one hand, and of course the achievement of our economic, social and cultural goals on the other. In this respect, I would like everyone to know how to adopt the constitutional framework on which this country is founded, as a framework allowing for this different coexistence and which also allows for legitimate differences between us. I've been detained by the investigative committees myself. In the history of this House, I think there are only two who have reached the end of their mission: the Moget Arms Commission and the Melita Župevc Bat Commission. This, I think, is also the only one who has actually finished her work with the report. But I'm asking you what happened to the results of one and the other investigative commission. Nothing until today! However, much effort has been put into this work, a lot of knowledge, a lot of research, and last but not least, those involved in these investigations have been subjected to great stress all the time. Both of them who led these investigative committees have all the respect in my eyes. However, I would like to point out that in the process that is taking place in Slovenia, which started with the Maribor protests and from where the human uprising has spread to many other places in Slovenia, however, one positive charge. People have said that they are dissatisfied with the state of things in this country and that they are taking this country back into their own hands. All of us can rightly be dissatisfied with the course of things where we, as a country and as a society, have come as a community after twenty years of our independence. I am absolutely opposed to all attempts to give people who participated in the uprisings that were said by participating in peaceful demonstrations: we are tired of giving us such and different extremist markings. Even more strongly, I would like to oppose the attempt of political forces or authorities to possibly try these uprisings, to exploit this legitimate democratic expression of human dissatisfaction with organised extremist groups that have tried to seize these uprisings. This is worth all our judgment. But it is true to stress that it is the beginning of all of us in this society to act with patience and to show respect for one another here, among us. Here between us, we must condemn every inappropriate word and every step that does not contribute to us as a community by the example that shines from this House, showing that we have consciously decided that we will be a democratic, open and patient community. And I'd like to contribute to that myself. I do not believe that a better legal definition can solve this problem. I think that we must pay attention to what is happening between us on an inter-human level and condemn what does not belong to a democratic society because it undermines its constitutional foundations and is directed against the integrity and dignity of each and every one of us. Sanjin Jašar is a Maribor activist who tries to express his protest against the events of the Maribor municipality with a peaceful protest at the premises of the Maribor City Hall. That's why he was even detained. Because he demonstrated in a public space owned by all citizens and citizens. According to some, he is an extremist — not to me! So the solution is to start acting decisively differently. I recognize this right for the applicants, and I want them to lead the investigative commission successfully and to refrain from any attempt by all political actors to make this investigative commission a field for political accounting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Zupevec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What my colleague Frangež said is indeed a problem for investigative commissions or what happens after the investigative commission has finished its work at all. It is also true that in the history of investigative commissions in Slovenia there were very few who finished their work. It is also true that the expectations of what law enforcement authorities would do, other services in that country, were probably too great. I myself have led such an investigative committee, I would not like to talk about it today, and I must say that I myself had high expectations about this, given the findings of this investigative committee, given that it has also adopted a final report, which is rare in this National Assembly. I expected the law enforcement authorities to continue their work in some way or that the stories we opened up on this commission of inquiry would reach some epilogue. It happened that at least some year after the commission of inquiry had finished its work, there were findings or stories that seemed to be exotic earlier, I will give just one example. There has been a lot of talk over the past few months about money being poured into various holding companies and moving to different locations, so that the commission of inquiry, which I led alone, has also dealt with some issues, which have then become part of some public discussion that have not yet reached the epilogue in court, but have triggered some things. I think that's good, too. I am pleased that I have not seen any major opposition to this parliamentary inquiry today. That's not what this is about, but it's an order act. The thought I sensed was essentially one of a kind. This is what this Commission of Inquiry can do more than the committees or the Commission of Intelligence and Security Services can do in the National Assembly. My personal opinion is that he can do a lot. The appeal to the chairman of this commission of inquiry is aimed at including a wide range of experts, as the commission of inquiry is determined by the law on parliamentary investigation and also by the Commission with a view to any legislative change in a particular area. If the Commission of Inquiry is able to include a wide range of experts in this area, I believe that it can prepare a very appropriate basis for legal change in this area. However, it has already been said that not only politics but also experts in this area have stressed that legal changes are necessary. This is what the Head of the Owl says, this is a warning given to the police, which is what experts say publicly on various committees. Another thing the Commission cannot do or identify for the supervision of intelligence and security services is the responsibility of the holders of public functions. This cannot be done by this commission, which is responsible for the supervision of security services. This commission, although the opposition has a majority, cannot access the materials to which, in every normal democratic order, such a commission has access. Today, it has been said several times that the Government has denied access to certain information or that it has delayed access to data that I think this Commission should have access to at any time and immediately. Last but not least, the Commission can exercise announced or unannounced controls in these services, so that the reasons why the Government has denied the Commission so long to control intelligence and security services access to the report on the phenomenon and extremist movements in Slovenia is probably the most well known to the Government itself. I am sorry that there are no more debaters on this subject today, because I think we are talking about a very important phenomenon. As has already been said today: after this campaign by Norwegian extremist Breivik, debates on extremism are very much alive throughout Europe and, above all, politics takes them extremely seriously. I believe that, as I have pointed out today, the Commission of Inquiry on this subject is one of the commissions that can actually justify the purpose and purpose of the Commission of Inquiry. In the past mandate, we had an investigative commission that also dealt with the basis for possible legislative change, an investigative commission dealing with management acquisitions. Unfortunately, this Commission has not done its work, but I have been a member's deputy, and I know that the Commission has prepared quite good expertise by including external experts who have said what needs to be done, to set up a regulatory framework to better regulate this area. So, as I say, I believe that this commission of inquiry can be successful for one reason in particular, because the purpose and purpose of the parliamentary investigation have been very clear. In the past, we have had too many investigative committees that were really determined to represent some witch hunt, that is true, there has been too much political accounting, and it is true that investigative committees have been looking for very legitimate accountability for certain issues, so that it is not possible for all investigative commissions to throw in the same basket. I wish this investigative committee a successful work, and also for a traveller, to lay down a clear timetable for its operation. In the last term, we have proven that the work of the commission of inquiry can be completed over a period of time, that it is not necessary for the work of a commission to be carried over the entire term of office to be carried out, that, lastly, the investigative commissions that went to another extreme, for example, those that counted deleted, which had totaled eight or nine meetings, and after these eight or nine sessions, which were drawn up, I think, after two years, the Commission has adopted the final report. So, I would like the Commission to set itself a clear timeframe to include as many experts as possible to prepare some appropriate material for the necessary legal changes, if necessary – and I think that experts also point to this and not least, that is also its intention to identify the possible responsibility of public function holders. I wish this committee and its members a successful job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see you're already looking for me in the hall. Look, it's been 80 years since Hitler came to power, and it only took five years for Europe to shake before him. In fact, 75 years ago we had a great Munich conference, at which European leaders at the time kneeled before Hitler, the result was the occupation of the Czech Republic, and there was no going back. But the way back wasn't because they accepted Hitler as something funny, weird, and they laughed. Finally, you know how the entire nation has been misled and what the consequences of this Europe and the world have been today. I do not mean to say that this matter is so dramatic for us, but I want to say that no one in this country has the right to underestimate the problems that can arise with regard to extreme movements and that Europe is facing today, for the first time or most after World War II, the problem of extreme groups. They also came to parliaments, the Golden Dawn in Greece, Hungary and elsewhere. The consequences can also be great for the present Europe, including its destiny. So much for this broader framework. In short, anyone who thinks it's happening somewhere else, that it's not with us, or that it's less dangerous, can get it wrong very quickly. It does not matter whether you are left or right, all extremists of all kinds threaten all democratic forces, and especially those who want to be called 'democratic'. That is why this commission, which we are setting up today, or we have received the signatures of 30 Members, was set up primarily to investigate half-time events, explore the situation in Slovenia, links with international extremist groups, and above all, it is my desire to prepare a change in legislation that will not only define the notion of extremism or terrorism in us, but also give the authorities the opportunity to act against it. Finally, some democratic countries to which we so like to refer already have in their legislation a ban on both the assembly and the appearance of extreme groups. You know, a German minister recently had to step down because he underestimated it. You know what kind of plasma of accusations he has now dropped on the president of the Italian party and former Prime Minister Berlusconi, who has no idea how many times he has underestimated this case, from that famous statement that we Slovenians went to Rab on vacation, to saying that he was Mussolini's faest boyfriend. A lot of people thought so, but we know how it ended. And I wouldn't be this wide right now, because I think we're all educated or read enough to know these things. But what I'm trying to say is that we have some experiments here. Now, in Trieste, practically at the Slovenian border, a special organization has been set up to follow the principles and objectives of the Greek Golden Dawn. So, recently, this group was established. In addition, we have in Italy Ordine Nuovo, we have some anarchist groups that are close to our borders – about Hungary I have already talked about – in Croatia they also have serious problems, but there they have renounced, for example, the gathering of neo-Nazis from all over Europe who wanted to meet there. We don't have this legislation against us. And not only the neo-Nazis, but also the Russian nationalists recently had a convention in Slovenia and someone else. That means we have a serious problem here. The second problem is purely political that certain political elites can also seek to serve, if I say so, the services of these extreme groups. Well, that's the job we need to explore if this thing exists. Once again, I repeat, let us also think carefully about the tools that we need to give to the authorities in order to prevent them. In contrast, my colleague, Melita Župevc, has previously said that she has certain levers that the Commission does not have for the supervision of intelligence and security services. This is mainly because it can act as a tribunal, so it can call anyone, it can assign to people the status of the subject, the witness or it just collects information. Finally, people who come before the commission of inquiry must swear to speak the truth. Here are some differences between the regular commission and this investigator. However, I think that the mandate should actually be focused on what I absolutely support to achieve the final product. This final product should finally also be in order to establish that we do not have regulated anti-intelligence activities in this country. That is why we have so many problems with Owl because, on the one hand, we push it to also deal with some of the things that are at the border of legality, because Sova can only work when it finds that there is a connection from outside to internal groups, if it is exclusively for our people, for our organisations, and then there is no responsibility, and the criminal service has no pattern. We are only now, as you well know, changing some powers in the sense that these things will also be more defined. We should think carefully about how we are resolved to change the existing Law on Owl, as well as on the composition of the staff, and some things that have been the teeth of time, in fact, good principles. I'd like to point out one more thing. See, the participation of the Slovenian Army not only in demonstrations, but also in training – of course not in the official language. On 13 December, I asked the question of the Minister of Defence. With his answer, I was partly satisfied. The minister himself said that it was a real problem that someone was working in the Slovenian Army this morning, and he demonstrated in the afternoon against the same country he was defending in the morning. I mean, it's just some weird stuff. They are especially strange if some have lost — I think even with Dr. Yulushičev, when she was a defence minister — even because they were associated with training in the afternoon. These are things we need to be very careful about. Last but not least, you could read that these very days, the Czech army dismissed two officers or deputies because they had Nazi symbols in Afghanistan. This means that other countries are also sensitive to these matters, so there should be no exception to us. Here I absolutely must support the unrelated MEP Vogrin, who said what we are even discussing, because we have an interest not only in alerting us to these matters, but we are trying to resolve them as soon as possible in a preventive way within the limits of the options given. It is clear, however, that the mandate must be such that the final product will not only be conclusions but also proposed amendments and additions to the existing Slovenian legislation. I myself wish this committee a successful work. But I expect all those in the responsible places to help this committee, not to throw pollen under her feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs Tamara Vont has the floor as her proposer. Okay. The next one has the word Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't have much time anymore, but I would say it's right that we all condemn extremist movements and actions, but that's not enough for the security services to operate. It is also not enough for those who have to decide in labour matters whether members of the military, the police or the intelligence and security services, or, for example, the state authorities that may have participated or even cooperated with extremist movements when these people need to be driven out of work. For these purposes, you need a very clear legal basis, which will also prevail in the working and legal courts. We don't have these things in our possession right now. We can morally condemn soldiers if they go to demonstrations this afternoon, the whole public may condemn the action of anyone in the country's repressive apparatus in connection with extremist movements, but this does not solve the problem of you needing a legal basis to deal with such people. I am sure that we, Members of Parliament or the National Assembly, have not done their homework here. We are obliged to adopt an appropriate legal basis for the functioning of security services and for labour law in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A number of things have been described at this time in all the debates we have had so far, and perhaps we should first stop in the process of establishing an investigative commission. Unfortunately, the procedure is as it is, we will not vote on it here, we could all give up the opening presentation, we could all give up the presentation on behalf of the groups of Members and the entire debate. Then the matter would be formal, it would take five minutes, and the matter would go on. But no one was willing to give it up. However, we can change – and I strongly agree with that – the process forward, given that there is no vote on the establishment of an investigative commission or the whole process. Of course, all the burden — what I have said at the time of the presentation of the parliamentary group — is text, content and all that is only in the hands of the proposers, no one can affect the content today, not the form, nor the areas to be investigated. That is why I also said that all responsibility in this regard lies with the applicants. Of course, it is not only a matter of this procedure, the question is how to deal with extremism. I can agree with some of the debaters who have said that it is not enough, just in principle, to condemn politically that we do not agree with extremism, that legislation must follow. And it is true that in the past, whether in the current reference or in all previous references, we have done little in this area. As far as I know, they are the first soldiers to leave the defence system because of their beliefs which are inappropriate and which are contrary to the law that this happened a few years ago; it was not the first time yesterday or last year. I think that three, four years ago, three years ago, something like this, the first soldiers of the security forces at the defence ministry were recognized as people who were, of course, implementing and then nothing happened; neither the Ministry, nor the then minister, nor Parliament, nor the coalition, where we could start these procedures, but we are not. [[...]] So we missed one chance if I just put it that simple. Now we've got another one. Of course, we do not need an investigative commission to find that we need to change the law, we know that, even at closed sessions, we have found that the legislation is flawed and that it does not allow us what we should do. Therefore, once again, both personally and my client, we cannot defend any extremism in any way at any point, irrespective of color or political conviction. It is unacceptable, the tolerance between us and the marriage must be null and void. Of course, we also need to be very careful when we come to the point – I hope that by means of this commission of inquiry we will come to the point where we change the law – then we will all have to weigh between human rights and the powers that we will give to individual services in this room. In doing so, it would be very difficult to accept some of the words that I have heard here today, such as, say, Owl's work on the frontier of legality. It's not like that. In my work, in the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, I cannot confirm that the Owl is working at the border of legality. What we have examined and what we have had in our review, we have been able to find that Owl has carried out its activities, disguised investigative measures and other activities on which it has the power to do them legally and legally. It saddens me, therefore, if someone suggests a sentence that might make people feel that this service does not work as it should. True, not only did representatives of this service, including others, alert us to their limitations. And the limits are very large, very substantial. To put it very simply, Sova can monitor the activities of extreme groups only in relation to foreign countries and has no powers in Slovenia. However, the police, quite simplistic, even if they know that an event is taking place, some assembly is going on somewhere, they will never receive from the court a warrant for undercover or covert observation because this group has not yet done anything illegal because there are no real definitions in the law that would allow them to do so. Here will be the great responsibility of all of us, those who will be on the board of inquiry, those who are on the committee for the supervision of intelligence services, and all of us in Parliament, to find the right measure, to be able to deal with all forms of extremism, and that we will still be able to maintain the appropriate and sufficiently high level of human rights that we have in this country. Of course, we also need to be careful with certain definitions that we can easily use. We can easily speak: extremism, terrorism, these are not equations. Extremism does not mean terrorism either. We have also heard a lot about what is happening to some extreme parties, movements or groups in neighbouring countries. I hope that the investigative committee, or those who will work there, will not deal with neighbouring countries, I am concerned about the security of our country. The moment we received the report, this report spoke of a low level of threat. I would also like to touch on the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. A few members are still here among us in the hall, for others I think they're listening in their rooms. It is very clear that the Commission has been convened several times in a manner that was not in accordance with the law and in accordance with the rules of procedure. Open meetings were held, expressly prohibited by special rules of procedure. This Commission acts differently than all other commissions and committees in Parliament. It was not until September that we reached the meeting, as necessary, to reach a reference as necessary. I don't mean to apologize to anyone, when and how he sent the report. I myself said on the committee that it would be good if such a report as we received it had been received earlier. And the report we received was the report of the Owl. The government just approved him to move on. I also remember very well the discussions that took place in this regard also in the media, where a recognised security expert, also appreciated by some of my colleagues, who like to quote several times, said on the direct question: "Is it enough if the report is long three pages?" Since this is now a fama, we have three pages been long – said: "It is irrelevant, it is important what is written in this report, what is the content. The report can be very brief. We can have 100 pages, but there's nothing in there." I also think that the Commission has so far been getting the information it's in charge of. At all the meetings and at all the controls where I was present and with which I was informed in writing or orally, we received all the information for which the Commission has competence to control the intelligence and security services. However, there are areas which, for such or other reasons, are more interesting to individual Members, and this is perfectly legitimate, but we do not have the legal authority to obtain this area and this information. I'm afraid so. Talking about not giving us information now would be unfair to these services, especially if they have no opportunity to defend themselves against the public in any way. That is why I believe that work has been done too slowly in this area so far, and it is not just us who are working on this committee, perhaps someone outside of it. I do not want to take sides in any way, if I say so, but I want to make it very clear that we needed time from 24 May to 11 September to convene a commission legally and in accordance with the law. And it's true that we're only 26. At the 7th emergency meeting, we started to consider the report we had. And it is also true that this 7th urgent session, which had three or so sequels, is due to have them because the third was cancelled at the last moment, and many times it was written in excuses or in cancellations "absence due to the service routes" of individual Members and so on. By the way, there's nine of us, if one is missing, the world doesn't collapse, we can still work, there must be more than half of us there, 5 is the number that's satisfying. We have not completed these discussions there, so you must understand, dear colleagues, who have made a request for this investigative committee, that, on the other hand, there is some bitter taste in those members or in me as a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, that we have not concluded this debate, especially because this discussion has ended 22. 11 / 22 What Is the Problem of Extremism in Slovenia, 22 / 22 Last year's 11th meeting with obstruction ended when this topic should be discussed. The goal was not only to obstruct, but to prevent the commission from even further occupying. Then it was interrupted – this is not confidential data, so I can talk about it this way – and then it was interrupted, that we found a colleague who had just come to Parliament at the time with some of the official obligations he had, and we could have continued to do it normally. There we agreed in a very frank and honest manner with the Vice-President who led it then – and I thank him for that – that we will continue to do so when we are representatives of all political parties acting on this, because that is right, we must find a common language, a completely uniform common language, in order to confront all forms of extremism and violence, which is also now defined in our laws in some way. But there was no continuation of this session, 11. 12. A third extension was called, followed by a postponement until 31 today. 1. We have not experienced this continuation, despite the fact that a new meeting of the Commission has been convened in the meantime. Such a way of working is not good, dear colleagues and colleagues! If we do so on such an important matter that we are all beating each other on the chest today, that it is necessary to address it urgently, to act on such a matter. Of course, that's not good and that's how I'm concerned. I must also say that from the military intelligence service, when we asked them about extremism, they have made it very clear that they have very sensitive procedures that are prescribed in the Defence Act, which make it clear that they are checking all the people they accept in the structure of the armed forces – different levels of verification for the various services that people perform – and that they are also reacting immediately to any signs of extremism that might occur and that could have inappropriate consequences. They also dealt with and responded to such cases last year. I am sure, and I have no doubt that the service, which has reacted several times in the past three years, has also reacted at the latest events, if, of course, it is that, as described in the media, members of the Slovenian Army have acted extremistally or aggressively on demonstrations, if they have participated like all other citizens, but have the right to do so. No matter where someone is in the service, what kind of work they do, they have the right, according to our constitution, to participate in peaceful, non-violent demonstrations, that is our fundamental right. And then, of course, there is nothing wrong with it, if people at such events by violence or by encouraging violence try to do things that, of course, we all strongly reject and oppose. I personally believe and hope that this Commission will complete its work to prepare such legal bases as will be good, that the National Assembly will provide the places in which the Commission can work, will now be even harder, one of its colleagues said that it was already difficult to work, because the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services does not have enough space, does not have enough "staff" or people helping at work is limited when it can have these meetings, now we will have two groups that will spend most of their time in the same premises. Since a great deal of data, except for those affected by legislative changes, will practically all serious data be confidential in nature, at least so I think that the services involved will define them, and I hope that the leadership of the National Assembly will be able to get enough support from the experts in Parliament, so that they will be professionals who will do their job well and with good and good faith, twenty-four hours a day, and that they will be able to do this work. I also expect to conclude with all seriousness the 7th extraordinary session, which is still open – which is open, by the way, with an exact date of 26. 10.– about the subject that we must resolve immediately, urgently and that concerns all of us, at least today we have been able to hear. I hope that we will also close these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioners, Mrs. Tamara Vont. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't be too long. I just want to say a few things. I also meant to answer to individual debaters, but my colleagues have been so comprehensive in these arrangements that it seems pointless to repeat everything again. But what I would like to say is the following: The words of the investigative commissions as such have been made ourselves, so none of them have made it, none of them have submitted it as such, but the reputations of the investigative commissions have been made by those, now I am also part of this, of course, sitting in Parliament and sitting in Parliament. I find it inappropriate to start an investigative commission immediately to indicate that no, but to use the word on reproduction, in fact, is inappropriate and, in short, inappropriate. [[...]] As to what my predecessor was talking about, there is only one thing I would say about this and about the report. Of course, it doesn't matter how long the report has been, what it says is important, but it is also important if the report is changed, which is important again. And in fact, as Dr Petrovec from the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana said, from the point of view of a doctor who accepts a police officer who has thrown a granite cube into it, it doesn't matter where it came from, but for the state authorities, it's damn important. And the public authorities are the ones who need to find out who did this, who need to explore all possible connections, potential contracting authorities, potential organisers, anything to clear this up. This question cannot be left unanswered in the sense that it does not matter, but a granite cube came to the police. This, of course, should never have happened. But once again, from the point of view of the doctor, it doesn't matter, but from the point of view of the state authorities, it certainly doesn't. Although I've been here since morning, I've been following the media records a little bit, and I've also noticed that Owa has actually been in charge of the commission for the issue of personal data and similar information agents. Of course, the information officer has responded to this immediately, but this is a well-known union paper. In short, I would be so involved in the work of the Commission as one with which it is essential that the Commission of Inquiry also cooperate. I would like this commission of inquiry to be an entire Parliament, it is said that this commission of inquiry would not be one halve, but an entire Parliament and that we will do what is right in this committee and, as expected from us, we are all responsible again, not just the proposers. Everybody. I think it might be in everyone's interest to work together on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. In doing so, the list of reported discussers has been exhausted and I note that the time allocated for this item has not yet expired, and I ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mrs. Janja Attack, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Extremism, or the basis of any extremism, regardless of culture, ethics or religion, socio-economic status somehow applies to the dichotomy "we against them", which, after all, is also the fundamental feature of anarchism on the one hand and fundamentalism on the other, as we have already heard as official division and other concepts or movements, but somehow the reason for the formation of these groups I see as the idea to take a certain concept and potentiate it to absurdity. Otherwise, it is a very relative concept or item, and I think it is a group that is not prepared for any compromise. Therefore, security is really crucial, not only for the demonstrators themselves or those who want to participate in the conventions in a peaceful spirit, but here is the problem that there is no control of the social conflict in Slovenia. I strongly support the purpose of this act, in what way domestic and foreign investigative authorities are investigating and preventing crimes committed through various channels, in order to prevent or at least restrict them. Here I also see the methods and tactics of investigating the crimes of various extremists through the Internet or computer crime, because more and more acts are linked to the apparent electronic space and a lot of hate speech and the potential of extremism are also done through the Internet. Above all, through new information communication tools and social networks, they spread their ideas. I may also be interested in the reasons why the security authorities have very limited interference with the possibility of censoring or closing the propaganda web sites. Then ACTA comes to my mind here because I see some kind of contradiction here, where it's allowed to interfere with these investigations. In short, I would just like to point this out, but it is true that the lady is previously a colleague. The waste talked about feminism and perhaps the opposition we had on one of the committees. I don't think I spoke here because of political opposition or political opposition, but really, my belief is that I don't support feminism because it seems to me that emancipation is enough to help women become more and more involved in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Once again, I took the floor mainly because I listened attentively to the concluding thought of our colleague, who was first signed under the proposed act. Of course, I have no proof - I hope that no one else has one yet, because we have just asked the Commission on Intelligence and Security Services for it - that the documents have been processed in any way in any instance. If anyone had such information, he should have turned it over to the investigating authorities a long time ago because it is a serious matter. This is not something that is suggested in Parliament and then what we write about it and nothing happens or is just described. These are very serious things that have been mentioned, so I hope that this meeting of the Commission, which I have already mentioned several times in my previous performance, will continue, complete, and find out, with all the means available to the Commission of Inquiry or the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Of course, those who have not yet worked on this committee may not know, but the law is extremely clear, and the consequences can be quite difficult if someone lies to the competent authorities, deceives or does anything else. Thus, it is not only the Commission which is now established that has certain powers. Otherwise, I'd like to reassure some of my colleagues. Of course, the Commission will be the entire Parliament's commission, because it can't be otherwise, by law it can't be different! By law, there is a precise structure and it speaks precisely of all the members of their representatives there; they can have one, they can have two, but all. Nice to meet you. We won't be able to vote on the size of the customer we have there. It saddens me that we do not have a proposal here today to start work immediately. We will lose another month; another month, dear colleagues, we will lose because today we do not have a proposal to appoint – the law clearly states that the members of the commission are usually appointed at the same meeting. But we don't have that today! I don't know why. Why didn't the proposer propose that either? This saddens me because it would be very good if we could start this work next week, immediately after a regular session of Parliament, no matter who is where, who is traveling, who has some business, who is on sick leave, who is on leave. I hope that these excuses will not be very large and we will only have some media performance for no purpose. I hope so. I hope so. I'm not accusing you of this happening, not misinterpreting it. I sincerely hope that you are serious about this and that we will take this matter seriously, because this is a very serious issue. I therefore expect that, in accordance with the law at the next meeting on the agenda of the Commission, the structure of all the persons who will act on this committee. If that's not the case, we're breaking the law. We have one month's time, more than one month's time, until March 4th, if I'm not mistaken when we're only starting our next regular session. I therefore call on the proposers to do what they could already do from 4 January to 31 January and propose that we start work as soon as possible. But all those who will be appointed, I hope that with all their knowledge and credibility in this committee they will cooperate and contribute so that we can find appropriate solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamara Vont, you can't get a word on this because you didn't sign up. You had the opportunity to apply, but in this part you also do not get the floor as a representative of the proposer. Mr. Lucky Meh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u246	Let me re-emphasize from my point of view some of the very important tasks that we must perform. The leadership of the National Assembly must ensure that this Commission of Inquiry has all the conditions for work and that the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services will not be undermined. In my previous performance, I said that, according to my assessment, we do not have enough conditions for this work, which I think is first. Secondly, it seems important to me to say that it is actually necessary to approach immediately what we already know it is. This is said to be something that needs to be done quickly in the field of legislation, immediately because it is one of the problems. Thirdly, I think it is important to say, a message to citizens and citizens from this area, from the National Assembly, that when we set up an investigative commission, we do not consider that any action should be taken in this area that those responsible would not have taken. Let me reiterate that on the Commission we have discussed and made clear the message that the responsible services have told us that there are extremists and that they are also present in Slovenia, that it is not just one and that the threat in Slovenia is low. But our job is to control, monitor, and control whether everything is as it should be, and whether it is true what we say – of course I believe. We, ladies and gentlemen, must be the ones who will not give the wrong signal from the National Assembly. Right now, there is no reason for this, so during this period, any kind of panic needs to be done, work, supervision is required, and every job must be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I myself have always advocated investigative parliamentary commissions, this classical institute of European Parliamentism, and it is the same in this matter. Because, although I am sure that Slovenia is not happy yet with extremist groups, I also hope that we do not yet have real terrorism, but the ideological burden is extremely high. In fact, in some countries these ideologies, which are linked to the evil of the past, are prohibited, but they are not with us. Every country must pay particular attention to what was evil in its territory, as in Germany, Nazism and pro-Nazi parties, groups, ideologies are prohibited, should be in those countries that we are in different burdens where other crimes have occurred in its past, that is more under public scrutiny, unfortunately we are not. For us, the problem of extreme left-wing extremism, which is widely endorsed by the media and also by part of the public. I must say that I agree, as stated here in the explanatory memorandum, that it is undeniable that extremism is also present in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, how could it not be, but when certain terrorism was tolerated in the previous country also on the ground of Slovenia! Remember the kidnapping of the ship Achille Laura, which landed in Trieste in the 1970s, the terrorists killed a couple of passengers, and the terrorist Abbas lost himself with the help of the Slovenian authorities and gave him shelter. We are not surprised when we have recently read or published Igor Omerza's book 88 steps to hell, which describes the work of the Slovenian Udba, the current chief who is still alive, who is a very important man of this system and the Slovenian left, who ordered the abduction of a citizen somewhere in Italy and brought him in, nothing to blame, and of course they destroyed a man. This was not the only kidnapping of Slovenian intelligence services at the time! There was a lot going on. Of course, part of this is that even in the work of the political public, it is simply not clear to the Member that certain things in connection with democracy are not possible to do so. Yesterday, my colleague Brultz said that the D.A. was suing someone and someone was going to sue him. You see, that's the classic rest of the past, when the CK really said that, and that's something to be convicted of, and the D.A.'s already been convicted. I hope that's not the case now, defending such methods in such a way that it so boils from people who think it's okay, but it's wrong. When we talk about extremism in Slovenia, I must say that when I was chairman of the Supervisory Commission in the years 2000-2004, we were then informed, we also saw something about these extreme proletarian groups – in a second form today some came to academic titles and academic chairs at the university – when they attended these anti-globalist demonstrations in Genoa and helped to break it up at the time, documented on the Commission and the then Drnovšk government, I must say that they were very afraid. She was very afraid of those extreme lefties back then. Of course, in some other emerging forms, these same people have been appearing in the propaganda of what has been happening on Slovenian streets in the last two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly shall not vote on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry. Therefore, I note that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry into the existence and functioning of extremist groups and movements in the Republic of Slovenia, suspected to be in contravention of legislation and to promote violence and to spread national, racial, religious or other intolerance and hatred. [[hereinafter referred to as ‘extremist groups’]] , and the activities of these extremist groups that allegedly participated in the November and December 2012 protests in Ljubljana and Maribor, for the first time, which may be the basis for amending legislation to prevent and control extremist groups, namely the laws governing the establishment of parties, associations and other voluntary associations, public gatherings and public gatherings, the powers of security and intelligence services or the amendment of other legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly, and for the second time, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of individual public function holders due to the suspicion that individual public function holders participate in the functioning of extremist groups or support them that individual public function holders have been involved in the activities of extremist groups and their alleged members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who allegedly participated in the December 2012 protests. The purpose and scope of the parliamentary investigation are defined in the request of the Group of Members and Members for the purpose of determining the parliamentary investigation and in the act on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry which you have also received. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly, no later than at the forthcoming meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, the Mandate-Voluntary Affairs. We are moving on to the hearing of the Prime Minister's Notice on the resignation of Dr. Senko Plicanič from the post of Minister of Justice and Public Administration. The President of the Government, Janez Janša, informed the President of the National Assembly by letter of 24 January 2013 that he had resigned from his post as Minister of Justice and Public Administration. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senk Plitchanič, for reasons of resignation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u250	[[microphone off]] grounds for resignation from the post of Minister of Justice and Public Administration. [[...]] As you know, the Council of the National Gazette adopted a decision on the withdrawal from the coalition last Wednesday. You know everything about the reasons for this decision. The logical consequence of such a decision by the party is my resignation from the post of Minister of Justice and Public Administration. What's the balance sheet of my ministry? This year, I took a short but important journey with my associates. Despite a relatively short period of time, we have achieved much in the area of justice. We have clearly shown that the situation in the judiciary is worrying and that we cannot and must not be satisfied with trends in the speed of work of the judiciary. We have also made clear the reasons for this situation. We have prepared the legal changes necessary to change this situation, i.e. for a faster and more efficient judiciary. Of course, we must be aware that the primary responsibility for changes in the judiciary lies with the judiciary alone. In the field of public administration or public sector in general. We have shown that the public sector is largely irrational and the quality of public services is too low. We have also made clear here the reasons for this situation, and on this basis we have prepared the legal changes necessary to change this situation, i.e. for a more rational and quality public sector. The legal changes I'm talking about have been prepared professionally, on the basis of professional criteria and in due consideration. In preparing these changes, I wanted to involve the professional and other public as much as possible and, of course, to the extent possible, to align myself with the judiciary when it comes to judicial reform and with the social partners when it comes to public sector reforms. I didn't want to make changes as fast as they did in some other cases, because I know from experience that such solutions cannot be good, they can often make things worse. All these legislative changes are necessary for changes in the better in these areas, and I therefore call on you, honourable Members, to support them despite my resignation and despite the withdrawal of the National List from the coalition in Parliament. In particular, I would like to highlight the bankruptcy law, the new bankruptcy law, which is adopted in the economy with great approval and expectation and also of exceptional importance for the economy; then the changes related to the administration of the judiciary, this is a new law on courts and judicial services, and the introduction of targeted management into the public sector and the related changes in the public sector's salary system – this is a matter of novelty in the law on state administration, the law on the public sector system of wages and the law on public servants. How's it going? The legal changes I have been talking about are important, but for real changes in Slovenia we also need to change a number of things that cannot be legalised. These are values and qualities that we no longer seem to know in Slovenia: honesty, uprightness, dignity, respect, civic confidence, courage and pride. This year, in Parliament, here among you, in your head, among unions and everywhere else, even among so-called ordinary people, especially there, I met many good and hearty people, left and right, believing and believing, and incredible, and to all there was a common love for our country, which all of the things I said before they had. The task of all those who have this is to show others that the application of these values and characteristics is the only right way, such as the only right way to help others, because it is the greatest self-fulfillment. But it doesn't just help to talk about it. We must show this to people by our actions and enable them to gain this experience by themselves. Finally, dear colleagues and political colleagues, when you are looking for a way out of the existing political situation in the coming days, keep an eye on us all here for one purpose, that is to help our people, our citizens and our citizens. They expect all of us to do so on a reasonable basis. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his explanation of his resignation statement. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr Senku Plitčanič has ceased to serve as Minister of Justice and Public Administration. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Senko Plitcanič shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank Dr. Shadow Plitschani for his cooperation, and I wish him the best in his further work. Thank you very much. We are moving on to a discussion of the Government's Notice of the resignation of Dr. Janez Šuštersič from the post of Minister of Finance. President Janez Janša informed the President of the National Assembly by letter of 24 January 2013 that Dr Janez Šuštersič had resigned from his post as Minister of Finance. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersic, to explain his resignation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u252	Your Honor! The explanation for my resignation is simple: The National List has withdrawn from the coalition and it is therefore right for its ministers to resign. In party democracy, it is difficult to become a minister, and it is difficult to do something if you are not followed by a party, but also by a strong parliamentary majority. However, we and Minister Plitsnik and the President of the National Assembly are not the only ones who have received positions on the basis of a coalition agreement. On this basis, in the last year, with the support of the National Gazette, they have been appointed to the supervisory councils of state-owned enterprises, corporate administrations and public institutions such as schools, hospitals, nursing homes, many people. It would be right for all those who were appointed under the coalition agreement to resign because of the party's resignation, as the Minister and, of course, the President of the National Assembly did. The main decision of the National List in the past days has expressed great satisfaction, that is clear, but together with other parties leaving the coalition or predicting it, we have also taken on a great deal of responsibility. We need to find a solution to create a new stable government either in Parliament or through quick elections. The path to creating a new government in Parliament will be extremely difficult, and we should work together with a party that also has a major problem with the report of the anti-corruption commission, and they have just put this problem in the drawer. It will also be difficult for Parliament to form a different parliamentary majority in its current composition, which will be as substantive as the current one, committed to urgent economic measures and reforms. As a finance minister, of course, I am well aware of the situation in which our economy is, to mention only the most important. It is true that the financing of the budget is provided by June, but it is also true that if we raise all the deposits held by the State in the banks, their liquidity will be seriously threatened much earlier. That is why we prepared everything at the Ministry for the new issue of the dollar bond already in January. We could issue a five-year-old, with the cost of borrowing between three and a half percent and four percent. Today these costs would be somewhat but not dramatically higher, but the Prime Minister of the Government has ordered that these activities be stopped and the relevant decisions for the government meeting have not been included. In the shortest possible time, the situation in the economy must also lead to the start of a bad bank. We have proposed to the government three excellent candidates for executive directors, for non-executive directors, for people who have participated in similar projects around the world, have experience and have been recommended by respected international organisations. These people would be the best guarantee that the bad bank will actually be effective and professional. However, these appointments were not included in the government’s meeting. In short, while the President of the Government is preventing us from withdrawing from the government because of urgent tasks, he himself is blocking some emergency measures. This is not responsible, and that is why this is also the best answer for all those who have asked me to remain as finance minister in this situation in the government and try to complete some things. I guess that wouldn't be possible. Allow me to conclude by saying that, as Minister who resigns, I waive the financial compensation due to officials after the end of my term of office. No, because I have a job, I don't have a job, but because I think if someone resigns, they don't have the right to put the costs of their decision on taxpayers. Nor do I feel that, as a former official, it would be better for me to receive a higher compensation than for ordinary citizens if they lose their jobs, not because we have reduced these compensations due to savings in this mandate and, of course, these compensations for ordinary people who remain unemployed. In the end, I thank all Members and Members of Parliament, who, this year, have given my proposals a kind word, as well as your voice. Above all, I want much more thought and responsibility for all politicians than we have seen in recent weeks. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-31-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u253	I thank the Minister for his explanation of his statement of resignation and for his view of the current financial situation in the country. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr. Janez Šuštersiču has ceased to serve as Minister of Finance. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Šuštersič conducts ongoing business until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank Dr. Janez Šušteršič for his cooperation and wish him the best in his further work. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow on 1 February. I'm adjourning the 10th meeting of the choir, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
