ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Samo Bevk, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Brane Golubovic, Mr Branko Kurnjek – is here – from 16.15 onwards, until then he is with us, Mr Zvonko Černač, Mr Marijan Pojbič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on agricultural collection of Slovenia in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Jacob the Intercessor. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Jakob President, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia as a working body at its 27th session. This year's 11th. In addition to the draft law, the members of the Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made some specific comments to the draft law, which were summarised in its amendments by the Slovenian People's Party's Group as the drafter of the law. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Government of 11 July, in which the Government notes that the proposal for a law can be supported, but provided that Article 9 which allows the temporary financing of the Chamber is provided so that, in the event that the Chamber submits an annual work programme by the beginning of the current year but does not yet obtain the consent of the competent minister, the regular tasks of the public services shall be continuously carried out in the current year, on the basis of a decision of the competent minister. In its amendment, the Government also proposed deleting Article 12, which lays down the obligation of the Consultative Referendum and provides for certain provisions on compulsory membership in the agri-agricultural assembly system. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which does not support the proposal. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, which in principle does not oppose the proposed reduction of membership in the Chamber, and notes that the income of the Chamber for natural persons would also be reduced as a result of the removal of small farms from compulsory membership. Their estimate is estimated at around 500 000 euros. Even before discussing individual articles and amendments and amendments to the Committee's amendments, the Member of the Parliament of the Positive Slovenia Group proposed that the Committee, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. In particular, he based his proposal on the fact that there have been substantial changes in the calculation of the determination of cadastral income, which is the criterion for membership in the Chamber, since the introduction of the bill into the legislative procedure. While the majority of the members expressed support for the proposed decision, they pointed out that the law in force should undoubtedly be amended or a new system law should be drafted as soon as possible to ensure the normal functioning of the Chamber. Those members of the committee who opposed the proposed decision also agreed that it was necessary to amend the applicable law as soon as possible, so they called on the government representatives to speed up the drafting of a new law in cooperation with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Some members of coalition parliamentary groups expressed the expectation that the new law prepared by the Government would be based on voluntary membership, since they felt that the public services in the Chamber would not be at any risk because they were largely financed by the budget and that the Chamber would be more receptive in this way to the needs of its membership. The representative of the Coalition Group also stressed that legal persons who own agricultural land or are engaged in agricultural, forestry or fishing activities should be derived from compulsory membership in the Chamber. After the discussion on the draft law was concluded, the Committee adopted the following decision with 7 votes in favour and 1 against: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, too. I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposal for a bill to Mr Jakob Preseknik for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the home working body. Here we go again, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much again for your word. That's why I just stayed for this pay phone. In opening, I should like to stress, on behalf of the applicants, that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber Act was adopted by the National Assembly on 20 May 1999 in order to bring together the membership of the two groups. The first group shall cover natural persons who are owners, tenants, users and holders of the right to use agricultural land and forests in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and persons who carry out agricultural, forestry, fishing activities and have notified themselves as independent entrepreneurs, and persons who, as owners, tenants or users of an agricultural or forestry establishment, carry out an agricultural, forestry or fishing activity as their sole or principal business, are not in possession of a cadastral income and are liable for an activity tax. The second group shall cover legal persons registered as agricultural organisations. In addition to both, there are voluntary members of the Chamber who may be legal or natural persons. Following the adoption of this law, the law was still amended, with the amendment of the law reducing the number of members years ago in such a way that the smallest owners who did not have a full interest in participating in the Chamber were thus ousted. Thus, something similar was observed during the spring period that some of the reasons why a change of law should be made in the chamber. In this amendment of the law, we have tried to resolve the following issues in particular. Firstly, the criteria for membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture have already been mentioned, in such a way that, in addition to the level of the cadastral income, the condition for compulsory membership is also the entry into the register of agricultural holdings. In particular, we wanted to ensure that the members of the Chamber were those receiving the subsidies or all those involved in the agricultural policy measures. However, this cannot be achieved directly, so we said that all those who are registered in the register of agricultural holdings. In this way, in our opinion, the number of members of the chamber from a good 108 000 would be reduced to around 78 000, thus limiting to all those actually associated with agriculture. This means that the members of the Chamber are owners, tenants, users, right to use or users of agricultural land and forests in the territory of Slovenia and are registered registers of agricultural holdings. But the catastrophe income for membership is limited as it was before, and we have not made any changes. Due to such a reduced number of members, we also propose a change in the composition or a reduction in the number of members of the Councils. We further propose deleting the permanent arbitration of the Chamber. Given that the members of the Chamber do not conclude contracts with each other and that the arbitration is pointless or at all irrelevant. The proposal seeks to regulate the possibility of temporary funding of public services in the field of public agricultural advisory services until all documents between the Chamber and the Government are agreed or signed. It is a system of twelve, such as any other public service financed by the State budget. We proposed an invitation to a consultation referendum on the abolition of mandatory membership in the Chamber, which would be held among those members of the Chamber who would remain members of the Chamber on the basis of the new criteria for membership in the Chamber. However, when amending the law, we have pointed out that, in view of the anticipated changes in the definition of cadastral income, the law with the corresponding amendments will have to be further supplemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government did not oppose the bill but proposed, as already mentioned, two amendments. With the first amendment, the Government proposed that, in the event that the Slovenian Agricultural and Economy Chamber submits an annual work programme by the beginning of the current year, but does not yet obtain the consent of the competent minister, regular public service tasks be carried out continuously also during the current year on the basis of a decision of the competent minister defining the extent of the resources and activities for a given period. We therefore support temporary funding, but under the condition of a preliminary submission at least a draft programme and a ministerial decision which can provide funding not after twelve but up to twelve. The second amendment referred to Article 12 of the bill providing for an obligation to consult a referendum on compulsory membership in the Chamber. The Government has proposed that this Article should be deleted because it considers it inappropriate for the legislator to prescribe a mandatory consultation referendum within the framework of the membership of the Chamber, since this is an internal matter of the Chamber and since such verification of the wishes of members relating to compulsory membership can be established within the framework of the functioning of the Chamber itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a decision on the proposal to conclude early or unsuccessfully the consideration of the law where the proposed colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party wanted to reduce the number of members in the still mandatory membership of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber on the basis of new criteria. But with the proposal, they have all the problems and dilemmas; from the government to the chamber itself, otherwise, different, but still. We do not have a problem with this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, because we have a clear position, which we have also made public several times. For us only voluntary membership is acceptable in all chambers, and we have also told the representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. And that's probably the only topic where we disagree with them and their actions. That is why we have already supported in this mandate the proposal of colleagues from Nova Slovenije who have drawn up a legal proposal for voluntary membership in this mandate and have unfortunately experienced an early end to the procedure. However, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber has prepared individual amendments to the individual provisions of the existing law, which are very substantive and will be subject to review in the following amendments to the law and it is possible to agree with them. But in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will only fully support the law in the future, which will lead to the voluntary operation of the Chamber, as our opinion is the following, applies to all the Chambers. If the Chamber works well for the benefit of its members, it will have no difficulty to keep members who will be happy to contribute to the work of the Chamber if the operation and cooperation take place in both directions, and so will new members. Your Honor! It will soon be 2014 and in Slovenia we are still engaged in compulsory membership. Voluntary membership is the only right way, without expensive referendums within membership. You don't want politics to bite into this one soon, too, for some forbidden fruit and take responsibility. We have no problem with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u10	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the history of the creation of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber in Slovenia, we meet mainly with the politicization of the operation of this organization. Its creation has already been extremely politically discolored, at which time one political option advocated the establishment of a Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, the other we had a lot of concerns and nevertheless there has been an establishment in a way that somehow departs from the other Chambers, because it is not only about the fact that the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture represents all those who own agricultural land and forests and deal with agriculture, but also enjoys the creation rights of agricultural institutions. This is a special status, a special difference or a significant difference in comparison with other chambers, because we passed on the actual exercise of rights in agri-agri-agricultural establishments by law at that time. The fact is that there is an extremely strong agricultural and forestry profession in the agri-agricultural institutions and that, last but not least, the financing of these institutions is the subject of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so that, once the objective of obtaining the Agriculture and Forestry Chamber is met, we also, of course, have caused the fact that it is not, in fact, a fully independent chamber, because it is largely financed right from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to compulsory or voluntary membership itself, we have also spoken a lot in the National Assembly, and we have also adopted some laws that have actually raised the threshold for entry into the mandatory membership of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, thus somehow excluding those landowners who are really primarily passionate about this activity, and have tried to decide what the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture should do, particularly those who are also engaged in agriculture. We will support the proposal that this bill is not suitable for further consideration. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. In fact, on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, he made sure that the Ministry would prepare a new, truly needed Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. In this new law, however, it is really important that membership be regulated. We are convinced about the referendum by the Social Democrats that it must be decided by the authorities within the Chamber, but that this is not prescribed in the law, which would be unusual. However, in general, we are the Social Democrats all the time in all cases against the referendums on such matters. We have evidence of poor experience in the Chamber of Commerce, from the number of participants to who voted in the referendum and how the referendum took place. If a referendum is to take place in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, then this needs to be prepared differently, it is said qualitatively that the decision will indeed have some weight. Today we will vote that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and thus open the way for a new, quality and professional law to be drawn up that will address all the open issues that have been raised in connection with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to all present! First of all, we believe that amendments to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber Act are necessary. Although the proposal from the SLS Group is better than the current regime, it does not solve the essential problems. Members of the Civil Service List on the Committee wanted to table amendments to improve the proposal of colleagues from the People's Party, but since this did not happen, we reject the support of this proposal. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the abolition of compulsory membership would also be a cure for the Agricultural-Agriculture Chamber. Compulsory membership is an absurdity that must be eliminated as soon as possible in a society that seeks to be democratic. Not because it does not bring together some 30 to 50 thousand remaining farmers living out of this activity, but because it forces those small and semi-small ones and, on the other hand, those large ones organised under the Economic Companies Act, whose membership force often represents even the need for an institution of conscientious objection, because it works very openly against their interests. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is, by its nature, a union which, by its will, carries out certain public functions at the same time as if the Union of Free Trade Unions were merged with the Employment Office. Since the orientation of the Agricultural and Economy Chamber is different from that of market producers, it would be right not to force them into a useful place, but even an enemy relationship. May its members be those who see in it the benefits. The debate on the form of membership of the largest non-governmental organisation has also led to very different opinions within the assembly offices themselves. With regard to the possible verification of the pulse of membership in the referendum, the stone farmer wonders who we fear, who we fear, ourselves, our elected, our work, conservativeness or incompetence. Unlike him, the haloški winegrower estimates that the Agricultural-land chamber is the only right NGO to protect Slovenian farmers and rural areas. As a third view, the Gorenje cattle farmer is convinced that the consultative referendum on the abolition of compulsory membership would succeed, since the assembly system has died out in the field of expertise, not only has it died. However, if I may add the opinion of my neighbor, the Zavaje hill farmer, do this to me: "I have not yet had to be required in the party, but today I am forced to join the Farmers' Chamber." In the Civil Gazette, we call on the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment to prepare amendments and amendments to the law, which will largely follow the needs of farmers and which will improve the operation and functioning of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you again very much for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! From all the discussions so far, I will not comment on the views of the groups of Members, but also on the Committee, there have been the most discussions on this mandatory or optional membership. However, the fact is that the law needs to be amended and this has also been demonstrated by the debate so far. In particular, I will therefore stress some of the other solutions that are in this proposal of the law and which need to be finalized urgently, urgently change and find appropriate solutions. Surely, what we have done a few years ago, but once again, it is necessary to clear the membership of those who are genuinely interested in being represented in representing them, in defending their interests. As a result, with such a reduced number of memberships – after all, due to lower red tape and lower costs – it is also necessary to reduce the number of members in the offices of the Chamber. I'll turn to another aspect. In a number of years at the beginning of the year, for several months, there is always a problem of temporary financing of public services, temporary funding is unregulated, as is the case with many other public funds consumers and a chamber for this period of borrowing expensive loans, until appropriate procedures or arrangements have been concluded between the Minister, the Ministry or the Government and the Chamber, or this problem occurs especially when the State budget or the relevant budget balance is not adopted in due time. For this reason, or in particular because of this, we have already tabled this amendment in the spring months, and I also expect the Government or the Ministry, in cooperation with the Chamber and others, to prepare appropriate amendments to this Act: either those which, with this view of rapid change, are urgently needed or even, as some say, should be systematically regulated in a new way. I think it's a difficult task for the Ministry and for the authorities of the Chamber to lead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. It's a good-bye to all of you! The subject matter of this Act has already been the subject of a decision in the National Assembly in this mandate. We have already rejected the proposal of New Slovenia in the summer, which, like this proposal, referred mainly to membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. The main question is whether to maintain the current mandatory membership or to allow farmers to decide for their own membership in the Chamber. Both compulsory and voluntary membership have negative and positive consequences. In general, however, there is a tendency to establish voluntary membership or to give members the opportunity to determine for themselves what kind of membership they want. Our Group of Members is united in the view that it would be prudent to ask members about the form of membership. Only in this way would we get real information about what membership really wants and needs, and no matter what their definition would be, would we make their decision. In this direction we also expect a new law prepared by the competent ministry. However, this proposal for a law was seen as inappropriate in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenije we are pleased that, with our proposal for a law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, we have in fact been able to draw attention to the problem of inadequately regulated membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Today, there is no longer an agricultural participant who would argue that the current agricultural assembly system is appropriate and, above all, that it responds adequately to the needs of modern agriculture. The Ministry also acknowledges that changes are necessary. However, in our view, the proposal that we are currently considering tackles the problem at the wrong end. For us Christian Democrats, compulsory membership is unacceptable. The proposed amendment retains mandatory membership while at the same time substantially reducing the number of members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. It also foresees the implementation of a costly and complex referendum. In our opinion, this would greatly affect and weaken the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which we cannot support in Novi Slovenija. Our new Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber proposed voluntary membership, a simple way to implement the transition to a new system and provided the opportunity for the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber to develop into a European Comparative Chamber. In the 21st century, it is unacceptable and unbelievable that anyone is forced to become a member of a particular organization, especially when an individual estimates that he is not expected to benefit from it. On this occasion, Christian Democrats call on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber to finally adapt the advisory service financed from public funds to the modern needs of farmers. Counselors must be on the ground to help and among the people, not to be burdened with paper and imprisoned in offices. For the administration, they should really only take the minimum time they need. At the same time, we draw attention to a fairer and more appropriate regulation of the status of local units of the Agricultural and Economy Chamber, as there are currently large imbalances in the amount of local units' payments to the centre and the reimbursement of money from the centre to local units. This is the most pressing problem in Pomure. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and we call on the Ministry to take our proposals and proposals into account as widely as possible when preparing a comprehensive proposal. We hope it will be at the parliamentary table as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u20	Good day to you all. Let me also give the position of Positive Slovenia on the proposal of the law. The agricultural assembly system has been in force since 1999. On the one hand, the management of the public service or the exercise of public powers, advice as an extended period of agricultural policy through regional institutions and therefore the recipient of budgetary resources. On the other hand, the enforcement of the interests of those engaged in agriculture or representing the interests of farmers and agricultural organisations and the impact of agricultural policies on the promotion of development. The concept of compulsory membership as a legal person of public law has been introduced, which is also supported by the Constitutional Court, which requires the State to provide itself with a representative body capable of representing interests arising from different situations. So why are changes needed? Comments are about establishing criteria for compulsory membership, one is the criterion in force, that is the cadastral income, and the other is that many members of chambers are not directly linked to agricultural activity. The current criterion causes and will be too abnormal with changes in the cadastral income. It is, of course, necessary to determine a new one; either bound to the surface or tied to the recipient of the subsidy payments. Further comments are aimed at clearer definitions of the tasks of public services within the Chamber and the competence of regional institutions with a view to a more stable functioning, greater autonomy and thus decentralisation of the Chamber. It is also important to save the appointment of members of the board of institutions to reflect the real electoral system. Of course, it is also a means of financing institutions according to the pattern set out for other public services. Since the proposal for amendments to the law by the SLS proposal is a dilemma and comments, in particular the criteria for membership, decentralisation, does not solve, of course we cannot support the SLS proposal in Positive Slovenia and in our opinion the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, we expect the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to prepare a new proposal as soon as possible to resolve all the dilemmas and derogations. All in order to ensure that, together with the sectoral institutions, the assembly system works towards better results in agriculture, with which we cannot praise, in particular, greater self-sustainment, higher added value in agriculture, the proper direction of European funds and the representation of the interests of agricultural producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The draft decision will be decided on Wednesday, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 11. 2013, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Access to Information of Public Meaning. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 12 Members and Members of Parliament, signed by Richard Branislje, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. Nicely greeted! You have an extremely important marriage ahead of you, and you could even say a revolutionary law that, in the middle and long term, could reveal a lot of what is now hidden, and it should have been exposed long ago. The Public Information Access Act was adopted in 2003 and has already brought a considerable revolution in the public sector by providing access to all information on the functioning of public entities, with the exception of tax exemptions, i.e. documents which these entities are not obliged to disclose. The law has brought about a major change in the philosophy of the public sector. If the State had previously been considered to be operating in secret to the public, it had to act in an open and transparent manner. The law of the week, Gantar's marriage could have been called, meant a great step forward. Later the law was amended several times and each next step went towards even greater transparency, such as the 2006 novel, which provided for certain data to be absolutely public, so that they cannot be subject to exceptions, such as data on public servants and public officials, even though they are personal data, are 100 % public if they relate to their work. According to international research, according to a study by Access Info and the Canadian Institute for Law and Democracy, Slovenia is among the first three countries in the world in terms of transparency in the public sector. But it's never so good that it couldn't be any better, and it's time for the next step. This next step is to extend transparency to undertakings owned directly or indirectly by the State and the municipalities or under the direct or indirect dominant influence of the State or municipalities. These companies are our common assets and are turning billions of euros in our common money. All too often, their overseers and their board members act as if it were their property, as if it were their own feud, which no one cares about, is really our common property. We therefore rightly expect these companies to operate economically, to make profits for us and to operate transparently. These companies must be under the thorough scrutiny of the media and the public. According to the Ernst&Young survey carried out this year, Slovenia has landed in an infamous first place after the level of corruption in the economy. This assessment relates primarily to publicly owned enterprises, state or municipality property. According to the IMD scale, World Competitiveness Yearbook is Slovenia, following corporate governance, 51st place from the 59th countries they assess. Expansion of transparency to publicly owned enterprises results in public oversight of their business and consequently more cost-effective and responsible management of these companies, the provision of a better, healthier business environment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises that can compete under fairer and more competitive conditions for business with these companies, the reduction of corruption risks and the transparency of the remuneration of managers and more transparent staffing. Respected colleagues and colleagues, in companies owned by a majority of the state or municipality, will make public all donor and sponsoring contracts, all legal and advisory contracts, salaries, emoluments and other ratings of members of the administrations and members of the supervisory boards. It will be possible to see with whom and what business these companies are doing. In the proposed amendments, we have taken a balanced approach so as not to compromise the functioning of businesses on the market. About that a little bit later. In particular, the strict regime will apply to companies with 100 per cent state ownership. They will be subject to the so-called pro-active transparency, which means that all their transactions will be published online, according to the domestic statement of the current Supervisor, which concerns only a narrower public sector, will also extend to enterprises owned by state, local communities. So much for the intro. Later in the debate, however, much more.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thanks for the introduction. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with the co-workers! When considering the proposed law, when it comes to changes and additions to the basic law, the Social Democrats are, in particular, reminded of what happens when they are treated on a regular basis. The initial proposal of the law, which received both the inter-resort coordination procedures and the public presentation – the tribunal, for example, was organised in this regard – where different stakeholders could make their comments, is the way that leads to the amended law, where the interested and professional public had the opportunity to comment. This is all the more important when it comes to the availability of information of a public nature in a law that I do not say expected and urgent. Why is this marriage so important? It has already been mentioned that the basic law of 2003 has also been an important step forward in the opening of data for citizens and citizens, bringing us closer to the fact that the State is a state institution because of people. And the right to access public information is a fundamental human right, as enshrined in the Constitution, in the second paragraph of Article 39, and this right constitutes a basis for the open, transparent and responsible functioning of public administration. This is of crucial importance to people. And it also follows that goal set by the government of Alenka Bratušek for a purpose; i.e. to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in the functioning of the state and its institutions. The proposed novel is intended to identify new public information commitments, to establish an official register of IJPES debtors and to set up centralised and uniform pro-active public disclosures of certain debtors, which will be achieved through the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. Social Democrats also adopt the objective of this law, which is defined as raising the degree of transparency in making business more efficient to manage and finance business entities under the dominant influence of public law. We are not plowing here, but this goal is similar with solutions in some other countries, such as Croatia, Great Britain, Denmark, Sweden, Serbia or even remote New Zealand. The solutions should help to create competitive market conditions, especially for small and medium-sized companies, especially when they want to operate with companies under the dominant influence of the State or of the local self-government communities. It is therefore a matter of ensuring a more competitive business environment. The second objective is to ensure the transparency of the remuneration of managers in state-owned companies and municipalities and to create conditions in which recruitment in these companies will be transparent. This should also lead to the objective of reaching individual leadership positions by people with adequate experience and quality leadership. All of this will also reduce corruption risks. However, it should also be stressed that only specific key information is identified as public information for new entrants, that new entrants are not burdened with administrative burdens and that the pro-active publication of absolute public expenditure data should avoid any burden on new entrants. This is to be achieved by means of a centralised and uniform way of publication. It has already been mentioned that corruption in Slovenia is a serious problem, and that is why the Social Democrats support every legal provision that allows the reduction of corruption risks and is on the way to reducing the level of corruption. Then perhaps the classification of Slovenia on various scales of corruption or corruption will be slightly more favourable, it is said that Slovenia will not be on the tail of these countries when individuals, including economic operators, perceive these changes and consider corruption to be less than in past demands. It is important for us that the applicant has taken into account the comments made by the interested public, but we have not overlooked this information that part of the comments, in particular the part which the applicant has failed to take into account, has promised to abolish in the next step when it also takes over the Public Sector Information Re-use Directive in 2014. Well, I should also like to draw attention to the comments of the information officer, which are taken into account in the proposal to a large extent, but we have not overlooked that the information officer points out and draws attention to some inappropriate solutions in another law, which is in the Slovenian State Holding Act. We also consider the promise of the reintroduction or implementation of the Re-use Directive to be important in 2014 due to the Ombudsman's comments, since the proposal to include new absolute exceptions under Article 6, which the Ombudsman warned the Ombudsman to not take into account, will, as it is said, need to be included in 2014, in order to enable the Ombudsman to perform his functions in an undiminished manner. Let me get this. In the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, the Social Democrats will be supported, but we expect that some of the comments below will be clarified to the extent that the consent of the public and the proposer, as well as the legislator, will be further enhanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will move forward with the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u26	. Mr President, the Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Article 39 of our Constitution in the second paragraph reads: "Everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature for which the law has a legitimate interest, except in cases provided for by law." And we are talking about the extent and manner of exercising this right of our citizens and citizens, as well as all other persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in the consideration of the novel which is before us today. To understand what this right contains, we must first know what information of a public nature actually means. It is provided for in Article 4 of the current law, which states that this is any information originating from the work area of the Authority, but exists as a document, case, file, record register or documentary material produced by the Authority itself, in cooperation with another body or obtained from other persons. The purpose of such an arrangement is to ensure the public and openness of public authorities, which are both consumers and users of public funds. And since taxpayers contribute to public finances, it is right to have the possibility and, of course, also the right to control the use of these funds. This is also intended to make public information accessible, but information of a public nature is subject to the provision of only public administrations under the current regime, but we know that public or public financial resources are not available and managed by public administration authorities, but also by companies in which the state, state authorities or local communities have a dominant influence. It is therefore right to monitor how public funds are spent, subject to such companies as well; and this is the main content of the amendment of the law. The practice shows that these companies are exposed to major corruption risks in terms of irrational spending, financial exhaustion of the company, questionable recapitalisations and poor management by public funds. On the other hand, such companies may also be favoured or in a monopolistic position in front of other economic operators, which is detrimental to the competitiveness of the latter and does not contribute to a healthy business environment. However, as economic operators are concerned, they will be obliged to provide public access to specific key information, namely information on concluded legal transactions relating to expenditure and real estate management, and information related to the level of remuneration and credit ratings, and data related to the recruitment of managers. The status of information of a public nature may also, following the novelty, obtain a specific category of information if it is given the dominant public interest to disclose it. The proposed legal solutions in the National Gazette are understood as contributing to greater transparency in terms of spending budgetary resources, which also means a step towards restoring the confidence of our citizens in our country's institutions and policies; a contribution to greater transparency in state-owned business operations, which also means their lower dependence on every day's current policy; and a step towards improving a healthy business environment. Not only the public and the media, including individual institutions such as the KPK, the Court of Auditors, the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, the AUKN and others have for a long time been alerting the need for transparent and public access to state-owned companies, to which a maximum degree of market and citizen confidence in the sound and sound functioning of these companies is being established. In the Civil Gazette, we support all efforts and activities in the fight against corruption and economic crime. We are confident that the proposed solutions will greatly help to reduce the risks of possible abuses, corruption and customerism, so of course they have our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an extensive novel of the Law on Access to Public Information, which comes to the hearing of the National Assembly in a very interesting time. Yesterday, we adopted changes in the field of political parties that limit their funding and should allow for greater transparency and reduction of corruption risks. More than that, however, the proposed law has been subject to political interference around the novel of the Slovenian State Holding Act, to which we have been witnessing for quite some time and according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group for much too long. Why did I point out exactly these two amendments to the legislation? The Law on Political Parties, because it essentially assessed transparency increases, is similar to the proposed amendment to the Public Information Access Act and the amendment to the Slovenian State Holding Act because it is inseparably linked to the Act under consideration. The proposed law has one essential objective, namely to increase transparency in the functioning of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, in particular companies owned directly or indirectly by the State. Such an increase in transparency would help to more effectively manage the assets and financial resources of those entities, which, of course, we welcome in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Nevertheless, we remain on solid ground, as in the past there have been numerous rules that have already been addressed and adopted, which have promised the same, and in the end there is not much left of all high-flying words. The proposaler, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, points out in the proposed material that, I quote, "...state enterprises are favoured in front of all other companies, creating poor competitive conditions for the remaining companies on the market and the lame functioning of mainly small and medium-sized enterprises." And it continues, I quote, "These reasons dictate the adoption of legislative measures that will help to increase the transparency of public companies and companies that are closely linked to the public sector. Through transparency and the establishment of direct responsibility against individuals, this is primarily for citizens and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, and there will also be less dependence on the impact of the current policy." End of quote. Interesting findings, especially in the fact that in the government and coalition we have a number of state-owned fighters who, in the past, some still have advocated state ownership as the only rescue, considered management to be the most effective, and compared only the indication of its privatisation even with high treason. The purpose of the proposed law is therefore to enhance transparency of business, public commitment, responsibility and integrity in the management of economic public institutions, public undertakings and businesses and other private legal persons under the dominant influence of the Republic of Slovenia, local self-government communities and other public law entities by establishing new public information obligations. The new entrants are thus, I quote, "... an economic company and other private legal persons under direct or indirect dominant influence, individually or collectively, the Republic of Slovenia, the self-government local communities and other persons of public law." End of quote. Simply put, these are all economic operators where the country or municipalities have a direct or indirect ownership share of more than 50%. The public will thus become information from the concluded legal business relating to the acquisition, disposal or management of the actual assets of a business entity or the expenditure of a business entity, such as the procurement of goods, works, agent and advisory services, sponsoring, donor and authorising contracts. In addition, information of a public nature will also provide information concerning membership, remuneration and ratings and the recruitment of members of management and supervisory authorities and other legal representatives of a business entity. Exceptions will be business secrets, personal data and the like. We do not, in principle, object to this in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but we wonder how such disclosures, although with some restrictions, will affect possible sales procedures for such economic operators. We know that sales procedures for major companies are complex, mainly based on business secrets and other sensitive data. However, with such disclosures and such transparency, which may be in the public interest, many may also question the procedure. In addition, the proposed law also makes it possible to make available to the public various personnel information such as information on the amount of agreed or paid remuneration or creditworthiness of a member of the management body, the managing authority, the other legitimate representative of a business entity, the member of the supervisory authority, and information relating to the recruitment of those persons from which the conditions and criteria for the recruitment of a particular function are evident. The public will thus be able to learn about the payment made to the management person immediately after the payment and not only once a year with the data for the previous year, or it will be possible to know in advance the agreed amount of the remuneration of the management person, that is, before this remuneration has been paid. This should also be important for agreed discharge amounts, since prior public awareness is essential to allow for controls on the adequacy and appropriateness of the intended remuneration. These changes should also help to create competitive market conditions, particularly for small and medium-sized companies wishing to operate or compete with companies under the dominant influence of the State or of the local self-government. To create a healthier business environment where competition will be free and the same market conditions for all will apply. In addition, the proposed law also establishes a register of public information committed to public information which will be made publicly and online. In addition to the commitments made so far, new undertakings will be included, i.e. business entities under the dominant influence of public law. Centralised communication of information of a public nature, a global network, through the recording of expenditure data, and certain administrative burdens relating to the implementation of the Public Information Access Act for new debtors is also possible. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information therefore brings a lot of changes that can severely shake the functioning of companies in majority state ownership, which we consider to be positive in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and we will not object to this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with co-workers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on Access to Public Information extends the obligation to provide such information from public sector bodies to enterprises owned by the State or municipalities. The applicant assesses that this should reduce the corruption risk. Since the entry into force of the Public Information Act 2003, all information on the functioning of the public sector has been made available to the general public. They are now public authorities, municipalities and other public entities, and this obligation will extend to undertakings and other legal persons in the direct or indirect majority ownership of the country or local communities by means of a new law. Citizens will thus have the right to know what is going on in these companies, how they are doing, what they are doing, what are the benefits and ratings of members of the boards and supervisory boards. The purpose of the amendment is to create conditions in which recruitment in these companies will be transparent and where the best individuals will come to these positions according to the experience required. The proposer also looks forward to creating competitive conditions on the market, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises that want to operate or compete with companies under the dominant influence of the State or the self-government local communities. For companies with 100 % national or local ownership, it will be mandatory to include in the Commission's anti-corruption application Supervisor, which now allows monitoring of all public sector transactions. Therefore, it will be possible to monitor all transactions of companies wholly owned by a country or municipalities where a potential loss of a lot of money may also be made, indirectly, of a budgetary nature. In the case of new entrants, the public will only be able to request access to specific key information such as real estate management contracts and expenditure such as contracts for goods, construction, agency and advisory services, sponsorship contracts, donor contracts and data on remuneration and staffing of management and members of the Supervisory Board. In order not to impose new administrative burdens on the debtors, the publication of absolute public expenditure data will be provided without any burden on new debtors, in a centralised and uniform manner through the Public Payments Authority. Although in practice that expenditure contract will still, in principle, be protected as a business secret, the amendment of the Public Information Access Act will clearly identify those data which are absolutely public and cannot, as a rule, represent business secrecy. These are basic data on transactions concluded, such as type of business, contractual value and value of individual payments, contractual partner and future plan. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are confident that different opinions will be drawn at this point. Many will believe that access to business data could reveal business secrets and thus endanger business, while others feel that the provisions of this law are a step towards greater transparency in the operations of state-owned enterprises and the reduction of corruption. This is also what we believe in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, so we will support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! A public survey of the global corruption parameter 2013, carried out by Transparency International, shows that corruption in Slovenia is a major problem. But we actually know that ourselves. At the presentation of the results, the Secretary-General of the Association of Integrity Vid Doria stressed this. In the last two years, corruption has increased in our countries, according to Slovenian respondents. The Commission is not surprised to avoid corruption over the results of the survey, it believes that this research shows that corruption in Slovenia is systemic and has a devastating impact on the rule of law and the social state. Therefore, the solution is not only in the greater effectiveness of detection and prosecution or justice authorities, but a significantly different approach to governance is needed, much more transparency of the integrity of political authorities, more transparent financing of political parties and in particular a different attitude towards state property. The current amendments and additions to the Public Information Access Act bring the necessary changes to the transparency of institutions managing state assets. These are public institutions, public companies and state-owned companies and the property of local communities. This enables the public to access data on their operations, in particular in the field of finance. These amendments and amendments to the law address the shortcomings of the current law in this area. In many cases, the disclosure of information on the work and operations of these entities will reveal corruption in the recruitment and implementation of procurement procedures, the irrational use of financial resources and the poor management of the management or administration of these institutions. It is the taxpayers who contribute to the state treasury and must be able to control the use of public funds. Equally over the assets and assets of companies owned by the State or local communities. Here we are Members of New Slovenia, paying particular attention and reminding us of solutions that should not go in this direction in order to harm the business of companies. We know exactly what business secrets are, as defined in the Company Act, and here the solutions must really be extremely clever. However, we would like to point out that in Novi Slovenija we have already warned about the problem of lack of public control over the operation of state-owned companies when adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act, so we have tabled an amendment in the legislative process proposing that data on state-owned companies should be published on the Slovenian State Holding website, following the example of the Supervisor application. This amendment was not supported by the ruling coalition at the time, and it is obvious that the Government, after receiving the Transparency International report in particular, recognized this initiative as appropriate and necessary and has now incorporated it into the new Law on Access to Public Information, which we welcome. Of course, exposed legislation will not produce results unless they are implemented in practice, which is a common phenomenon for us. It will therefore be necessary to ensure the implementation of these legal provisions in practice also through a more consistent sanctioning of non-compliance with the legal obligation, in particular by sanctioning those responsible. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Access to Public Information in the First Reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister in good company! The transparent, transparent and responsible functioning of public authorities, local authorities and all those directly or indirectly managing public funds is essential for economic development and the confidence of citizens and citizens in the economy, politics and the rule of law. The purpose of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information is to strengthen transparency of business, public commitment, accountability and integrity in governance. In addition to all measures relating to both the grey economy, the rehabilitation of the banking system, the black work, the more efficient tax procedure and other measures that would no longer be listed here, the new Act on Access to Public Information is therefore one of the steps aimed at accelerating the start of the economy on the one hand and the more transparent and responsible functioning of all those who manage public funds. Therefore, one of the main objectives of the proposal is to help more efficient asset and financial management of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons, in particular state-owned companies, by raising the level of transparency in the conclusion of transactions. On the other hand, this will also help to create competitive market conditions, especially for small and medium-sized companies that want to operate with or compete with companies under the dominant influence of the State or the local self-government. In short, in view of the remaining companies operating on the market, we want to create a more competitive business environment. By means of a proposal for a law, the group of debtors extends to economic companies and other private law entities under the direct or indirect influence of the Republic of Slovenia, the self-government local communities and other public law persons. Transparency with regard to the debtors shall be ensured through the establishment of a public and online register of public information debtors. The proposal also sets out the scope of information of a public nature for business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons. This is information relating, by content, to concluded legal transactions relating to the acquisition, disposal or management of real property or are related to the expenditure of a business entity, such as contracts for goods, construction, agent and advisory services, sponsorship, donor and copyright contracts. The circle of absolutely freely available information of a public nature of business entities is also set out under the dominant influence of public law persons. These are basic information on the legal transactions concluded concerning the management of assets and expenditure and business facilities, information on the amount of agreed and paid benefits and credit ratings, and certain information concerning the recruitment of members of the management body, the management body, other legal representatives and also members of the supervisory authority. In Positive Slovenia, we certainly support the objectives set out in the proposal, and we are aware that there is an urgent need for greater transparency today, but we are also aware that measures must be proportionate and must contain safeguards against abuse. For companies in which a country or local community has a dominant influence, it is necessary to be aware that these legal persons are free to enter a competitive market and that it is therefore absolutely necessary not to put them in an unequal position by means of amendments. In our view, it is therefore necessary to examine in more detail whether the proposed solutions contain appropriate safeguards to prevent the use of such information for the purposes of secret competition. This is a sensitive area where it is particularly important to analyse the possible negative effects on a competing entity and on the conclusion of legal transactions. As has already been said, in Positive Slovenia we are aware that the transparent, transparent and responsible functioning of all those managing public funds is essential for a healthy and competitive economy, so we will support the proposal for a Law on Change and Complementation of the Law on Access to Public Information. In the next step, we expect to receive answers to some of our concerns, so that the legal proposal will be further improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr President, Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information was forwarded to the Government for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly 7. Ten. 2013 The right to information of a public nature is a fundamental human right guaranteed in Article 39(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and constitutes a key means in the fight for the open, transparent and responsible functioning of public administration. This right has already been clarified by the adoption of the Public Information Access Act in 2003 and supplemented both in 2005 and 2006, which has been mentioned several times in previous discussions. The mere exercise of the right to information of a public nature does not, of course, achieve that the public administration would be fully open and would ensure that its work is made public in all respects. In practice, as the drafter has also stated, the shortcomings of the rules in force are identified in particular as regards the cycle of bodies bound. The current law also binds only bodies that manage and carry out public tasks, but not all those that manage public funds or finance owned by the State, self-government local communities or other persons governed by public law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly pointed out that companies in which the state or state authorities have the dominant influence should also be involved in the circle of the debtors, and in particular that banks in which the state has the dominant influence, or banks in which the controlled liquidation or bankruptcy is carried out, should also be brought to justice by means of all citizens and citizens or taxpayers. Other authorities have also pointed to this problem. In particular, it seems to us that it is not possible to obtain data on illegal banking transactions in which State property is damaged, or data relating to suspected crimes, the granting of bad credits in so-called tycoon stories, and access to such data is denied even to the investigating commission of the National Assembly. In our Group of Members, we welcome the extension of the circle of debtors to economic societies and other private legal persons under direct or indirect dominant influence, individually or collectively, of self-government communities and other persons of public law. We also support the establishment of a public and online register of public information debtors to ensure, in particular, the transparency of the public information obligations through this portal, which will include the debtors under the law currently in force and new entrants or business entities under the dominant influence of public law. It is certainly necessary to establish the scope of information of a public nature of a business entity under the dominant influence of a public authority and to establish a set of absolutely freely available public information of the nature of those business entities. That is why we welcome these solutions. In our parliamentary group, we have repeatedly warned and proposed that information on the amount of agreed and paid benefits and ratings should be available, as well as information on the recruitment of members of management bodies, management bodies and other legal representatives and members of supervisory bodies, which the drafter has also included in this amendment of the law, as well as the removal of certain administrative burdens. An assessment of the financial implications of the draft law on the State budget and other public funds suggests that the amendment of the law will result in costs for the operation of an information officer or an authorised person, given the new additional employment that will be required, amounting to EUR 35,000. Given that we are in favour of a weak and effective public administration or public administration in our Group of Members, we propose that the Information Commissioner should not be given a new job, but rather that an appropriate transfer of a public servant or staff member from another State authority be made, which must, of course, meet all the conditions laid down to ensure that there is no increase in the number of employees in the State Administration. Finally, I would like to point out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, of course, we support all the objectives set by this law, namely transparency of business, public commitment, responsibility and integrity in governance, so we will not oppose the proposed solutions in the first reading. We warn, however, that there are still gray foxes and that these grey foxes should also be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. He wants maybe at this stage of the Minister's word or we go first. You want the word. [[...]] Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you. In short, I would like to say that I am very impressed, and I did not expect such broad support from all the groups of Members. I hope it stays until the second reading of the law. I must say that this is a courageous act of policy, in fact it is a law that will do much for the openness and transparency of state-owned companies. We know, no matter how fast and how much we privatise state-owned enterprises, that a large part of these companies will remain publicly owned for some time. Some of us advocate that the country withdraw from these companies as quickly as possible, others may be a little slower to withdraw or not at all. In any event, the state will continue to manage a substantial portion of the property for some time. It is therefore extremely important to strengthen the quality of corporate governance in these companies during this period. One important step towards this will certainly be the Slovenian State Holding Act and another important step is this new Law on Access to Public Information because it opens the curtain or opens the veil of secrets from the operation of these companies. I must point out that there has been quite a bit of discussion about one provision of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which would, in fact, destroy the effects of this law that we are considering today. In fact, the draft law on SDH contains one provision which stated that SDH itself is subject to public information and that it does not apply to the companies it manages. And all that we are doing today would be deleted by one move, if we adopted that provision. It is therefore right that the Information Commissioner has called and then the Minister of Finance has taken this into account and in the latest version, you will get it to the National Assembly, this provision is deleted and businesses will therefore be fully subject to the Public Information Access Act. In particular, I must point out that we have worked intensively with both the Information Commissioner and the Anti-Corruption Commission to prepare this law. The information officer will get a lot of new work, a lot of new powers, because, believe me, administrations will sometimes resist all sorts of squabbling to give away documents and data. Where they have a bad conscience, they're gonna have a hard time getting their papers. And then the information officer or the information officer will play the game, as it does, and by its decision will force the administrations of these companies to disclose the documentation. Therefore, it seems to me that this investment in one job with the information officer will bear fruit and that I will return to us repeatedly. Ms Potrata mentioned coordination for the Ombudsman. In fact, from there came a comment in this direction that proceedings against the guardian would be completely secret. So that they would not be subject to access to information of a public nature. However, we have explained to the Ombudsman that there is, of course, an exception now that says that information is not disclosed if its disclosure would harm the course of the proceedings — any: criminal, predictive, just or proceedings against the Ombudsman. In such cases, therefore, there is no disclosure and the interest of the procedure is guaranteed, secured. I would also like to say what I failed in the introduction because of the time limit. On the basis of the law, a register will be set up of those who are liable to access information of a public nature. Today, unfortunately, we do not have accurate and transparent data on how many companies we have, which are in the majority or under the direct or indirect dominant influence of the country, not just businesses, all legal persons. We've got an update. We know how many are in state ownership or municipal ownership, and then in the case of subsidiaries and grandchildren and grandchildren and so on, the side is lost. Our estimate is that this number is moving somewhere to 600 plus, 600 and 800. Under the law, the IJPES will establish a register where we will have accurate information on this matter. Many of you have mentioned the Supervisor application today. This has brought positive effects, major positive effects, a high degree of transparency in the business of the public sector. This law now builds on the Supervisor, or we can call it the same, because of me, but the Public Payments Authority will publish on its website all transactions of public companies and businesses in 100% state and municipal ownership. This pro-active transparency will apply in the first phase to this circle, it is said, 100 % property. Based on this, there will be a lot of analysis to be done and, in particular, it will be interesting to see how the exchange of power is taking place in a circle of companies with a frenzied increase in business results. When one authority comes, one group of companies is always very successful all of a sudden. When I switch power and all the curves turn down to these companies, other companies come up. And so for analysts and investigative journalists, this will be a very interesting study material. Well, thanks again for your support. Of course, we will be very pleased to examine all the amendments you will table for the second reading, and I am counting on this law to be adopted unanimously at the end. That would be very nice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you, too, at this stage. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u41	Just a minute. Get ready for Dr. László Göncz. Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u42	Why is it so important that we try to deal with these matters? Not only because these public companies can or are corrupt, but also because these companies will be owned by the state, directly or indirectly, more and more. We are not able to sell or very few companies, we are not able to agree on this; and not only will we get them further through the bad banks, through the conversions of claims in bankruptcy proceedings, we will also get them through the claims that the Tax Administration will have and through the recovery. So this sector is going to grow for us. The next reason is the poor performance of these companies. They manage 12 billion assets, and in some other times or good companies still have the ambition to follow some incomes that are on average 8% per capital. In this case, given that we are talking about monopolies, privileged companies, of course, we could reasonably expect, not expect, to require these companies to contribute a billion euro to our budget for profits and taxes paid. And that's exactly the billions of euros we're missing right now. The poor supervision of these companies is, of course, conditional on the fact that we refer to the supervisory councils awkwardly, even if we refer to them awkwardly, then we change them every three days, we appoint the presidents of administrations and administrations every two days, and all of this is actually the ideal basis for not functioning. The government has no possibility of affecting businesses, it is too far away, and the supervisory councils are not functioning well and, in fact, if we can't, and we already understand that, and then we have 2 million additional supervisors, who will also be able to look at what these companies have asked and so on. It also counts on investigative journalism to be constructively helpful here. The weakest members of these companies are exactly donors, sponsors, authors, business contracts, advisory contracts, lawyers, notaries. Who are all these favoured companies that have the opportunity to serve well at the expense of state-owned enterprises and to operate with them? What are these ratings, how do they frame themselves in these companies, how do people get to work? Is that transparent, or is that domestic, or is that friendly? And so on. Real estate management — at what cost these companies are buying and selling their assets; we never knew that. And here is the time and opportunity to make a substantial leap. Of course, not every thing will be publicly available. We have two basic rules in the Company Act: we have a business secret that is already defined by law as a business secret, a business secret "be" and we have the opportunity to have the board and the supervisory board determine which points, which acts, which contractual relations are those that deserve the status of business secrecy. That's actually the way it's gonna be for everyone to see. What are the concerns that suggest that this thing may not be very good? Some say that the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative is not limited in any way in this matter. The principle of equality – not here either, but we have another problem; these companies are in some privileged position, given that companies have the dominant or exclusive influence of the state. There's some inequality here, but in the opposite direction. An additional burden on companies which will have to disclose. These companies already have too many employees and if each company risks one for this purpose – and it is clear that these companies have strong business departments or public relations – there will be no more problems here. One of the signs is that culture and sport will no longer be financed. Culture and sport must be financed transparently, from the budgets of local communities, from the country's budget, and it will be possible to finance more from where it is needed where it is transparent, not from where it is not transparent. Luka Koper, a sponsoring contract with a local club to actually promote this local club Luka Koper, which is a monopolist. What added value is that now? And vice versa. State monopolies spend money on advertising, propaganda and so on. Wrong world. All this money, which crawls through some channels in every way possible, needs to concentrate and must come in the form of profits and paid contributions, taxes and so on into the budget and from the budget the state will finance everything that must be financed transparently, publicly and fairly. And this is the added value that this new law brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you, too. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Get ready, Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I, too, am pleased to note that there is a considerable degree of readiness in this proposal for support, which testifies to the fact that the proposal is relatively well prepared. A number of specific things, which I have pointed out myself, have been mentioned, so I would not like to put particular emphasis on specifics. In particular, I would like to point out that there is no doubt that the transparency of the presentation of activities – including the financial operations of public enterprises, such as those and others – is a question that is often asked to the public today or is not recognised because of the abuses that have taken place in the past in one way or another. In short, this law, in its provisions, highlights this transparency, foresees positive effects that we can trust to some extent. Nevertheless, I would point out only one area that I believe we can upgrade at the time of the adoption of the law. That is, the area of supervisor or any other system in this context has been mentioned several times today. In this regard, I believe that there may be some shortcomings in this law as well, and some precision would still need to avoid the abuse of data that can also harm business and society itself as such. Otherwise, I do not want to introduce into the consideration of this law some specifics from some other areas which are less related to the functioning of public undertakings and similar institutions, but we must be aware that if information sent to the public is lacking or poorly interpreted, such abuses may also occur, which then prevent individuals or businesses from doing business in particular in favour of actually making the company more successful. From this point of view, I propose that, above all, this placement of public data be further developed and that all abuses that can be taken into account are excluded. Indeed, I also see that the importance and role of the information officer and other competent authorities, including on the basis of the proposal for a law, will be even greater, which is to be welcomed, and I hope that they will also be able to quantify these activities, because it is likely to be stronger too. But, as I have already pointed out, certain systemic solutions are still lacking in me at this stage, and I hope that they will be upgraded at the home working body or in the adoption phase so that this law is actually directed towards what it is primarily aimed at, and this is undoubtedly a more successful operation of businesses and greater transparency and transparency of all citizens in this area, which is of paramount importance in terms of efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. But get ready, mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! There seems to be some optimism in this room today that we will only move some things from a dead point. We probably all want to live in a country where honesty is a virtue, and those who come into politics at any time or in the economy, into societies owned by the country, will have to read it first, and then enter into this activity – or stay private, without control and so on. It won't be possible anymore: "I bought a car, but I don't know who paid me half, and my apartment fell out of the sky," and so on. It can't be in politics anymore. It's over! Let us remember how difficult it is for us to impose a property tax. I only hope that this problem will also bring about the fact that he – we always say that the farmer there in the hard-to-live hills – will be difficult to pay 100 euros for the property tax, but he will be careful what the mayor does, what the MP does, what the director of the public office does, and so on. To bring this consciousness into our society so that it is not worthwhile for a mayor to do something foreign, to give someone – because we know what role they play in the local community, how much investment and how much everything and what can happen. That's my hope. I know this can't happen overnight, but one step is here. Daily we witness the abuse of positions, corruption, unreasonable wealth and so forth, not those craftsmen, workers serving with their stingy bread. Other people. I think it needs to be stopped. Actually, I'm really disappointed when I see someone sell the land, and it's not his, and something else. This cannot be in some orderly society; and we are a small country, in fact, all of us know each other. If I go to Celje, I'll meet 20 people I can shake hands with, and we know each other, etc. So, Minister, I think that this law is absolutely necessary to be careful, even though the colleague has explained the second picture, but I ask whether companies owned by the State will be equal to those owned by private companies because they will be exposed to precision – and so is the case. But they'll always be able to hide something, and there'll be nothing against the law. Me too, Mirko Brulc, my property, my salary, my income, I don't know what – this has to be clean! I agree. But where it's not clean, there's gonna be steps to eliminate it. I think it's going to be hard for the President of the Government to get an economy minister, too, because if he's an expert, he sees himself, then he has a company, and I don't know what he has, and then when he enters that bench, he makes an inventory. And then if he fails one small thing, he has to go; and that's right. It will therefore be difficult for those who come into politics and want to go into politics if they have had some strange ways before, etc. We will see how in the second reading, I hope that at that time we will speak more specifically about the articles and put things into practice and that this law will be adopted and that it will bring a variety of innovations to the relations I have been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you. The word has magic. Katarina Hočevar, get Mr. Ivan Hršak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I welcome the Minister and all the colleagues and colleagues present! When we weigh the usefulness between the public disclosure of certain data from state-owned enterprises and the potential problems that such disclosure brings to the business of these companies, the result is clear – in the interest of public disclosure! We are always in the Citizens' List, and we will advocate that only the strategically needed enterprises remain in state ownership. This step is also seen as the first step in getting companies to have the right owners to lead them into new development, and not those to be targeted at sponsoring the privileged or those who do so. By publicly disclosing this information, I believe that we are cutting the cord between the first and the second. Such an idea was supported by both the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Information Commissioners. It has been pointed out several times in the past that the state with the current regime somehow allows for the laundering of public money. There are many cases when municipalities, public institutions establish companies with limited liability, which are completely hidden from the public eye, allowing fishing in mud at the expense of taxpayers. According to some data, these entities, these companies, as many as 800 companies, are in one way closely linked to the country and to tax money, but so far they have not had to disclose expenditure contracts such as goods contracts, construction works, advisory services and, of course, sponsorships. These companies had virtually no need to disclose data, not about the ratings of the administrations, of the supervisory boards. A typical example of a cash void from which we don't get any information is, for example, NLB. The public is properly informed when this bank needs tax money to recapitalise. However, when it is necessary to say for what purposes the administration needs money, access to this information is quite limited. So it seems to us in one way when we read this novel of law, dry, uninteresting, but for these reasons, which I listed, I think is an important step towards persecuting the common fog of Slovenian state ownership and the waste of tax money. Taxpayers are those who contribute money to the state treasury, from which, in fact recently, there has been a need for state-owned enterprises and therefore must be able to monitor how these public funds are being used or not being abused. Of course, the aim of the law is not to be headlessly spying on state-owned enterprises, but to allow access to information whose disclosure would be in the public interest if it indicated a possible violation of the law or good business practices, and thus, of course, the harmful use of tax money. I also feel that the new law is good because it seeks or advocates a transparent restriction on the influence of policies and the disemboweling of money from state-owned enterprises in order to finally prevent it. The time has come for us to find out about the advisory treaties and other legal manoeuvres that enable us to draw money, and this law, I think, is a tool that will allow us to do so. Simply put, I think this law is another smart law or solution from Virant's sleeve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak could have a word, but he is not currently in the Chamber. You might as well have the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, he's not here. That's why I give the floor to Dr. Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your word, Mr President, and a very nice greeting to all of you. I am joining all those who are looking quite optimistically at the changes and additions to the Public Information Access Act today, because these changes really lead to new possibilities for opening up such information. It is also important that we have reached out to the new debtors represented by companies and other legal persons established in the country or in the local self-government communities. However, we must not ignore that part of this article, which says that under the influence of this law there will be those economic societies that are under the direct or indirect dominant influence of the State. This means that not all companies will already be bound by this law, but those, as the applicants say, who have a majority of the subscribed capital by the State or local communities or have more than half of the members of the business authority by the State or have a majority ownership of more than 50 %. With these warnings, how important it is to be transparent when it comes to spending public money, I would point out two points in this law, which also points to the dark side of access to public information. Usually such small, seemingly minor parts of the law in such debates as we have today, ignore or fail to notice. In practice, however, those who have to enforce such a law often face major problems, practical problems, how to give information of a public nature to someone who wants to abuse it and who can also feel it or see it. In these amendments and additions to the law, the applicants have listened to some of the purposes of the Act, namely Article 6 of this Act, which complements the old law or the existing existing law in Article 5, by Article 5, which states that the Authority may exceptionally refuse access to the information requested, of course in very specific circumstances, and of course also point out that this must be done after a very detailed assessment. Those we have worked on the other hand are said to be in the public administration, we know that there are individuals who, in one particular way, are being bullied especially by superiors, by systematically applying for a long time for information of a public nature on specific data on a specific person. Then data of a humane character on wages, on other payments are used for different records, either on web portals, in different not more anonymous ones, in media records and so on. In this new 6th indent, the applicant shall, for the time being, limit or limit the right of access to the information requested to those who systematically for a long time and repeatedly fill the body with certain requirements and are in fact trying to disable the functionality of that body. Apparently, there's been a case like this in the past, and now you're trying to stop it with the sixth indent. I would like to point out that, in addition to such cases, there are also cases of those who, systematically for longer than I said, require certain data and then use it and abuse it. It is said that when we have such a law before us, we must not only see these good salaries of transparency, openness and so forth, but we must also understand that there are people in all our services who abuse the possibility of openness for some of their own personal purposes. That's what I'm warning you. However, I know that it is not easy to find a way to confront such individuals who can also abuse such a positive law as the Law on the Right to Access Public Information. The second point that I would like to draw attention to and probably will remain hidden from our eyes is related to what is now referred to in Article 4 and also to the addition of Article 4, and it concerns archival material, and the second indent mentions the issue of archival material. The Basic Law essentially protected that archival material that is stored in public archival services, so to speak, the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. His materials are not material that means information of a public nature. The addition now also refers to archival material that can be stored in its own storage, of course in accordance with the law governing the archive material. This second law will also be discussed in these days or today. I think that this, although a very short new dictatorship, is very important, because we know that all state authorities have to make their own archives. There are also many times that there is one part of the archive that some state authorities would be happy to place in the archives of the Republic of Slovenia, and this, at least until recently, was not too interested in any particular kind of hot bone. I would like to draw attention to documents in the field of arms trafficking. These documents exist with different authorities, from intelligence services to different ministries, are suitable for transfer to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, some are also state secrets, but the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia have not been interested in the transfer of all these data or documents for a long time, due to restrictions on their technical capacity to protect such data. And it happened that these documents, even though they were regulated by the rules laid down in the Archive Archive Act, were in their own storage with the authorities of the state administration, for example in the intelligence services, and since this article, the second indent of Article 4, did not exclude material in its own storage, these materials were made available under the Public Information Access Act. In fact, it was not possible to protect them because the legislation somehow did not see them or, if I was specific, overlooked them. I think that this solution, which is now written here, allows, however, that if the State authorities adhere to the law applicable to the work with the archives and have the appropriate permission to do so, it is said that the relevant authority may also issue such a permit to them, but it can also, in its own context, thus in its capacities, premises, keep such material and it is also in some sense protected from the requirements of public information. I support, as I say, this law and I think it's suitable for a second treatment. Whether it is yet to be complemented or whether its ambitions will be even greater after its completion than what has already been written, we will see. Indeed, it was clear from the material that some are still not entirely satisfied with the inclusion of companies under this law, where the dominant influence of the State is. Some would like to see all companies, regardless of the percentage of capital held by the State, that all such companies are bound by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! I am also optimistic about the fact that in this first reading of the new Law on Access to Public Information, there is actually consensual support for this law. I will begin with the famous Slovenian river: Examples draw, actions move. And as an example, allow me first the case. One of the ministers of one of the Nordic states, because you know this story, she bought chocolate for her daughter at the airport when she was coming home, and then when she noticed or reminded her that she had paid for this chocolate with a business card, she resigned the next day. This card probably wasn't worth €348,000, but this is the case that I've been talking about for the last few days; politics stands and falls on ethics. And when we're talking about this law and when we're talking about public institutions, about state-owned enterprises, or about companies owned by local communities, I can only go on here: the director of such a company stands and falls on ethics. Here we are, of course, that for the good intentions of this marriage, the minister even gives him a attachment, perhaps a revolutionary law, I would be very happy that very quickly all of us, who are electors or someone else, would trust important functions to not only stick to this law but also to change our minds. Here I say that normal moral principles have been set above the law and when we talk about these issues, we are already on the issue of education and so on. However, I would not like to see this debate in the context of today's amendment to the law. If I'm back to setting the example now, it's either the country or, if you want, the one who has to set the example. We are in the last days of mourning, and my heart is truly broken here, bearing witness to bad examples. The country is in some strange, secret, mysterious way in debt. First, I received information that the commission was only 38 million, yesterday on national television, which we all pay, the broadcaster said, I am speaking from memory that the commission was supposed to be 60 million euros. That may be true, maybe this is normal, but at least we Members would like to know the truth, not just us, all taxpayers in this country need to know clearly who bought these bonds and how much these bonds cost us. The government should have convinced us that this transaction was the best for the best and for the best. And here's my problem, if this marriage is over, then I'm the first to congratulate the proposer of this law. Today there was also talk about banks, which is actually our biggest problem in terms of the development of the economic sector, and as a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which is supposed to come to the bottom, to the names and surnames of those people who have spent, to break down our banking system, then simply come along, run into the wall and get no information. Who are these people who actually signed, maybe didn't sign, but at some of the meetings that one of them recorded, one of them, at the credit committee meetings, on the credit boards, they actually distributed 1.6 billion euros of credit? And we don't get the data! And we don't know who the grey eminences of the Slovenian banking system are! Once again, and I conclude, I am pleased that the bill-maker has taken our idea that the application of the Supervisor is actually being made in the case of state-owned companies, that, in fact, as someone said, 2 million supervisors can see how this company operates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Mr Marko Pavlišič is next, then Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Why is open information important? Not only is it a post-festum search after what someone has given to someone, what someone has received from someone, but it is also a preventive action, and this is an even more important aspect to me. Because if someone signs a sponsor or a legal counseling contract or something like that. He will certainly consider this information three times in advance. Before he signs it. This preventive part of this law, or what we provide for open information, is more important than what, say, post-festum work. I believe that if this part is accepted, then this post review festival will not even be necessary, because there will be self-prevention with the signatories. This proposal is obvious that sports and other organisations will suffer if they no longer receive donations from companies, state-owned enterprises in this case. Here I must point out that the sponsorship of sports and other organisations in the world is somehow stable and that they love to do it and that they love to say that they do it and that it is written on every one of their jerseys, it says on the boards that are then at the stadiums and in many other places. That's what companies are bragging about. Last but not least, we have such a case in Slovenia, when Luka Koper recently signed a sponsorship with a football club and publicly praised it. And there's nothing wrong with that. There's absolutely nothing wrong with that. I do not want to judge here whether it is right or wrong to sponsor sports societies and other organisations, but it is right to know that when this happens, we know it. And that's the purpose of this law. If, until now, directors of state-owned enterprises have signed contracts that they are ashamed of and therefore hide them, then I hope that, after the adoption of this law, they will cease to do so; they will only sign those treaties that will not be ashamed of them. The law is also evident, mainly by the Chamber of Commerce, in order to make it difficult for companies to work. To which companies this will make it difficult to do — most of all those who should have left a secure country long ago, and we honestly wonder whose interests they are working in. In my view, the Chamber of Commerce should be primarily represented by private companies, pro-pulsive, start-up companies, so to speak, those companies that reach a high level of added value on the world market. State-owned companies already have enough, even too much support in politics. The question is also whether we are satisfied with the current situation in this area. We didn't, and we have to do something. Even more the right path today would be to privatise all non-strategic companies now state-owned. However, this is going slowly and until then, this change needs a step forward and an important step forward, which I hope will also accelerate the other steps that will follow. Finally, we must also ask Members whose side we are on. Are we on the side of citizens or are we on the side of privileged people who are allegedly powered by state and parastatal companies? Why is it supposed to be? Because we don't really know if it's true. And that's the purpose of this law to find out what's true. However, information from the media and various professional organisations is very clear. The high level of corruption and similar matters is mentioned, and this assumption is likely to be highly justified. It is therefore necessary to amend this law, which has been in force for about 10 years or just over 10 years and whose results we have already seen in a number of cases. Last but not least, the already mentioned Supervisor application has been given a particularly positive response in this regard. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we must be aware that data and information are tools and weapons of the 21st century. Last but not least, this is shown by the affairs and responses to them, such as Wikileaks or what has now been associated with Snowdno around these matters. Data and information are weapons against non-transparency, anti-corruption and anti-counsel capitalism. Therefore, this law must be supported not only in the first reading but also in all further readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We have before us a law to contribute, and I hope it will contribute to increasing transparency in a society that has unfortunately slipped in the field of value. In recent years, we have indeed witnessed the erosion of values. What happens to us today seemed to me when I matured, say, graduated, that it was incomprehensible and unimaginable that such corruption would happen, such a place of money. I was sure that Slovenians were so honest if I used that word that it was practically impossible for this to occur at all times in society. But now we are faced with a terrible situation, and as I said, I hope that this law, which extends the field of transparency to these companies in the dominant state ownership, is needed to improve it and such a law is needed. Although the law is a victim, I think, of complicated, highly sophisticated terminology in many other laws, in the Law on takeovers, in the Law on Economic Companies and all of this is passed on and our language is broken in all of this. I think that such laws have been very easy to write, but this has obviously been in the interest of the constituents of these laws to use Latvian as much as possible, and some new concepts have been introduced and I do not know what and it is difficult for an ordinary reader to understand this law. But you should be crystal clear. I like that this field is expanding here, so that these data will be, for such companies that fall under this law: remuneration, ratings, and in terms of staffing and administration, and in terms of income, all of this – and supervisors. For, behold, now occasionally after some companies they have published annual wages, and also rewards. This year, it was announced that the Director of the Soda, who is now the same as he was in 2012, received, I think, 82 000 Euros of the annual prize. In conditions where his company can't even argue that I don't know how it worked. And the three-member board over 220,000 awards. I hope that such anomalies as the fact that these gentlemen, such as Mr Kuntarič, will pay such a terrible reward in these circumstances, in addition to the basic salary which is so high for us Members, I do not know how many times our salary – that it will be a little more clear that this will be a supervisor, that it will be permanently published, that it will lead to some normalisation here. On the other hand, I wonder what this law will do for us — let us say that the minister has given him to write with absolute good intentions and that he is confident of it — when we have seen in the past days, and we can still see that in the present government, he does not know what the right hand is doing. This case of State indebtedness under these terrible conditions is a drastic case. That this was about dirty business, it's for sure. That we now hear daily information about the normal Slovenian desperate commissions and that it was likely that the country had bought the former money of our banks and that now came the repurchase or debt. But they will pay future generations and we will pay if they are able to pay if they are not all forced to go abroad to economic migration. Therefore, I do not know who can give me a firm assurance that this law will contribute to the fact that such anomalies will not happen. And here we're talking about greater publicity and transparency, publishing the data, and there the state won't tell us where she took the money, with whom she made the deal. After the conclusion, not in the preparatory phase, we can no longer influence negotiations or anything harmful, but protect someone or those who were there to protect themselves. The law also states that, when disclosure is of great public interest, various programmes, strategies, arrangements and so on will also be revealed. These things can be business secrets, and I believe they're a lot of business secrets, and every company has them, every company. It is true that this has been abused and benefited us in such a way that fictitious strategies, fictitious programmes, fictitious studies have done much and have been used. I have not been able to find out enough how this express public interest will determine who will bless it. And I am aware of the need to look out for an economic society, or a public institution, or anything that would not endanger his business interests, but that a balance must be found here. It is not entirely clear to me who will set out a strong public interest. It would be in order for the appointments of those who would determine to be made by the government not to be entrusted to another institution, but also to the choice of those people. Earlier, colleague Jelusic discussed a good solution, which is in Article 4 concerning archival materials. This refers already to this solution, which will be found in the Archives Act, which we will also have today in consideration, which allows or provides for the so-called Public - Private Storage Institute in Article 4. I need to see my own temple! [[…]] Of course, my own storage, I couldn't remember the term. I have listened to my colleague, and I know that both she and everyone who discussed today are talking about interest and transparency, I can trust them all. However, before I heard her debate, I was afraid that it was not really closing some of the cases, because then it was no longer information of a public nature and was not possible to look at them. This doctrine, which is not in law, as far as I have seen through the archives, but it has appeared in this law, can also be an excuse to close information that is public in nature, so it is positive and minus. I have to change my mind. Of course, now that some intelligence is concerned, this can be very positive, but it can also be very negative, because someone under this own storage will also hide information that could be of a public nature, which are illegal, which are so-called illegal secrets, and this will protect them that the public will not know about them. Let me say that I hope that to the state of the spirit, to the image, to the values of this country, this law and its enforcement – I hope that it will help to make a difference. That's what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. The next is Mrs Marija Plevčak, then Kristina Valenčič and Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you for your word and a lovely greeting to the audience! The law we have on the table today is, in my opinion, too late. I think that we have spent a lot of time in these 20 years since we gained our independence, and that in this time we have had a lot of this property, which we would like to protect and manage better today, has slipped out of hand; the rest is in certain areas, to which they have helped us in this time with a very late knowledge that this state property is being severely violated. It is true that the law that is coming today is necessary, necessary, and I hope that it will contribute to a more transparent work of all those public formations, businesses, institutions, state-owned enterprises, banks in order to receive a review. However, I still believe that the first task of leading all these public enterprises and all public institutions, institutions, will be appropriate or that it will be fair to run these companies. That is said, administrations that should be trained, not set up by policy. I feel the same way about the composition of the supervisory boards. We need good economic governance structures if we are to move the matter from the dead. Of course, there is a need for control that has not been exercised so far. We had no control over the payment of wages if we just looked at some of the information that personal incomes have paid and the supervisors and administrations that are rewards. I still think that everyone who receives personal income for his job is properly assessed. I don't mind if the company successfully operates to get a reward, to get a retirement from the company, but in our cases this is small, but the retirement and high personal incomes remain. All of this undermines our positive operation of these companies, their business success. As regards information of a public nature, I think that each company has certain business secrets. In these companies, too, it is necessary to distinguish between what is the confidentiality that cannot or should not be made available to the public by the supervisory authority, but, of course, if irregularities are detected, we also have appropriate other authorities to do so immediately. I don't think our responsibility is yet on the right level. Once we achieve that people will feel that they belong to the company, that they work for it, for the country, then the relationship to all these institutions and to their work will be as it should be and is expected to be. I therefore stress once again: all these leading positions must be given to professional people — not from politics! – to ensure and carry out or speed up the work of these people. He who works honestly does not need to be afraid of being caught in the information, but he knows that he can say: we do well or we do not work, we have problems here and here. Here's the information that people are interested in, that they want to know how this bank and this bank are doing, if we're at the banks right now. Of course, what has been said also exists behind banks with certain secrets and secrets. I think this marriage is certainly welcome. It needs to be supported, and perhaps some things need to be further worked out, since some specific cases are already listed in the law, perhaps there is something else that needs to be added. I didn't look at it exactly. Of course, I think that certain sanctions must then be included in the law. I don't know if they are, because this is also part of this legislation that we are discussing today. I certainly welcome the draft of this law, it is likely that additions will be made, and we will also discuss this on various committees and, if necessary, complement any amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Plevčak. Ms Kristina Valenčič is next and then Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first express our satisfaction that we have adopted a law or amendments to the Political Parties Act yesterday, as we have shown that policy is also committed to transparent business and that we do not support politicians inadvertently, unjustifiablely, unintended or conflict of interest in the use of public funds. The Law on Access to Public Information is only a step further in the direction of openness and transparency of business, as it extends the range of taxpayers to companies in majority state or municipal ownership. Already, the birds on the branch are squinting that there is a lot of corruption and customerism in our society, that we can only get to work through relationships and knowledge that tax money is not treated with all due diligence, that almost daily media report either political recruitment or the financial benefits of public money individuals. I suppose I could count on the fingers of one hand the larger state investments, which did not result in a large overestimation of the estimated value of the project, to make great use of individuals, so of course I welcome and support the proposed solutions, as they will contribute greatly to the fact that the transactions will not be concluded under the table. And because we are so eager to look at others, let me say that in some Scandinavian countries, not only state-owned companies but also privately owned companies in the field of energy are subject to public scrutiny. Even in Serbia, for example, all companies whose founder is a state or municipality are already committed. But it is true that marriage itself will not save everything. It is important, for the first time, to implement the law consistently in practice, because we are talking mainly about the integrity of the leaders, their honesty and, of course, due diligence, it is clear that if they do not carry it within them, no law will help us. It is therefore right to let law enforcement and judicial authorities do their job. Politics by interfering with it certainly doesn't help. Since we have shown at the time of our independence that as a country we do not know how to be a good host, I see it as the only appropriate solution for the country to withdraw from the economy as soon as possible. Economists themselves say that any measure that contributes to greater transparency in the operations of any entity, regardless of the ownership and efficiency of the markets, is a good measure. It is right to do everything we can to prevent political and interesting recruitment, customerism and the exhaustion of state and municipal enterprises. Let openness, honesty and a healthy business environment become a practice in our society as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ma'am or mag. Majda Potrat, then Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mrs Kristina Valenčič mentioned what I was thinking about myself. When we want to reduce corruption, disclosure of information related to public funds is of paramount importance. But it seems to me that, to the same extent, data should also be made available to the public relating to those activities that are essential to citizens and have a significant impact on their lives, even though this activity is not in the majority share of state ownership. What was an example — energy — would be found in such a way that there is no incentive or oversupply of offers or prices, which then harms people. Surely there are tools, and if you want to think about whether a marriage can in itself eliminate much. Of course, it can do a lot of damage, but look, let's just think about how political function holders are obliged to report information about themselves. And I ask you whether these anti-corruption committees are always reported in such a way as to exclude all possible abuses or not – I mean ownership and co-ownership. However, I would point out two more purely minor things that I think are good in this law, and this is actually the one that protects the confidentiality of the source in Article 7. This, however, seems to me to be essential to this desire for disclosure, and to Article 9, which speaks of judicial exceptions. Because I don't have time to talk about where I see the data traps, but we're Slovenians. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Minister has yet to speak. Here you go, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you. A few interesting points were for comment by the proposer of this law. More than once, it has been stressed, mainly from liberal types, that it is the right solution to ensure the proper management of these companies, to withdraw and to leave them to those who really know this; the first, strategic owners who come with some positive development interest in these companies and ensure their development, ensure an increase in the number of jobs and do not deal with how they will spend as much money on certain circuits and circuits to various accounts of their friends in the Cayman Islands or anywhere. In fact, this would be the absolute best solution if the country had long ago, when it was time and when those companies had a high price on the market, if the country had decided then to sell them on transparent and open public tenders, to survive large purchases, at the time of the crisis, to have enough money to keep us out of debt, it would have been possible to cover all the social problems that occurred at that time, to invest in the infrastructure that remained in Slovenia, to get rid of all these disruptive and sometimes half-mafia businesses in state-owned enterprises and today would have been significantly different. But this train took off, and we missed it, and we're gonna have to do it, no doubt. There's no doubt about that. Even public opinion, if you've noticed, is about this. If, ten years ago, Slovenians asked if they were for the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, the vast majority were against it. Too bad, 'cause that was the time. Today, when these companies are at a very low price, the situation is quite reversed; most people are for the country to withdraw and privatise them. However, because we know that there is still a long way to go, that procedures will be difficult, that political coordination will be difficult, that procedures will be long, because they are difficult if we want them to be open and transparent, we will still have a large part of the state-owned economy for some time. Moreover, the extension of businesses will in a number of cases, when the creditors of a bank, a state-owned bank, actually lead to the transfer of bad loans to a bad bank, in fact, lead to the fact that the state will increase its ownership, to which Richard Branisel has given a good warning. That is why it is all the more important, even in the next period, to ensure good corporate governance. This will be a great opportunity for the Slovenian State Holding Act, and not so much the law itself, but will be a key test before politics when we appoint supervisors of the Slovenian State Holding. The law can be such or different and can be written in it, the key question is, whose five or seven people, or how many people there will be, will sit at the top of Slovenian state property. Whether this, as before, will be some party stand – which does not mean that they are often not good experts, but it has always been shared by some client quotas – whether they will be people with superior competences and complete integrity and independence, is to say, people who have nothing to lose except a good name. I am still an optimist, and I believe, I still believe that we will succeed in building such people and that together we will choose the best, not by client quotas, but by choosing the best that we can all trust to manage our assets well. If this is the case, then this positive shift will spread from above to the last company to which state ownership hunters reach, slowly and gradually. But it will never be optimal, so it is extremely important that citizens have media and all eyes on the operations of these companies. That's what this law brings. Marko Pavlišič said nicely, a broad contract that had been concluded so far, knowing that it would not have to be disclosed publicly, it would probably not have been concluded, since the director would have thought three times before concluding a contract for which he would have been ashamed if he had to show it to the public the next day. Sponsoring sports is a nice thing, but, of course, it can't take place arbitrarily, at the will of some director who will pay something to the club he likes, for which he cheers or where some of his relatives may be employed. Unlike those who see, say, in this sponsorship of the football club by Luke Koper something completely non-problem and clean – yes, but to me it is problematic. After this came to light, I got a call, say, from a mayor in northeastern Slovenia who said, "Yes, but Luka Koper won't give us anything for football? But it's a state-wide company, because it's not just a one-city company! He may be able to give a little more kopre sport, but after all, it's a state-owned company, all Slovenes." Banks were mentioned several times today. True, I think the mentality in banking management is strongly focused on concealment. The financiers think they never have to show them anything, just like bankers. This mentality will also slowly change. Look, I'm telling you from a very limited experience, investigators from the police, of course through the Director-General, have complained to me that there are no data available in the banks in the investigations. That, in particular, the middle management in state banks – be careful, in banks owned by the majority state – does not allow them access to certain documents. Not so long ago you have changed – I think that it has already entered into force of the Banking Act; in those days you should have entered into force, which opens a new leaf here and stipulates that banks will have to disclose documents for the purposes of the investigation, regardless of bank secrecy, that it will not be necessary for the police to go through every piece of paper under a court order to obtain documentation. Because, you know, investigating crimes in the banking system is a tough thing to do, and the police have taken it seriously, and we're looking at everything. It will not be possible to investigate, expose and write complaints overnight, to do so thoroughly and thoroughly, but in the end, I am confident that this will result in indictments, indictments and ultimately in convictions. Another question is often raised: "Is this law also applicable to those documents that were produced yesterday, before yesterday, before yesterday?" Very clear answer: "Yes!" And this is not a retroactive application of the law, the law will apply further, but it will apply to all the documentation that these companies have at their disposal. So it will also be necessary to disclose what was concluded yesterday, before yesterday or three years ago. It's all that documentation that companies have to keep in their possession by law, by accounting or whatever. This issue was already raised in the original law, and the ZDIJZ, when one of the debtors soon after the application of the law refused to give any documents, said that they had been created before the law was enacted, not that it was a law relating to all the documents with which you now have them, no matter when they were created. That's why I'm saying it's not just going to be a front-rower here, but there's going to be a lot of things coming back. And, you know, practice shows that a lot of what civil society organisations or the media discover is then the source of information for KPK, police, Dursa and others' investigations. I agree with Mrs Plevčakovo that the law is coming too late. Not only does this law, the awareness of how we treated ourselves or how we dealt with our common assets, come too late. As long as the crisis went well, we missed these things, now that we are no longer doing well, but we are facing all the distress that slowly floats to the surface. This is just one historic opportunity to face all the mistakes we or we have made as a society in all these years and not to repeat them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you, Minister Virant. It's Mrs Ramšak, then Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Say good-bye to everyone again! We have, of course, drawn attention to some of the grey foxes in this law, or in general, in accessing information of a public nature, which you have also discussed in this implementation, Mr Minister. However, I would point out some aspects that have not yet been presented here: we all know that some institutions or individuals with public authority do not have access to their data or data. In doing so, I am primarily referring to notaries and lawyers; lawyers in the part where they represent these entities, who are also subject to this law and are not able to access this data. It is true that those lawyers who engage in legal transactions with state-owned enterprises, with government authorities, local governments and so on are not even committed to publishing their business reports in IAPES, and here too I think that there is something that you have very much pointed out to colleagues and colleagues about the possibility of corrupt practices. And if taxpayers have access to other data, I don't know why they wouldn't even have in these cases when lawyers' houses, individuals represent all of these under this law before the authorities or their legal representatives. This is about spending public funds. In the case of banks, I would also point out that, in fact, at our largest bank, it is systemic, that is, with the New Ljubljana Bank, it comes to what you have warned, Minister, that it does not provide data. Well, not just the police. This system bank also persistently rejects the requirement of handing out credit maps and accompanying documentation not only to criminals, including prosecutors and the judiciary. If the State owns this bank, it should also ensure, in an appropriate manner, through the supervisory authorities, that such conduct of the responsible persons in the New Ljubljana Bank is inadmissible. That is why I also drew attention to this issue in the introduction. However, I have also seen this comparison in the material of how things are arranged in other countries, and I must say that the regulation of this issue in the Kingdom of Sweden has particularly fallen into my eyes. Indeed, they are also bound to the principle of free access to information of a public nature available to public authorities by the judicial and legislative branches of government. We have often faced problems in the National Assembly when not only Members and Members, but the general public, the general public – somehow the opinion is that we do not have the right to access data. However, I think that some of the data should also be made available in the judiciary and in the judiciary. So little to think about those who think that we want to intervene in some area just like that and that we want to know all the data. As far as banks are concerned, I would also point out that although some colleagues and colleagues wanted to, in this debate we would point out somehow, as if some wanted to get all the data and just like that – that is not true! Even when we are considering the guarantee at the Faktor Bank and Probank, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have pointed out that taxpayers have the right to know certain data, you are on the more liberal side, I will use the term minister, I will object to the disclosure of those data which are linked to these two banks, which are private banks, and we will save them with taxpayers' money. And it's more than 100,000 euros in deposits. I think that all citizens and citizens have the right to know where this money will go for the guarantees, who we are saving and in what way, and that this would also be the right approach. I further agree with all colleagues who have warned in your debates that corruption is very present in Slovenia and that, in particular, politicians and all those top officials and others who run this policy, economy and public administration must be committed to the highest standards and integrity. Of course, we fully agree with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, although you want to show otherwise. However, I would point out that it is also very important that those institutions which have the power to control the functioning of bodies, individuals, especially politicians, be committed to the highest principles of integrity and law or not to give opportunities for corruption. This is where I'm going to go with the information officer right now. I believe that all Members and Members know very well the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is bound, at the request of the constitutional authority, to assess the constitutionality of Article 29(2) and (3), paragraph 2, of the Law on the Prevention and Restriction of Competition, where the Constitutional Court has made clear to the information authorities that, in the exercise of its statutory powers, it must not interfere with the individual legal procedures conducted by the competent national authorities and verify that the protection of personal data is constitutionally consistent and legally respected in these proceedings. And it has certain powers of inspection as to how personal data are handled, how it is protected, how it is stored and processed, but it does not have this right in concrete proceedings and has actually intervened in the constitutionally guaranteed protection of rights. Why am I saying this? Because I am also subject to a similar procedure by the information officer himself, and I am confident that in this process too, she will eventually prove to be in excess of her powers. Therefore, we say that those who have the authority to detect the suspicions of corruption must also be outside of this and must work in accordance with the Constitution and legislation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have even proposed the discharge of the information officer, on the basis of this decision – that no one will think that, on the basis of this procedure led against me as former Presidents of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I also have a question about when you said, Mr Minister, that businesses and public institutions, as well as all those who are committed to the highest standards on individual functions, must actually be run by them, and that this must also apply in the case of the information officer, the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I wonder, given that, in the case of an information officer, when her husband is linked to certain practices that are not suitable for a person and that have also caused damage to state ownership, and, of course, travels me to see if his wife can enjoy the confidence of the wider Slovenian public. Finally, let me refer to Mr Kos's recent analysis. You referred to it in some of the previous debates in the National Assembly, when we discussed some other topics, you referred to GRECO, which provided an analysis of the Commission's assessment of the prevention of corruption in the event of the issue of its report on the supervision of the assets of the presidents of parliamentary parties. We are all very well acquainted with this report. Here I agree with those who say that the same vats must be used for all. Otherwise, as I have already said in the opinion of the parliamentary group itself, of course we support the expansion of the commitment circle. In establishing the register, however, I would also point out what we have repeatedly stressed that this register, all the data and commitments that are now committed to publishing or giving the opportunity to the public to access the data, that the highest standard will be reached when all the databases are connected and when it is also possible to monitor whether they have published the right information or are misleading the public or citizens and citizens and others. Above all, I agree with my predecessors, who travel to if a national authority, or a local community, or a public institution publishes a report, to draw up an analysis so that these data should then be made available, under certain conditions, for further consideration and submission in their work, to be used in their work, including all others, especially if such matters were financed by public funds. Here, again, let me conclude by supporting in the Slovenian Democratic Party the amendment and supplementation of this law, that there are still some open issues that I believe will be complemented by today's presentation or public presentation of opinions and all these debates and then by the procedure on the home labour body and that in the end, the law will actually come into this Chamber again, with which we will all be satisfied and will ensure that what the objectives of this law are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The Minister has spoken to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u68	He explained something. As far as lawyers are concerned, of course, all contracts concluded by lawyers with companies owned by a majority of the state or municipalities will become public through this law or the key parameters of these contracts will become public. Notaries are already committed to information of a public nature as entities with public powers. Also, I did not fully understand that part, and all state authorities and municipal authorities are committed to accessing information, if they do not provide data, they are always subject to the supervision of the information officer and then to the possibility of judicial protection. In the end, the court shall decide if the individual debtors do not wish to provide this information. Credit maps are something — especially those problematic, controversial, stinking of banking crime, where bad loans have been granted by associations and acquaintances and so on — that will make them public under this law. See, the first step taken by the adoption of the amendment to the Banking Act is very important. There is no doubt that no bank can refer to bank secrecy when it comes to the prosecution and the police. If the NPU investigators come to the bank, they have to give them – so, the management of this credit card must show up, disclose. As far as the public is concerned; if you ask the banks today whether they'll disclose these credit maps, they'll say it's bank secrecy. If you read this law, you will see that it also allows for the data, including those marked as business secrets, or banking documents, or whatever, to be disclosed if the public’s interest is stronger; and the public’s interest is stronger when it is suspected of some irregularities or criminal acts. Let us read all the law before the second reading, so that it will be true, in particular we will look at it, that it will be clearly and inconceivably written down so that these credit maps can also be made public. Once again, what I have said in the introduction, Slovenia is very high on the public sector's openness and transparency on comparative scales, and this is measured by very strict institutions, this Access Info, a non-governmental organisation based in Spain, then the Center for Law and Democracy from Canada, these are two institutions that measure the level of openness and transparency of countries. Here is Slovenia top 3, here we are already among the best under the current Law on Access to Public Information; not only by law. You know, we have a good implementation of this law, either or mainly because of an information officer, whom you read or sometimes attack. In fact, the Information Commissioner has done a great deal to ensure that the public sector operates in an open and transparent manner. It makes a very reasonable decision, so without overreacting in some way, so that it does not understand the importance of individual exceptions in specific cases. However, do not leave, do not allow anyone, any authority, any public sector entity, to hide information which must be disclosed by law. The role of the information officer is therefore extremely important. The law opened, opened this curtain in front of the public sector, but behind this law is always an information officer, who is a guarantee that individual debtors will not wave their left hand and say, "What do we care about the law, we will do it our way?" That is why I do not agree with these criticisms. Any state authority must be criticized and it is right to draw attention to mistakes, everyone is also responsible, the information officer specifically responsible to the President of the Republic, he who proposed her appointment, could also resolve her, it is obvious that Mr President has estimated that your reasons are not sufficient and that they are not convincing and that your proposal for a discharge has been rejected. But everyone answers for themselves. We can't expect anyone to be responsible for their relatives. If the information officer's husband has done something wrong, he will answer to the authorities, to the courts, etc., but he can't answer for him, I don't know, his children, or his wife, or parents, or anyone. We still have to separate these things. We often hear this criticism at the expense of the information officer, at the expense of the KPK. It is important that we have these supervisory authorities, we also have control over them, we have judicial control. In the case of an information officer, it is very nice and clean, in the case of the KPK it would have to be handled better, even more precisely, but there is already an administrative dispute today, then the way to the Supreme Court – all this is possible. These are important supervisory institutions that need to be inspected, and if they detect some irregularities, they need to be reconciled and appropriate consistency drawn, whether someone likes it or not. We know what that means. It is much better if, before the findings of an institution, an individual defends himself as a civilian, so to speak, not as a politician with a political position, but as an ordinary citizen, and after proving to the courts or anywhere that he is innocent, that he was right and not this supervisory institution, then he can return to the big door as a winner. However, if you are not only accused, but if there are concrete findings of irregularities by a particular institution, it is necessary to draw appropriate sequences. But maybe we've already sailed a little, and I'm gonna break up at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica has Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u70	Mr Minister, I understand very well what you have said in your response to some of my implementations, who are under the Public Information Access Act, what they reveal and who are those authorities that are involved in this, all the public authorities, the public administration that actually have to publish this data. I wouldn't just replicate you in that part, but complement you more when you said, "When it comes to banks..." That's why I warned myself. You warned me the police were having problems. The problems are also obvious – that is, it comes from one of the parliamentary questions that Minister Plicanic has discussed, and from which it is clear that not only do the police and the prosecution not get this information, nor do the courts, and also that you are the top, this is what the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank says, interprets the legislation quite differently. Even their legal services know that data or from these credit maps should not be all of them, but those that give rise to the suspicion that criminal acts should be made available to the court or to the prosecution or to the police. I think that Mr Vinko Gorenak has asked this question and that it is very sad if the management of the state-owned administration does not do so. That is why I said that you, as Minister, can also continue to warn, including the supervisory competent services, and I believe that someone will also hear from the Ljubljana Bank or one of the supervisors, that they will intervene in the administration itself. Because it's actually a cover-up. Of course, it has not yet been said that there has been any injury or crime, but if there is no possibility of the police or the prosecution or the judiciary looking into these maps, then the question is what is hiding in these maps. And it is unacceptable for public opinion to raise doubts about the correctness of business. Perhaps everything is right, but when you do not commit an act, even though it should be in accordance with the law, it goes to something else entirely. As far as your performance is concerned, I disagree with the Commissioner. I absolutely support it, as far as it is concerned to warn those who do not give access to data, but when I spoke about these two top institutions, I spoke mainly in that part that they must also be subject to the same rules in the integrity and elimination of corruption and not only to other politicians, officials and other citizens. We can all agree completely on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So that corruption in Slovenia is a serious and real problem, more or less we all know. Not only does the Commission point out this to prevent corruption, but we also received a report in Ernst&Young's survey this year that Slovenia is even first among countries at the level of economic corruption. We actually earned this infamous city, including because the authorities and the rest of the public so far did not have the tools to get some data. In the context of this, I am actually saddened when I came to Ljubljana this morning and I have heard that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia supports the idea, or only the building of the Slovenian State Holding, that it does not support the fact that subordinate holding companies, which are mainly state-owned, give this information that we are talking about today. In short, this means that there is actually one thing we are saying here, and many times we accuse each other of the things that others should be doing. I think we're gonna have to change this practice. We must be aware that, when it comes to state property, the majority of state property in these companies is that these companies are, in fact, only a derivative of our activities and our activities, and if you want, state ownership. They shall exercise state ownership at operational level and may not be able to question whether such data will be accessible or not. We are now also giving these formal tools, or we will give them when this law is passed. I believe that these things are large or very large in the congregations. I am aware of cases where, in the case of various executive companies, on the basis of concessions awarded or public undertakings, which are almost entirely owned by one or more municipalities, you know, by the structure of employees, which political party a particular company belongs to. You know exactly how you have to get together with a political party so that, say, your son or daughter gets a job if she's looking for a job. And here, I'd like to do a little bit of controversy with the minister. It's not an issue for me to own, even though we think we can solve it automatically. We will not solve automatically, but we will have private or state ownership, because it is a more important system, whether we will have professional management or non-professional management of both companies and some other companies. And here's the main problem I see. Look, you've done a little bit of promoting your clientele agenda when you said it was necessary to sell off, but also your MPs – it's understandable, because that's what we are for. Well, some of us are more distracted, some of us wouldn't sell anything. Personally, I am not one of the proponents of either extreme sex – but I am not misinterpreting the "extreme" – but, above all, I stress the need for transparent action and professional action. Not this practice that was so intertwined in these companies: the management was from one company, political to understand each other, but then the supervisory councils had to be from other, preferably coalition partners, so that somehow we were satisfied with all the appetites. In this context, I also understand some objections to the design of holding company, because this inefficient management system is also conditioned by organisation. We now have five institutions dealing with the management of state property. Five! As a result, five or more, sadly, political oversight councils. But behind these supervisory councils not only political parties, but kind, not five, but a whole bunch of different lobbyists and lobbyists and so on, trying to get some benefits. But for us to establish such a system, we are to blame in this country ourselves. Nobody told us to do that or bring it from somewhere else! I don't think so now, we used to say we had a game and we were scared of SDK. So we have somehow established this system and over the years it has become the dominant model of corporate governance and also the operation of purely private enterprises with the public sector or with public companies or with enterprises in dominant state ownership. It's kind of self-evident, and we even said, because this one is good, this one knows well, this one has good information, this one knows who to give. In this context, we have also understood or supported the amendment of the Political Parties Act, because it is through this that we have prevented those who wanted to be polyvalent from giving to all the parties something small, just in case. Or maybe one family split up and said that you're France, which is my brother, but you wouldn't go, like to SDS, sister Mick, and you go to SD, and then the third one goes to SLS, and so on. In short, if we had a large family, we had a virtually political spectrum covered. Unfortunately, this thinking is still present in Slovenia today. Therefore, even when we have such documents on the table, I am happy to support them. Last but not least, if we remember some events that we may have different opinions about, but also this organisation of civil associations, societies or rebel groups or whatever you want, it also actually requires that this practice be discontinued. I do not make the illusions that we will stop this overnight, and I also know and support all those thoughts when some here said that the biggest problem is that each individual, in particular those who go into politics, has to clear up their own lives. If you have self - respect, you also have personal integrity, moral integrity, and you can talk about it, or you can tell someone else. As I say, I think, and again, in this House, we have too many misdemeanours in each other, one or the other, but if we are honest, more or less all of the listed parties have been in one way or another in some of these connections. I don't want to name anyone, because I don't have and I don't want to expose anyone, but I support the change in getting that information. In doing so, I would also point out that it is very important that we also somehow get the necessary information for those sectors, the so-called monopoly goods or services. Because also important concession contracts given to state monuments, natural or cultural, must also be subject to in fact at any time of any review, some available information, because it is also a potential source of corruption. That's one thing. And the other is services. We also have certain service concessions, and I also agree with those who have thought about where it is really necessary for some of the tasks that are needed for a person every day — for example, a garbage concessionaire or a concessionaire who cleans streets and so on — sometimes it is important, even if it is a purely private matter, to get some necessary information, especially with whom he deals. I have to say, this is a trick. Once again, these things are not only happening at the state level, but also happening to a large extent at the level of the municipalities. This interconnection of some structures or the closure of some structures, when virtually no one can come along if it is not from this consecrated circle, is often due to the fact that the information is closed. In short, we have already said in the position of the Group of Members that we support the law at this stage, that we want to complement it in the directions that have been discussed today, and I must say that I personally believe that this will be the law if no one holds a fig tree in the pocket that will be supported by all the parties in this High Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like another closing word? Not really. I'm still asking because we still have time to discuss it if anyone else would like to discuss it? If not, I am closing the debate on this point. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 11. 2013 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on the protection of the elderly and of the family. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. On this proposal, a group of twenty-six Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, dear Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have yet another important system law, which is not of a saving nature, but actually continues the family policy where we have completed it, and family policy is certainly our example within the European Union. So you're facing a change in the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act, which changes after 2002. It's not the first change, it's the first new law in this area. The changes since 2002 took place in 2003 and 2006. The law is an integral article of individual parts of family policy and is based on the idea of the social role of the State and the fact that the state cannot overlook the fundamental social cell, that is, the family. Solutions in the proposed new law constitute an upgrade to existing rights. The new law is without prejudice to the system, the structure of the law remains the same, and seven chapters remain in the proposal for the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts. The rights governed by the law are part of the Single Family Policy measures implemented in our country through a number of policy measures in other areas as well. The adoption of the new law is mainly due to the requirement to implement the European acquis into Slovenian law, namely Directive 2010–2018. The Republic of Slovenia is already in the pre-trial procedure due to the non-notification of national rules for the transposition of the parental leave directive. At the end of May this year, we received an official reminder from the European Commission. The deadline for implementing this Directive was March 2013. However, it may be necessary to say that in the past period before the adoption of this Directive, Slovenia negotiated very intensively, together with Sweden, within the European Union, so that such a directive would not be adopted because we advocated that the directive should not interfere with national legislation, where regulation is such that it is among the better in Europe, but we have actually been voted on. That is how we now have this need to comply with the European Union Directive. At the same time, this bill also aligns terminology with international documents, which we also wanted to bring users closer to the law itself and make it more understandable. For example, we now have a name, we are talking about maternity leave, paternity leave and leave for the care and protection of the child. Now in this bill, maternity leave is called maternity leave because it is intended for mothers, paternity leave remains a paternity leave, and leave for care and child protection is renamed parental leave because it is actually a right for parents to share it with each other. In addition, this amendment to the law is before you because it is necessary to regulate the rights of social parents. This directive, as I mentioned earlier, also requires national countries to regulate adoption leave in the way that is applicable to parental leave for biological parents. The adopters should also be granted equal rights, i.e. rights up to 260 days, in case of adoption of a child up to the age of 8. The law basically regulates better rights for social parents, i.e. parents who actually nurture and protect the child. For example, the right to a shorter working time and partial payment for lost income can also be justified by this proposal for foster parents and caregivers. A father's leave under the law will also benefit the person who actually cares for the child if, of course, this right to paternity leave is waived by the biological father. The same applies to the right of a gift at the birth of a newborn, which will also apply to adoptive parents and guardians. This seems to me to be a really important novelty and the acquisition of this law. Then there are also changes in the field of harmonisation of legislation with the European Social Charter and the adopted Labour Relations Act. You probably remember that in the Labour Relations Act you wrote that the right to compensation should be given in case of breast-feeding, and that is what we have done. In short, we are also reducing the administrative burden on employers, simplifying the work of social work centres. If I finish. The law has brought a lot of news, and it's also important to have a new father's leave, which we're going to extend from 15 days paid when the country goes better, to 30 days. This will actually increase these 365 for an additional 15 days. More in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President, Minister with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! Changes in parental protection and family benefits are necessary for the transposition of the European acquis into Slovenian legislation and in accordance with the European Directive on the reduction of inequalities between women and men in the field of the coordination of professional and family life. The need for changes has also been demonstrated through the implementation of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in practice. So, what's going on now. To list just some of the new or important improvements brought by the law. It is proposed to extend the right to work with reduced working hours for one of the parents who nurtures and protects at least two children to the finished first grade of the youngest child, thus changing by one year up. The news about the right to a shorter working time and the payment of a contribution to social security due to parenthood is also that a range of beneficiaries of such rights is extended to other persons who care and protect the child on the basis of a valid enforcement address in accordance with the rules governing family relations, i.e. to a guardian or guardian who also actually cares for and protects his or her guardian. This will also increase the benefits of those children who are not cared for by their parents. For children living in single-parent families, the amount of the child supplement is increased by 30 per cent instead of a 10% increase as is the case so far; this is therefore very important for single-parent families. The right of the adoptive parent is also being amended and regulated. The bill also reduces the administrative burden on employers as they will be exempt from the requirements for the fulfilment of the grounds for the benefit of leave and the notification of the transfer of leave. The work of social work centres is also being simplified. We always welcome the simplification and elimination of administrative barriers in the Civil Gazette. In other words, in public relation to this proposal, the most important parental leave, or the proposal of parental leave, for 30 days for fathers, was definitely the most significant, which would be difficult to agree to in the National Gazette. The government listened to the public and deleted this provision from the original text of the law, so that now maternity leave remains 105 days before maternity leave. Each parent has the right to parental leave for 130 days, with the mother able to pass 100 days on to the father, 30 days untransferable, and the father can pass all 130 days of parental leave on to the mother. The amended law provides for 15 days of parental leave as before, and a further 15 days of paid paternity leave are added. The law foresees a time-lapse in the implementation of this novelty by reducing the unpaid leave by 25 days each year after the year following the year in which the economic growth exceeds 2.5 per cent of GDP and adding 5 days of paid leave each year. And since in fact 75 days of unpaid paternity leave is abolished in some way and adds 15 days of paid leave, we consider that this should not have a major negative impact on employers. In the Civil Gazette, we advocate a free and open society by ensuring equal conditions for all. The existing policy of parental protection still creates considerable inequalities between women and men in the field of reconciliation of professional and family life. We therefore support the amendment of the law in order to help eliminate inequalities. At the same time, we are pleased, as I have already said, that the proposal before us also removes a number of administrative obstacles. We will support the proposal to conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Kurnjek. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the consideration of the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, which we Members of the SLS are pleased to discuss and also support its adoption. We would be even more pleased if such laws were sometimes dealt with by emergency procedures, not just those who take something from people; they are usually treated by emergency procedures. Of course, we also welcome such treatment by normal procedure of a law as important as this. Family is the base cell of our society. They grow up and raise new citizens in the family. Family is the first and most important environment in which every human is formed, family means trust and security. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore want to maintain the family as a value in adopting legislation that ensures the existence of the Slovenian people. It is therefore very important that a country with various measures, as well as tax policy, show and clearly map support for the family. We agree with the starting point that the law preserves and does not interfere with the fundamentals of family policy, but brings only some changes. At present, it is even more important to enable parents to harmonise their professional and family life and to ensure the greatest possible economic stability of families. The law provides for a new system of leave arrangements at the birth of a child, i.e. maternity, paternity and parental leave, not to mention or repeat the solutions that are good in this law. It is also important that the Ministry has listened to comments and proposals from the public debate in this law. Two provisions are certainly considered to be among these positive changes. The first is that up to 20 percent of the child’s higher allowance due to non-involvement of the child in kindergarten will also be justified by children after the third year of age, and the right of parents to agree in writing on their own way of using parental leave. It is very important for children and fathers that the father also has an equal right to care for his children and that he is therefore left to parents so that they can agree on the way in which they exercise their rights. A positive change is certainly also an extension of the right to a shorter working time in the case of two children up to the age of the child at the end of the first class and an increase in parental leave by 30, 60 and 90 days, if they are already protecting two, three or four or more children, or if they are caring for a child with special needs. In view of demographic trends and the problem of high unemployment, it is also very encouraging that the state pays contributions to one of the parents who, due to the protection of four or more children, leaves the labour market until the end of the first grade of the youngest child. Of course, further incentives would be needed to make decisions for the first child, which is also a critical point many times in our country, and not only to help employers make contributions. Just a simple calculation, for example, for a health contribution, would show that, for example, a one-year contribution would be paid back to the country in the form of new citizens, workers who will work and pay contributions to social treasury during their lifetime and therefore multiply this contribution, equally, of course, for pension and other cash. There is also a positive legislative reduction in the administrative burden for employers, who will be released after a new one, for example, to meet the basis for the benefit of leave and leave reporting, and, of course, some solutions that will affect the fact that work at social work centres will be easier and cheaper. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. DeSUS Group, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good-bye to all of you again! Precisely on yesterday's date 12 years ago, a law was passed, which had already been amended five times, including the ZUJF. Nevertheless, this matrimony requires a thorough renovation primarily in order to keep pace with time. Thus, changes in this area are due to the adaptation of the European legal order, which seeks to reduce inequalities between women and men in the field of job and family coordination. In this regard, it is of course a change in parental leave, which in its original form caused massive and severe opposition, since 30 days of untransferable paternal leave meant that the reduction of maternity leave meant so long. Not only in the public and large part of the profession, but also in our party or in the parliamentary group we have opposed this idea. This, of course, does not contradict the Minister in the idea that fathers should be more encouraged to participate in the earliest care, protection and upbringing of the child. On the contrary, we strongly agree that fathers need to be more involved in this child's earliest life, as this has a very positive impact on him. But we were disturbed by the way it was done. It was a solution that would not entail financial consequences. At this expense of paternity leave, their leave would be easy for mothers to reduce for these 30 days. We are pleased that the applicant has listened to the comments. The solution now proposed is satisfactory because it preserves a total parental leave of 260 days, which is divided by half for the mother and half for the father, which can be carried between them, with the exception of 30 mother days being non-transferable. The second part of the European directive on non-transferable leave is the so-called father leave, which will also last 30 days and will be paid in full. For 15 days, the father has used as before, i.e. after the birth of the child, for up to six months of the age of the child, and for the remaining fifteen days, he can take advantage of the rest of the parental leave, in a folded series of full or partial absences from the work no later than the end of the 1st grade of the primary school of the child. Thus, in the DeSUS Group, we are confident that we will meet the requirement of the directive for at least one month's leave of absence. It is true, however, that this arrangement will be fully implemented later, given the financial capacity of the State, that the implementation of this solution is delayed to the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2.5 per cent of gross domestic product by changing from the present 50 days 75 days unpaid every year 25 days into 5 days paid leave. This is acceptable for our Group of Members. The bill also better regulates rights for parents who actually protect and care for their children. Adoption leave is substantially changing as this leave must be regulated on the basis of the requirements of the Directive in the same way as that of biological parents. Therefore, parental leave for adoptive parents shall be set at the same length as biological parents and shall be used until the end of the 1st grade of primary school of the child. As so far as work on shorter working hours will still be possible and in the case of two or more children, this right shall be extended to the completed 1st grade of the primary school of the child. So the different rights that are now linked to the different ages of children, the proposed amendment of the law is uniform to the end of the 1st class. This is important not only for users but also for social work centres with regard to the rationalisation of work. With this law, the right to breast-feeding governed by the Labour Relations Act is of greater importance. Reimbursement for the period of lactation shall be introduced one hour a day until the age of the child is one and a half years. In addition to all rights given on a larger scale under the current law, the proposal also reduces the administrative burden on employers and simplification and the appreciation of work for social work centres. The country protects motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this. This constitutional provision, as well as the other with similar content, shall be implemented by means of the proposed new arrangement, as assessed by the DeSUS Group. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Janko. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we are not entirely convinced that the Government's proposal aims to improve family policy, and this concerns us. We want the family policy in Slovenia to improve to support the family and not to upset people. During the public debate, we, together with a number of civil society organisations and experts, have repeatedly highlighted the questionable solutions proposed by the original text of the novel in particular with regard to the imposition of maternity and paternity leave. We are pleased that the Minister has also listened to the public, to the public and to take these views into account in part. The emphasis is on "partial", as the novel in the opinion of Nova Slovenije proposes quite a few problematic changes that we introduced in 2006 when Nova Slovenije ran the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs at the time. Article 29 reduces the age of the youngest child for the right to extend parental leave from 8 years to the end of the 1st grade of primary school. And even more alarmingly, in Article 52, the right to pay social security contributions to one of the parents for leaving the labour market for the sake of care and protection of four or more children from the current age of 10 of the youngest child at the moment of entering the youngest child's primary school is reduced, i.e. on average for up to 4 years. A good thousand 500 beneficiaries of this measure is the minimum cost for the country and you want to save on them! Article 94 provides that the right to a child’s allowance shall no longer belong to the child’s birth but only with the first month following the submission of the application. How much will you save for this measure? Ladies and gentlemen, the level of social rights is particularly low for large families with each of the following laws of this coalition. Finally, on behalf of New Slovenia, I would say that the family is certainly an important community, and family policy is extremely important in this area. Slovenia has the seventh oldest population in the world, so we must worry about it and therefore we must do everything possible to increase the birth rate in Slovenia, so that there will be incentives for families to have more children. In Novi Slovenija we see that we still have a lot of work to do in this area, and here the opposition and the coalition certainly do not differ, because family policy is extremely important for all citizens after all. Members of New Slovenia will not oppose the amendment of the law in the first reading, but we will continue to make amendments to individual articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! A completely new proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits will, we hope in the Positive Slovenia Group, replace more than a decade old law that currently governs this area. As stated in the explanation of the bill, the decision for the family is conditional on both objective and subjective conditions. Today, it is extremely important to talk precisely about objective conditions, since they include economic conditions that depend on the employment of the younger generation, which provides them with financial security, thus the basic conditions for living, protecting children and others. We are aware that the coordination of a career is also important with the decision to create a family, so the rights we regulate under this law are important because they are part of the family policy measures that are also implemented in Slovenia in the field of other resources. In this context, we can talk about the integration content of individual parts of the family policy based on the social role of the country and the fact that it must not overlook the fundamental social cell, that is, the family. The drafting of the law took months, coordinated with a number of social partners and other interested public. However, this is primarily due to the implementation of several directives of the European Union. Remember, during the public debate, the most raised was the question of paternity leave, which, with its non-transferable 30 days, would affect the mother's right to care for her child for one year at a time. We are pleased that with the competent ministry and other interested public, we have managed to find a solution that removes all doubts about the appropriateness of involving the father in the upbringing and care of the child. And what is the solution? The draft law fully provides for a new system of leave arrangements at the birth of a child. Maternal leave, before maternity leave, remains 105 days, of which 15 days are compulsory. And parental leave, formerly leave for care and protection, which is an individual and, in principle, non-transferable right of parents. Each parent has the right to parental leave for 130 days and can pass 100 days of parental leave on to his mother, and 30 days is intolerable. Dad can take 130 days of parental leave to his mother. With this solution, we have been satisfied with the non-transferable 30 days following the European Directive for Mother, and this is provided in the form of a father's leave. The draft law provides for 15 days of paternity leave, as regulated at this time, at the birth of the baby together with the mother, and an additional 15 days of paid paternity leave after the parental leave has expired after one year. This means that the total duration of leave at birth is extended from 12 to 12.5 months. For the purpose of paternity leave is the presence of a father associated with the child in the care and protection of the child. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we stress the importance of provisions that better regulate rights for social parents as they follow social development and various forms of family. These provisions are also followed by a directive of the European Union requiring from national countries a uniform regulation of parental rights for adoptive parents or persons who actually care for a child to be cared for, cared for and protected. The provisions of the law therefore regulate the following rights: parental leave for adopters, which is determined in the same way as parental leave for biological parents. This compares the rights at the time of the birth and adoption of the child in a way that empowers the adoptors or persons entrusted with the child to the care and education of the child for the purpose of adoption to have the right to parental leave. A paternity leave may also benefit another person who actually nurtures and protects a child on the basis of a valid enforcement address in accordance with the rules governing family relations. These are foster parents, foster parents, caregivers, mothers’ spouse, mothers’ extramarital partner, and others who actually spend their time caring for the child. All these persons can use paternity leave only if the biological father of the child does not use it. The bill also extends the range of beneficiaries to shorter working hours and payments of contributions in the case of four or more children. The proposed provisions therefore increase the benefits of those children who are not cared for by parents. Persons who actually care for a child may be granted the right to a shorter working time and the payment of contributions in the case of four or more children. The proposal also extends the range of beneficiaries to support the birth of a child. This right may also be exercised by another person and the adoptive parent, unless this right has already been exercised by one of the parents of the child. Another person may also have the right to a large family allowance in cases where three or more children from the same family live without parents. In view of social development and different family situations, the legal provisions also extend the range of beneficiaries of the partial loss of income payment. This right shall also be extended to another person if he is actually taking care of the child. The purpose of this right is to enable parents or other persons who wish to take care of a child at home with a severe mental disability or a severely displaced child to leave the labour market and therefore receive a partial payment for lost income and appropriate inclusion in social security. Since the primary purpose of child care is to protect the child, it is only right that other persons are entitled to this right. In general, I can agree that the basic objective of the proposal is to maximize the prosecution of children's benefits, to promote a more equitable burden-sharing between parents in child and home care, to facilitate reconciliation between professional and family life, to ensure the universality of family benefits, to ensure freedom of choice in the way in which parental protection rights are exercised, to maximize justice and social equality, or to ensure the most stable environment for families, to establish a system of evaluation of the situation in the field of family policy, and to provide further information. In this presentation of my position, I mentioned only something, for the Group of Ambassadors Positive Slovenia, positive effects of the proposed legislation. More appropriate and effective solutions are likely to be able to be highlighted in the debate itself. Let me conclude by saying that in Positive Slovenia we will support the conclusion that the proposal for the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, he shall have the word mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u86	All welcome, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers, Members and Members! The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits was adopted in 2001 and was then updated and amended in 2003 and 2006. Changes in social as well as demographic matters have undoubtedly led to the need for a reformed law, as well as the requirements of the European directives. The justification for changes and innovations will be shown or will show further consideration of the law in the legislative process, with every comment and controversy that will come from the professional public and civil society in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The maternity leave will replace maternity leave and there remain 105 days, as today, of which 15 days are mandatory. Parental leave had previously been a leave for the care and protection of the child, each of the parents would have the right to parental leave for 130 days, with the mother being able to pass 100 days of parental leave on to the father, and 30 days is intolerable. The father can pass on 130 days of parental leave to the mother, in this way we can satisfy the conditions required by the European Directive for the mother and, for the father, we can satisfy the conditions of the father's 30-day leave, which is also non-transferable. At the time of the birth of the new law, there were aspirations for the father to make compulsory use of his part of parental leave for at least 30 days, as was the proposal of the ministry or government. It makes more sense for us to propose that parents can communicate their part of parental leave to their partners. This is a specific advantage in professions or in jobs, when a mother or father has, to say, domestically, better work and thus better pay, builds a career, provides a smooth work process and could then also affect family and family budget relations. At times, though, a father is a more capable caregiver or a more loving parent and has the opportunity to spend parental leave on him. The bill foresees 15 days of paternity leave as before — at the birth of a child, together with a mother — and an additional 15 days of paid paternity leave after the parental leave after one year. As we have heard in the future, the total holiday at birth will extend from one year to 12 months and a half. In addition, the bill seeks to reduce the administrative burden on employers by exempting employers from certain requirements, such as the fulfilment of the basis for the benefit of allowances and the notification of the transfer of such leave. The work of social work centres should also be simplified, as the law provides for solutions in some places that are simpler and cheaper, such as the harmonisation of deadlines and the ordinary postal delivery, and we must note that this can reduce the legal security of the exercise of the rights of persons in the process. We also find it questionable to delete the possibility of applying the child supplement back. The law provides for the right to family benefits for children under the age of 18, except for the right to an allowance for the care of the child and an allowance for a large family. Rights linked to the age of 8 years, however, the proposal for a law should be uniform until the first grade of primary school is completed. Although the solution is practical at first sight, the oldest child in a multi-child family is already attending primary school, but the proposal of the law ignores that certain children still need an escort to school and home. For 8 years, after an old elementary school system in an eight-year-old age, it was the final first grade, and now it's the sixth year. We do not agree with the proposaler's statement that it is at all important, in certain circumstances, that the law already in force regulated the rights to parental protection and family benefits at an enviable level, in comparison with other countries of the European Union, and that the solutions in the proposed new law constitute an upgrade of existing rights. This is true, but it must be borne in mind that the long-term trends in Slovenia's nativity are negative and that special attention should be paid to rights in the area of parental protection and family benefits, not so much in terms of increasing financial resources as in terms of the effectiveness of family benefits, in order to enable the family to decide on family policy as independently as possible of the social or economic situation, although this will never be possible altogether. Again, we need to mention jobs; it is said, due to the lack of jobs and the problem of youth unemployment. The unemployed do not hope to create a family or have children. Thus, the mother’s first birth takes place only at the age of thirty, or after thirty, or later. It is also a very important programme of housing policy for young people, which is currently insufficiently addressing the housing problem of young families or couples wishing to have children. The range of insured persons shall be extended in accordance with the applicable arrangements due to amendments to other regulations such as the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Wages Regulation and other remuneration of public servants for work abroad. Parental protection insurers are all persons who are necessarily involved in pension and disability insurance. The right to compensation at the time of maternity leave and the right to payment of social security contributions at the time of maternity leave is a novelty, the provision of the Labour Relations Act stipulating the right to a maternity leave. The right to compensation at the time of maternity leave was proposed and adopted already during the previous government. The law no longer regulates adoption leave because adopters have the right to parental leave, which we think is a suitable solution. The mother has the right to maternity leave for a period of 105 days, which does not change with the proposal of the law. The duration is also consistent with the 1992 Council Directive in force on the introduction of measures to promote improvements in the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or breast-feeding, which provides for a minimum period of maternity leave at least 14 weeks prior to and after childbirth. Father’s leave is the right of the father to be present during the earliest period of the child’s care and protection. However, use is possible for 15 days at the beginning and, as already mentioned, even after one year, the remainder, which will also be paid gradually. After the current law, the parents were jointly entitled to 260 days of parental leave, and all of them will now be able to agree on the method of use for these 260 days. This means that the entire leave for care and protection has so far been transferable, which I think will be almost entirely from now on. With the bill, the right to parental leave has become the individual right of each parent of the 130 days, the mother must keep 30 days in order to be sufficient for the directive, while the father, as we said, can pass all 130 days on to the mother, and he is satisfied with the directive with this compulsory paternity leave. Parental leave should be used immediately after the end of maternity leave. This ensures continuous care and protection of the child, as there is no interruption between the use of maternity leave and parental leave. There are reasons why one parent or both parents are not entitled to parental leave. In view of the arrangements so far, there are several reasons. Both apply when a child is entrusted with the care and training of another person, or is placed in a foster family, or the institution and parents are not entitled to parental leave because they do not actually care and protect the child. In such cases, the other person entrusted with the child’s upbringing and care, or the foster child’s placement, will use parental leave to care for and protect the child. One parent does not have the right to parental leave in cases where the child is entrusted with the care and training of the other parent or lives with only the other parent who protects and cares for the child. In the event that he has left the child, in the event that he is deprived of his parental right, in the event that his/her contact with the child is prohibited in accordance with the rules governing family relations and in the event that he/she has been given a measure prohibiting the approximation in accordance with the rules governing the duties and powers of the police and the prevention of domestic violence. It is a new way of exploiting a transferred parental leave. It is no longer possible to make use of this leave after days, but only in a narrow sequence, and it is not necessary to make full use of the leave at the same time. From the point of view of simplifying the procedures on the Centre’s part in excluding compensation from the point of view of the organisation of the work process on the part of employers, the proposed solution is more appropriate than it has been so far. Parents must inform the Centre of their unused leave no later than 15 days after the performance so that the beneficiary can pay the compensation in due time. This is a novelty, since it was previously an obligation of the employer. On the basis of the newly established basis for calculating the remuneration at the time of the transfer of leave, the employer of the centre is no longer obliged to report the days of the use of the leave and the data for the calculation of the basis, which is one of the removals of administrative barriers on the part of employers. The record of the use of the holiday is maintained by the centre. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that certain solutions are appropriate and at the same time sufficient for European directives, so we will not object to the fact that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. However, in further consideration of the law, we will closely monitor the purpose and objectives of the proposed solutions and in cases where it will prove that the legislative provisions do not follow the very purpose and objectives of the Government, including their solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to the Minister with co-workers and, of course, to all of you, colleagues and colleagues! After 12 years of implementing the existing Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, we are considering a new law today. The bill before us does not bring about substantial, radical changes. However, it brings important news, which is mainly related to the implementation of EU directives. For us Social Democrats, it would be worth mentioning that there are particularly important innovations related to the regulation of rights for social parents. The law thus introduces parental leave for adoptive parents to the same extent as for parental leave for biological parents. If the biological father of the child does not use the paternal leave, this leave will be given to the person who actually takes care of the child. It is either a foster, foster, caregiver, caregiver, mother’s spouse or extramarital partner and partner or partner of a registered same-sex partner. A range of beneficiaries shall be extended to shorter working hours and contributions in the case of four or more children and to a large family allowance. In the future, social parents may also be entitled to help with the birth of the child, except for the foster parents who already have the child, i.e. those who actually care for the child. The highest amount of powder in the public sector, however, raised a proposal on the non-transferable 30 days of paternity leave. Unfortunately, we have only supported this proposal, because we believe that the involvement of a child's father in the earliest years is essential for children's development. At the same time, this involvement of the father also means greater division of household work and greater competitiveness of women in the labour market. Surveys have shown that as many as 70 percent of fathers would choose to take such paternity leave if they were paid in full. This was also demonstrated by the use of 15-day paternity leave, which applies to as many as 95 percent of fathers in Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, a large part of the coalition has been intimidated by pressure from the public by such regulation, so in the draft law before us, we find a much nicer version of the non-transferable leave for fathers, which is sufficient to require the implementation of the European Union Regulation. The entire duration of leave at birth is thus extended for a further 15 days, and implementation of this is linked to economic opportunities in the country and is, of course, linked to the father. Nevertheless, we feel that we have missed another opportunity to move forward with regard to greater participation and a more even distribution of burdens between partners. After all, it would also be an important incentive for women to be more present in decision-making positions. History and Scandinavian countries are proof that we will not come too far simply through an agreement between the partners and without appropriate incentives from the country. The bill or the opinion that the law is suitable for further consideration will be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one is a reported mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! I can't imagine that today we would be considering such a change, which concerns, in particular, paternity leave if it wasn't related to the directive. We have also been very skilled at transposing the directive into our own legislation to avoid reprimanding, so to speak, from the European Union. Speaking of equality between women and men, in this case equality must be ensured for the male side, meaning that maternity leave must be as long as the father's leave within the 30-day period which is non-transferable, which is fully paid. I myself advocate the inclusion of my father's leave in the current scope of what we have called maternity and parental leave, including paternity leave. If we did, then I could honestly count everything I heard about the meaning of the father and the mother for the child's development, which could be heard in the referendum performances, as well as in the family code. I have one more thought to make. If it's paid in full, it's good. But if this were to depend on the agreement between the partners, it wouldn't be good. In fact, we have extended the right to care for the child. So much for saying that this family policy is not acceptable to the family. I am looking at it from this salary, so that the possibility of parental leave being extended for another 15 days of paternity leave is allowed, but this right is linked to the benefit of a father's leave in one piece, so I will say, because the first 15 days can take advantage of each day, but here it has to take advantage in one piece, but this is also linked to the older child's age. So it's not about that first-time care of the baby. If we were to think from this point of view, as I have now said, that it has actually been forced by Europe, not by some political option, but by the directive which provides for us, we should keep this in mind whenever concerns about the appropriateness or inadequacy of the family policy that is ahead of us are raised. One more time. It would seem to me that we have taken a step forward if the original idea were to be realized, because this would mean that we have understood the spirit of this directive: that it is a matter of sharing more equally the obligations of both parents with the child. However, when I say both parents, of course, I have to correct myself immediately because the benefit of a father's leave is possible when transferring to the one who actually cares for the child. I see this as a kind of duality; that we are now satisfied, but we were not before. And I'm not going to repeat my arguments. I regret that between those countries that we do not know in time with changed family conditions, we have changed relations between the sexes, which are increasingly partnering towards happiness. So it's another one of the missed opportunities. Well, that we will have to make a difference in family policy will soon catch up with us; if not later, send us. I am so waiting for things to happen to us that the European Commission will not find out that it will not send us a reproof, because the situation in this country is what they are. In this case, however, there is no talk about the financial situation, because the fact that this piece is taking care of a child supported by the State is prolonging and means a greater financial burden for the country. I don't want anyone to tell me I'm against it. No, I just said there's a kind of duality here. Even when it was said that the family policy represented by the Social Democrats is not favoured by large families, it would be good if we went to the ZUJF to take a look and examine carefully what the ZUJF meant for certain rights. Then we'll calm down, I hope we can talk about the future. However, as a priority of this law, I must stress greater concern for the rights of social parents, because better regulation of the rights of social parents also means better regulation of children's rights. As has been said in the position of the Group of Members, in the first reading I will support this law with a bitter taste that, due to public opinion, we had to give up what would be an approximation of the understanding of modern family policy to European trends. It's just a disappointment to me that we couldn't do it, but because there are so many other positive things in this marriage, I will support it. However, it seems to me that at least in some minor circumstances he is filling those gaps that he left unaccepted or rejected in the referendum, and this is my second pain with regard to family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Since I was running out of time, I would still say a few more words about the law itself. I think it really brings positive things. I will also comment on what the NSI-Christian Democrats Group has said. First, let me say that the law governs two sets of rights. We are talking about parental protection rights arising from the payment of contributions. These are basically rights relating to employees, i.e. those who pay very low contributions. The parental protection contribution is 0.1% for both employees and employers. In fact, this right, as well as most of these rights, is paid by the State from the budget, i.e. from other sources, and does not constitute paid contributions. More than 99 per cent of the funding is provided by the budget. That is why, in the past, there has been a lot of pressure on this contribution rate to be lifted, but we have always, at least when I am at the Ministry of Labour, tried to prevent it. Why? Since the link between the payment of contributions and then the payment of benefits is primarily that the link is to the amount of the payment. So if you have a higher salary, you pay higher contributions, and then you get a higher income. That is also our logic in the parental compensation system. Countries that do not have such logic come to an equal level for all, so it does not matter whether it is the principle of social insurance or not. Here is one of the basic issues of family policy and I am pleased that we are still talking about the contributions paid by employers and employees in this proposal. But then we should also keep in mind when we talk about rights, because the rights that are involved are four: the right to parental leave or leave and then the payment where we have maternity leave in the current regime, then we have parental leave, paternity leave and two more rights: the right to a shorter working time is from contributions, should be, and also to pay contributions to those parents who have more than 4 children and withdraw from the labour market. These are the rights relating to the contribution. And of course, the question in four and more children is how much was paid into the system. This is a question and we can agree on the importance of parents having certain rights because they have more children, and it is right to have certain rights more, but the question is whether they are stuck on the right system, because in most cases they are not employed or are not employed for a longer period of time and are not paying contributions. This is, for example, a systemic question about rights themselves. Others are family benefits that are usually linked to families, and the basic allowance is a child’s allowance like that key family income in our system. So this is the logic of this law that has been established since 2002 and has not changed in this system. This logic continues, but, as I mentioned earlier, many of the changes that are both related to international legal acts are, since we are members of the European Union, bound by the Member States and must be transposed into their national legal order by their national legislation. We don't have a big "would or wouldn't" here and here, that's our duty. This directive, which is mostly referred to as the parental leave directive, has in fact come from this logic of increasing equality in the care of the child between men and women. To your foundation. And the European Union, if we look at the directives as an assessment, if I give a bit of professional advice, certainly has done the most in its directives in the area of gender equality, which is being extended mainly from the field of work – equal pay for the same work that has already been done in the founding contract, in the beginning – until the transition to a sphere of privacy. And this part is very important because the sphere of privacy starts mainly with the care of the child and then has meaning for all other family or household tasks. Here the directive made it very clear that parental leave must last for at least 4 months, of which at least 1 month must be a non-transferable right of the father or mother. It was also clear in the negotiations that it should not be considered that this maternity leave, which is a right for mothers in our system of 105 days, cannot be considered to be a reality for mothers already within this Directive. Nor was the father's vacation – at least in the agreements we had, it was not possible that this directive could be implemented by paternity leave. During the public debate, we have also received a slightly different opinion from the European Commission, which allowed us to take a compromise, given the situation in Europe, the consequences of Europe. As the SD Group said, I would rather personally have that first variant. Opposition to the public and even coalition parties, which have gone primarily towards reducing this right by a solution that is parental leave, is the answer, of course: no. Parental leave has remained the same 260 days and I personally believe that it is wrong to have the view that this month's fathers would not take advantage, that this may be our assumption and that this is wrong. I believe that fathers would take advantage of this; and the view that our mothers see this right as losing one month of parental leave is wrong in my personal opinion. Why? Because parental leave is primarily the right of the child to be with the parents. And of course, how the law creates social reality and affects expectations. I believe it's not a free choice that moms have 12 months today and they're 12 months at home. Many would take this vacation, and look at the data, in history we have parental leave, now about 5 percent of fathers use it in the last period. However, even after discussions with a number of fathers and employers, of course, because now this automatic majority of women take it, employers do not take it as an acceptable form and thus narrow it down to men to decide on this right. A similar discussion was held on paternity leave; then, when a father’s leave was introduced in the country, the employers said they would not endure it, then the men would not do it, and the pressures were pressure. Today there are no problems, 95 per cent of fathers take advantage of this leave, and since its introduction there has been an increase in the share, and today we have 95 per cent of fathers actually benefit from it. But O.K., because it came from the European Commission that we could also otherwise implement this directive, we were trying to find a compromise. I am always in favour of compromise, but I would like to stress here: not where the issue of human rights is concerned. With regard to human rights, I will be a little less prepared for any compromise, I say now. But it doesn't matter. The compromise is now that we actually increase the right to leave when parents are at home with their child. Since the solution is to remain 105 days of maternity leave, which is an exclusive right of the mother, because it is linked to the very fact of birth and is also very limited to the law when it can be transferred to the father, the parental leave remains 260 days, where parents can still, on a basic basis, agree on any kind of division, except for 30 days must be the exclusive right of the mother and then this paternity leave. To be able to implement the directive, we had to be extended because we only have 15 days paid leave and must be equal to Moms, which means that 30 days must be paid. So, the solution to our father's vacation was by law at this point in time that 15 days were paid and 75 days were unpaid. This cannot be considered as a realisation of the directive because the rights of the mother and father must be equal in relation to those 30 days which must be equal. That's why we had to go to the extension solution. So it is now up to you to extend your father's leave, of course, when the state's ability will be, with 30 days' paid leave. Gradually. Thus, when the growth of over 2.5 GDP is expected to take 25 days of unpaid leave each year and change it into 5 days paid, so in three years in a row, up to 30 days of paid paternity leave. However, it is very important and yet we would like to insist that the father's leave is an additional 15 days to be used by the fathers themselves, because if we are discovered, in this public debate, which was about the bill, there were many concerns that fathers would not be able to take care of their children themselves during this growing period. Again, I think that this is an absolute underappreciation of fathers and that if we don't leave them a chance to worry about it, they just can't pull it off. But here now these 15 days will have a parental leave, and this will de facto extend parental leave to 380 days. In fact, this will now be the whole time that parents can be with a child for 380 days. I would also like to say that we have taken into account the proposals made by the Sectional Council for the Family, which is a consultative body in the Ministry for this area, and, on the proposal of this Section Council, for example, we have extended the right to a shorter working time, thus – earlier recorded by the age of 6 – to extend to the end of primary school. Why would you do that? Because it is under the transport law and in relation to the fact that parents have to provide their children with access to school, we have to bring them there and take them to the end of the first grade of primary school. That is why we are also entitled to this right when it is actually expected by the system, if I say so, of the school system, that we parents are so much more involved in the care of the child and in this duty. At the same time, we kept the allowance for a large family, even by the age of 26, if children are still in school, this was in line with the recommendations of the family expert board. It is true, however, that because we have consolidated most of the rights at the end of the first grade of primary school, there have been changes, as you mentioned, in the area of extended parental leave. Here we need to be corrected and say that we have not reached the length of this extension, it is still 90 days this extension, but we have written in the law that parents must fulfill or take advantage of this extension until the end of the first class and not, as it was now, until the age of 8. So we don't reduce this right to how much it belongs to them, just until they have to take advantage of it because we unify things. And we've reduced that right to pay our contributions. If the parents who care for four or more children leave the labour market, we have been reduced from ten years, now it has been ten years to — again the same as that right — by the end of the first grade of primary school. So we are not tied to age, because for various reasons the child can not go to the first grade until the end of the first class. The second thing – also correctly said – about the right to a child allowance to be made on the first day of next month is actually a connection with the ZUPJI because all rights to it are linked, so this unification with respect to the ZUPJI. That's the reduction of things if we look at it that way. On the other hand, this law also extends to so - called social parents, namely those who actually care for the child, by allowing rights — everything concerning both parental protection and family benefits. This, of course, extends the field, the circle of people who are entitled to these rights. One more thing I would like to say is that we want to draw up a new resolution on family policy next year. We adopted such a resolution in 1993; it was very advanced, if I say so, it set certain objectives. It is right that, after such a period of time, we should now look at the feasibility of these objectives, work together to prepare the starting points, discuss them, and adopt the family policy resolution in the light of the demographic trends that lie ahead. But the fact that, based on the current findings, family policies, if we look at European countries, are the most successful, demographically speaking, Scandinavian countries. France is an exception, but especially when we look at it, they have a higher birth rate due to immigrants. In fact, they reach the highest levels of fertility of the Scandinavian country, which have reached the highest level of gender equality and division of labour. Here we also look at our research. The problem with the first child is to delay the realization of the desire for the first child, so that from the 26th year, when we had the average when we had children, when I had Hannah, that is, thirteen years ago, now this average age is 32 years. So the birth of the first child is moving away. In Slovenia, we have the biggest problem with parents not realizing the desire for another or more children. When we ask them in various studies, when they were asked, many times the desire was expressed for more children, but then this desire was not realized for different reasons. And the reasons are not in the regulation on parental protection and family benefits – that is why this resolution on family policy – is more of a problem for the functioning of the labour market, housing policy. Therefore, with these benefits that we give to families, we will not solve the problem of birth in Slovenia, but it is important that, with these rights, where we give a framework of separation between father and mother, we do so in a way that we encourage fathers to play a greater role in family life, because today we cannot possibly go back to expecting women and mothers to choose to choose between their participation in the labour market if you want a career and be a mother. Similarly, it should apply to fathers and the question of how the question of who cares for their children is unacceptable for managers or politicians. [[...]] The same should apply to our male colleagues. The thing about this policy of these benefits is that the state creates the opportunity to achieve an environment in which both men and women and mothers and fathers will equally decide to care for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc, you're next in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps to begin with, this proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits is proof of how important it is that a law with such important content and, last but not least, a law that is crucial to the fate of our citizens, to be adopted on a regular basis, not by an urgent procedure, as has been the case lately. I can say that from the first draft of this law that we have had on the table to this day, the bill has changed dramatically, of course in a positive sense. I can say that the public has been heard with their proposals to take into account the comments made by a number of stakeholders, which, of course, are affected by such a law, so that I can say just to begin by supporting this law at first reading. I am confident that then, in further consideration, in the legislative procedure that with the amendments, I will not say that it can be improved, I will say that it can be upgraded. In the Slovenian People's Party, we place the family high on a scale of values and in our client programme we treat it as a fundamental cell of society. I think that all our common policy, which we are going to do, should go in the direction of allowing primarily the economic autonomy of the family and, above all, creating the opportunity for parents to exercise their right and also their basic duty to raise and care for their children and to enable them to become independent individuals and even honest citizens. I therefore certainly support any measure that brings positive solutions to family and parents. Of course, these include the possibility of extending parental leave and the possibility for parents to agree on their own way of using parental leave. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and especially ourselves, we are aware that, in addition to all these incentives found in this law, it is also important that parents decide for children, that further action should be taken to give young people more opportunities for education and, later, greater opportunities to gain a job, to reach their careers and to create their own lives. Perhaps we will continue to touch on three provisions that I think are the most positive and will be the most positive and will have the most positive impact mainly in the direction of the larger ones – it is said to help larger families and not least to make more money to those who choose parenthood. First, I would say that, above all, a positive change is that up to 20 per cent of the higher child allowance due to the non-involvement of the child in kindergarten is also justified by children after the third year of age, and perhaps further, and the right of parents to agree on their own way of using parental leave. I put this provision first because I think it is very important for the children and not least for the father that, as we have heard many times today, the father has an equivalent right to care for his children and that he is therefore left to both parents so that they can agree on a way of exercising the right to leave. This is very important to me. I think it is right to mention this in this place, we in the Slovenian People's Party have repeatedly used or stressed that there should also be a little more dealing with the so-called – I don't know if this is the right term – extended family. We know that there are many such families today, where young parents care for or raise more children, and in the same household, they live with old parents who care for them. I think that our tax and employment policy should be more resilient or more favoured in this respect as well. Secondly, it seems to me that the extension of the right to a shorter working time in the case of two children up to the age of the child at the end of the first class and the increase in parental leave by 30, 60 and 90 days, if they are already protecting two, three or four or more children, or if they are caring for children or children with special needs. I think this is a very important article. Although it has already been said today that this law will not contribute significantly to parental decision-making for larger families, I think that this provision does, however, lead in some way. Therefore, it may be possible to place a little more emphasis on these large families in this place, since we know that large families have different needs. When a family decides on four or even on more children, we know that this brings about a significant different organization of life. Not only do such families need a bigger apartment, such families need a bigger car, for example. I really hope that this complication regarding more expensive vignettes for family cars will be resolved before the need for purchase of vineyards arises. I still miss, but not in this law, generally, a more understanding tax policy towards large families. We are still in the head of the invitation that long night when we discussed the property tax, where we warned about the real estate tax, especially the fact that the tax is very unfriendly to families and also to large families. We know that large families, which are, unfortunately, increasingly rare in Slovenia, are bringing the country a long-term positive balance, if I may say so, but I don't know if this is the best term, because investing in the family is still a viable return, even a hundred can, because not least every stake is multiplying. All I'd say is family income. I don't know when, but in the Slovenian People's Party we proposed a so-called family income years ago that would deal more fairly with family incomes, even large families, where one of the parents is not employed. Last but not least, I'm going to mention positive changes, because the law really involves a lot of them. I am convinced that it is also positive and not insignificant in law to reduce the administrative burden on employers who will be released after a new one, for example, to meet the basis for the benefit of allowances and the notification of the transfer of leave, and some solutions that will affect the fact that work at social work centres will be simpler and cheaper. As I said at the outset, I will support the law at first reading, by no means with a bitter taste, as I have heard from one of the forerunners, but in the belief that with further procedures, with amendments to the law yes, I will not say fix, but upgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u96	Dear Madam Minister, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! First of all, I would like to have a brief replica of Mrs Majde Potrata's speech, which is the master of Slovenian language, but I would like to draw attention to the phrase we use wrongly in Slovenia. I don't think we should use the word "sex equality" because we know we're not the same. That's why women can be mothers, and fathers are fathers and have a role to play. However, we can talk about gender equality, equal opportunities, equal rights and so on, but this is not about gender equality. And maybe another observation. The law on the exercise of rights to social benefits, we know that it was adopted at the time of the Pahor government, entered into force last year, and this is the most into family benefits, more than the ZUJF. Yesterday, I listened to the Minister at Tarča, who has also identified – and is preparing changes, some of us have already accepted, and so is the case. Family policy is certainly extremely important for each country, but even more so if the country has demographic problems. I am also convinced that only money is not determined whether we have more or less children. More often, the richest have the least child. So money is not the only factor, but careful planning of family policy by the country is extremely important. In addition to having parental leave, so far maternity leave, in Slovenia is extremely well arranged, some positive changes are now envisaged under this new law, but would still stop at two articles or two matters that I do not like. First, when we talk about Article 52, that the father or the mother who decided to stay at home, if they had four or more children and contributions were paid by the 10th year of the youngest child, that this should now be reduced to the end of the first class – I think we are not saving much. After all, a mother or a father who has four children, but they are also taxpayers in the future and have made an important contribution by means of a demographic image, and after entering the labour market, if it is a substitute for a mother or a father, someone will now be out of a job and we may have one more unemployed person. Or if he can't even get a job, but it's still a few years, contributions have been paid and the social situation of such a family has been better, and not least if the parents are home, it's very good for the children that they always have one of the parents at home. So I don't think this savings will save us much, no matter what the means or the support of the family. However, I am pleased that the Minister has listened to the public as well. In particular, I objected to the fact that it would be mandatory for my father to use his leave because I am in favour of an agreement. Mrs Potrata also spoke about this, of course, about the agreement, although I am very fond of the fact that fathers also benefit as much as possible from this leave because the role of the father in children is extremely important and – in our society now we feel a particular problem – the absence of the father due to such a large number of divorces. In the earliest period, it is certainly important for the child to feel the father, although the role of the mother, I think that in the first year is even more important. But I'd stop at another provision that I don't think is in support of the family again. The children’s allowance for single - parent families is supposed to be 30 percent higher, automatic. I don't think that's encouraging. We know that now parents are divorcing themselves precisely because of financial benefits. This doesn't happen very often. I've been told that someone advised, divorced, and you'll have a bigger supplement. That wouldn't be right. We know that regulated law is certainly the best environment for child safety, but I do not mean to say that people cannot make their own choices about how they will live, but the state has to encourage those things that mean greater good for the child and for the family. That's why I think this would be the wrong information: well, if you're a single parent, then you have 30 percent more supplement. I think that this supplement should be given according to the social situation, but not automatically, because some family is single parental and separate life or whatever that means. I would also like to draw your attention to the resolution you have been talking about, Madam Minister. I think we really need to plan this resolution carefully or talk about a positive family policy, and I hope it will indeed go in the direction of promoting a positive family policy. I hope that it will not follow the same path as the Family Code and that respect for the opinion of the general public will be taken into account, as family policy concerns all of us. It is therefore extremely important for us as individuals, for the country, for the whole community and must be welcomed and not subject to any conflict.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has also applied for the floor, but I am giving the replica of Mrs Majdi Potrata first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak, for the compliment. I would not like to point out this, but the equality of women and men is a professional term, which is second-level to equality and is also defined in the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. We are now just before the adoption of the new law and will have sufficient opportunity to give professional reasons for the difference between equality and equality. But that's just why I came by to say that these are two professional terms, and I used the one that got you wrong in terms of terminology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The Minister also has a kind of replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u100	I would say only with regard to the single parent family that the definition of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources should be considered, which has in fact severely restricted the single parent family. Single - parent families are those where he is not really a father; therefore, because there is no other parent, if I say so, because he is dead or something has happened to him or his parental rights have been forfeited. We have very few single parents' families in Slovenia and it is right to protect them because they are those who do not actually have two incomes. Therefore, it is more than right to raise a child's allowance, and there is no link to the past in what we had. This has also been shown, unfortunately, by such a practice too often, that due to the size of the child’s supplements and also due to ambiguity in taking account of who the family member is, this has happened. But those, many times criticised Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, have in fact arranged this in such a way that there are no more possible frauds here, at least without the definition of single parental families according to existing legislation. So you're worried about what you mentioned. However, it is true and the research of the Institute has shown that these families are among the more vulnerable and there is an urgent need to raise this child supplement, so in the amendments to the law, which were supported yesterday by the votes of the coalition, we have excluded this share of the increase from the available income of the family in order not to affect the subsidy to kindergarten and other benefits. But maybe just one more thing to say, because you said so well that you were in favor of an agreement between your parents. Certainly, neither I nor any of those who advocated the original solution are opposed to parents agreeing. The difference between us may be as much as possible an agreement, or we today have established the basis that the actual agreement is acceptable at all. Because we need to be aware that laws, laws, and regulations also generate social reality, what is acceptable and what is not. And in fact, when employers take it that it is not acceptable for a father to be absent for a long time from caring for a child, it is likely that the father is not in the same position as the mother to make a decision about caring for the child. It was the only "point" that, as Minister of Labour, I proposed an initial solution because I believe that today's social reality is not such that such an agreement is really possible. The agreement is possible, of course, on existing social realities and social expectations, which are significantly different from going to Scandinavian countries or, if you want, to the south. Well, that's the difference! I absolutely agree and support the agreement, there must always be an agreement, but there must be equal opportunities for this agreement to be concluded with regard to employers' expectations, its impact on the career and all that is connected. That's not actually possible. And things are – we influence by law, there is also the question of how much by law you carry some expectations, with politics you also create and influence social reality, and how many laws are the result of social reality. There's always a question of how you hunt the balance between these things. It saddens me, therefore, that we are not that original proposal together as a society – that we would want it to be seen as a plus in this. In fact, there has always been an argument against the very fact that we are interfering with the possibility of free choice. I have never looked at this in person, and some part of the profession agrees with this view in creating social reality. Maybe that's the only thing we're really different about, nothing else. I, too, believe that a deal is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! It also seems right for me to express my support for this law at this stage, i.e. in the context of the first reading, because I think it is very important, and as the Minister pointed out in the introduction, there is also a systemic or continuity of the current family policy and, in general, a social protection policy. I also assess that, in the framework of this law, at this level, such as the text now, the importance of the social role of the State is rightly stressed. A certain upgrade will probably be possible in the course of further deliberation and consideration of the law, but all the solutions proposed point in a positive direction. In other words, some dilemmas have been expressed that, although certain content may be delayed or that we will not be fully satisfied now, it is probably true, but I fully assess that this bill is undoubtedly suitable for first reading and also from a strategic point of view, if we look at the country's demography, a step forward. Indeed, from this point of view, I believe that this space – not only Slovenia, but the whole Central European space – is in a very difficult situation, there are many open issues and that is why this law is even more welcome. It is true, however, that we are living at a time when such legislation is difficult to upgrade, because, on the other hand, the economic situation of the State and individuals is unfortunately extremely difficult. Undoubtedly, if we move somewhere on different accounts of a certain financial condition, it will also have to be created somewhere. Nevertheless, I believe that these two things must be done in symbiosis, and therefore I am particularly stressing the importance of this law at this time, and therefore, as I have pointed out in the first reading, I am also announcing support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next debate is mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, for her prepare Dr. Ljubica Jelusič and for her mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The rights governed by the Proposal for a Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits are part of the measures of a uniform family policy. This is implemented in our country and is based on the idea of the social role of the country, so the state cannot overlook a fundamental social cell such as the family. The purpose of parental protection rights is to ensure equal opportunities and to prevent any discrimination against parents, especially mothers, in the labour market. Parental protection contributes significantly to the elimination of differences between women and men in the labour market and promotes a more equitable sharing of child protection and care obligations between women and men. The current arrangement allows parents, especially women, to be as well coordinated as family and professional life. And given that Slovenia is still very uneven in the level of employment of women in the European Union at the summit, the division of unpaid work between partners is still very uneven in existing legislation. Inequality is also reflected in the use of parental protection insurance rights. Although both parents have this right, women are those who mostly benefit from parental leave and part - time work. According to some studies, the difference in time spent by partners on homework increases with the arrival of a child. In Positive Slovenia, we are particularly pleased with the following solutions brought by the proposal for a law. Let me list them: the implementation of the European acquis into Slovenian legislation, which promotes more equal distribution of the obligation of protection and care between women and men; the regulation of rights for social parents, which regulates the adoption leave to the same extent as for parental leave for biological parents; the harmonisation of legislation with the European Social Charter and the exercise of rights under the Labour Law, which reduces the administrative burden for employers; the simplification of work in social work centres, where work at centres will be simpler and cheaper; and the simplification of the content of rights and deadlines. Since the existing parental protection policy in Slovenia is effective in terms of women's employment, but not in terms of reducing inequalities between women and men in the field of professional and family life coordination, I believe that the proposed changes to the law are more than welcome. I am confident that the amendments to the proposed legislation will have many positive effects in this area. I will therefore support the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I would point out one specific aspect of legislation that we sometimes forget, but it seems to me that this law, as well as in some others that we have adopted these days, should be more present; this is a cultural aspect or a valuable aspect of the law. For many years we believed that we were a country with the best-ordered parental care, and we were proud of it. Now, sometimes we find that we may be even more comparable in length of parental leave, or somewhere better with other European countries, in some other areas concerning equal opportunities and equal parental responsibilities, and so we will say that we are barely chasing a step towards the average of the European Union, as shown in the European directives. The second thing, which is also of value, is nominal. For many decades, for almost six decades, we have been taking maternity leave for mothers in this country. After this law, mothers will go on maternity leave. For quite some time, we will be dealing with public expression that will try to maintain some old value or old term maternity leave, and it will not be easy to prove that there is no more maternity leave, but they are motherly and fatherly leave, even though we have known fatherly and parental leave until now. But it's going to be hard for this maternity mom to give up, and our daughters are going to go on maternity leave for sure. The third thing, which is also of value to me, is related to this dilemma, which has been stopping the progress of this law for several months, namely, how much compulsory paternity leave belongs to men. In the discussions over the past months, there have been many different stakeholders, as is said to be modern today, but at the very least we have heard those who are seriously affected, and these are young men, we will say potential fathers. That means those who would need this compulsory paternal leave. This is because in the last 10 years, perhaps even many things have changed significantly in the thinking of young men, and perhaps the elderly have not noticed this at all. First of all, the vast majority of men today attend their mother’s school with future mothers — and this is natural. The vast majority of these men are present in childbirth, and this is natural today. Ten years ago, this was a matter that was discussed, a matter that had to be publicly pointed out if anyone was able to bear the birth of his wife or the birth of his child. Today, young men are becoming more and more natural. And also wanting to have a longer paternal leave is becoming more natural for men. I also say this on the basis of experience from the organisation, knowledge of the situation from the organisation, which we can now claim to be largely masturbating. And that's the army. Both the Slovenian Army and other armies, comparatively speaking, in Europe know the trend in the last decades when men — and this has become one of the values or components of the ethics of the military profession, that all men decide on paternity leave. And it is perfectly natural among them, even though they are part of a mastic organization, that this leave is a kind of sacred right that belongs to them, and black are in an organization that operates on a collective principle, they do not wish to renounce that right. I would warn that, however, sometimes it is good to hear the voice of those who are affected when legislation is adopted, and I attach what the minister says is that legislation creates social reality. I think that, above all, when it comes to material rights, there is the creation of this social reality. However, the problem is when the reality of the value system of young people is already beyond what policy is capable of entering into legislation. I support the law and I think it is quite appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hochevar, behind her, Mr Mag. Ivan Vogrin, followed by Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I welcome you, of course, the Minister with the co-workers! The law in the first reading was supported for a simple reason, because I think it brings benefits to citizens, to our families and brings burdens, both for citizens and for employment. In doing so, I should first mention the decision on the right to compensation provided for in this Title. This is what we do in the Civil Gazette in all areas to ensure that the state does not require anything from you, not the data it already has. Here we are pleased that Dursa’s records and social work centres will be linked so that these compensations can be calculated by the centres themselves, without employers or those who will benefit from them being physically involved. I too will talk more about the positive things I see under this law. First of all, you might want to mention the benefits of your vacation. I am not in favour of giving citizens every step of the way what they have to do. Here I am more committed not to make this happen, but especially to the progress of society and the progress towards gender equality. I am more concerned about this information, which is reflected in the explanation of the bill's proposal, that only 5 per cent of fathers opt for today's leave of care and child protection. And as in one way, we have not prescribed parental schools for a father, I think we have much to talk about, and in all areas, we have to strive for equality between women and men, and that in time the fathers themselves will realize the usefulness of deciding that they are present in the first months of their child's life as much as possible. Pre-school education. We know that our congregations and the state budget are very expensive for kindergartens and also for teachers. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate for those parents who choose to protect their children in their home environment or to provide themselves with some other form of child support. As for shorter working hours, those parents who have children are well aware that the organization of professional and family life in the first class is more difficult than in kindergarten. I therefore welcome the fact that this possibility is now given until the end of the first class of the primary school. Of course, in this way or through this law, we take it from those large families, those who leave the labour market. In this context, I might say that I have talked to many mothers about this form, and many have told me that after ten years it is difficult to return to the labour market and do not have all the organised family life in such a way that they can now afford this absence permanently. Perhaps it is also in fact here to consider that after six years we are encouraging them, or allowing them to return to the labour market after the children have grown up. For ten years, though, I feel like it's been a really long time for any mom to get back in or actually get a job. Ms Ludmila Novak said that some are divorcing themselves in order to have greater social rights. I wouldn't accuse the Slovenes and the Slovenians, and maybe there's a case like this. But I'll tell you another case. Although we did not refer to the press conferences, we have called on Minister Omerzel to advocate that the wines mentioned by Mr Prevc should be allowed to blame the disabled and also families with more children. Somehow, he gave us such a commitment or promised that they would save this with the minister of employment, but the ministry provided us with one other information when we pointed out this. Large families have the option or bonus to exempt from taxes on motor vehicles on the first registration of vehicles and pay only half the compensation for road use each year. These vehicles are in Slovenia 2 000. But out of these two thousand, there are 800 such vehicles, which are luxurious and sporting, and according to the Ministry's assurances, are not at all suitable for the transport of children. So now we can accuse large families, or we can accuse separated parents. I wouldn't charge anyone. But I am in favour of justly trying to resolve family policies for large families, for single - parent families, for foster families, or for others. I also particularly welcome this aspect of social parents or the ratings they are introducing from this title. Let me put it this way: children who have their parents around them, and even if there is some euro, they have at least their love and commitment. In particular, I feel sorry for the foster children and for those who must or are forced to live in other forms of family, so that we must pay particular attention to them, but I have no doubt that the Minister is following them. That was my view of it. I believe that the Minister will listen to various initiatives, as well as to the opinions of various initiatives, which will indicate that this law can be improved in treatment, or I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, followed by Mrs Iva Dimic and followed by Mr Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This law has long been one of the laws that came into the procedure following a regular procedure. It therefore has the opportunity to improve in the second and further consideration until adoption, but it has another surprising feature that is based on experience from practice. What colleague Katarina Hočevar said is that very few fathers decide on parental leave and then it is pointless to force them into this, even the experience in my company has been such, is, of course, what the law takes into account. And it's a good thing we've heard practical experiences. The law is good at first reading. I fully agree with the allegations and I am fortunate that Mrs Hočevar has so clearly defined the characteristics and I do not need to repeat this. However, I hope that, of course, you will listen carefully to the comments they will make and take into account them, so that it will be possible for a really long time to have one law based on logic and what is actually happening in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister and colleagues and fellow Members! It is true that parental leave and maternity leave, if I may say so, are very well arranged in Slovenia, and I think that in the future both coalition members and opposition members must strive to defend the current arrangements for parental leave and maternity leave. I think that the importance of family policy may not be discussed enough throughout the year. There are several aspects and I would like to point out that housing policy must be more integrated into family policy. True, many young families are more likely to afford a child if they had the opportunity. I have to say, not least, big families here, I'm going to tell my family, I've got big families in front of me, even bigger ones, who have 6, 8 kids who really can't live in a two-bedroom apartment. And I think it's important that we take one step forward here, too, because not least we meet a lot of families who say, "We would have, but there are five in 50 square meters." Even large families with more children, I have 7 children or more in front of me, have these children in a short time. The kids are all little. That is why we welcomed and, therefore, I have also pointed out in my position the 52nd paragraph, which shortens the right to pay social security contributions to one of the parents for leaving the labour market. Just because such a family, such a number of children are not easy to control, and it seems to me that as soon as it reaches the age of 10, it is a very long time. I don't know what else I might have missed in the final and transitional provisions, but what we're going to do with the families that now have and benefit from it is 8 years old, 9 years old. What are we gonna cut them off for then? I think that things need to be settled here, and we also need to have their actual situation in society before our eyes, that it is currently in the midst of all this tax legislation that we are adopting these months, that it is really unfriendly to large families, because we need to know that large families contribute the most to the state treasury. Maybe someone will agree with me, but look, someone who has 8 children has to buy 8 shoes, they have to take 8 to the hairdresser, they have to buy 8 children liters of milk, food, and here's higher VAT. This is very familiar to such families. The vines are not the last to know each other. You know, in families like this, they also look at 20 cents of food prices difference, what kind of bread they're going to buy. It has been mentioned that many large families have large cars, but I tell you that many such families of large cars cannot even afford them because such cars cost more than their family budget can afford. I agree with a colleague who said 800 of these families have luxury cars. That's why we supported the introduction of the financial police. Just because we also warn that some of the beneficiaries of social transfers and everything possible are on the lowest income, then they bring the children into kindergarten in the best cars. That's unfair. But if their financial situation, including large families, allows it, I don't think they have social transfers to do it either. I would also like to mention that the importance of such large families is also intergenerational. It was mentioned that we may say extended families too few times, but such large families often live with the elderly. There is also a much greater note of intergenerational cooperation. I think that the whole social policy of both our governments, and I think that you will continue now that there will probably be more people who, due to the high costs and low pensions, will not be able to pay home for the elderly. Here I see an opportunity for such families to be able in a way – which is certainly cheaper for the country, we discussed a lot, there was a lot of speech and it was written that it was cheaper for such families with such encouragement that they would take better care of the elderly. Unless we as a nation help ourselves and adopt legislation that will somehow follow the existence of our people into the future — yes, who will work, and what will we live on? I think it is precisely because of this that it is right to discuss once again the 52nd Article, Madam Minister-in-Office. I think that every child over 3 or above 2 in the long term means a lot to Slovenia. It means the new future payer to the pension fund, it means the preservation of the nation, and it means, last but not least, the preservation of our entire society. And it really needs to be protected. I would expect, Madam Minister, that we will be able to agree on Article 52 because I see here those who already have two or three children to make a decision about which one is easier. When these children are seven to two years old, I see this as a good measure, even though you mentioned that it is not so much. There are thousands of 500 of them, sort of, according to the data we got on your ministry's website. I think this is a minimum cost for the country and it is certainly a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Katarina Hočevar, the Minister has the floor for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u114	We'd have a better fix, wouldn't we? Perhaps Mrs. Dimic misunderstood me, but it is also possible that I misspoke the information. Of those 2,000 cars there are 80 luxury cars, not 800. If I said it wrong, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Even the secretary wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u116	I would just like to clarify that those who now have a recognised right to reimbursement will not be reduced by this. If they're approved, they'll have it to the end. That's how much the fear is. As far as your call for Article 52 is concerned, that's basically the only thing we've taken into account. We have also taken account of Mr Merchet, which is the Family Initiative, which participates in the Section for the Family, and we have talked. But you may have to hear the Ministry's arguments sometimes. In the second reading debate, we will probably have much to talk about. The fact that there is a question here, one thing is, as I said before, that there is a social security system, that these mothers, without being on the labour market, do not pay their contributions, get the right to maternity leave every time they give birth, parental leave, and can in fact be absent from the labour market for most of their lives. Is this really the way this country encourages? We can ask ourselves what kind of pension these women or those mothers will have. Also from the point of view of your policy, the question is whether this is really the most encouraging thing for these mothers, or whether it would not be better for the state to give them specific reintegration programmes to the labour market, such as Austria. Because the issue of women's poverty starts at work age. We will continue to talk here, but not so simple and unique answers to any policy. But perhaps only that family policy should certainly take into account the needs of large families, single parents, extended families, must be sufficiently plural here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. He will now discuss Marko Pavlišič, after him Franz Bogovic and after him Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Now, in this first reading, I will limit myself to just two articles and even more technically than social ones. The first is Article 9 concerning contributions. I think we could take one step further in simplifying the payment of contributions here. The fact is, an employee, says an employee, is interested in net salary as much as he gets in the account. The employer is interested in gross wages, the total cost of work is said, and the country is interested in how much contributions it receives. Why should these contributions be divided into two pieces, the employer's contributions, into the contributions of the employee, if this practically always accounts for the same person who also orders and pays? Why do you have to have two accounts, two calculations? In the case of payment orders, I think we have already taken one step forward, that there are no more two or even there, depending. Why don't we take one step forward here, and say, well, from a gross salary so much in some higher total percentage, that in the end it's the same amount and we've already simplified the work a little bit to those who account for wages. And I know that this is how we now account for all contributions like this, but somewhere we need to start. And Minister, you can start here with this law and this contribution. In short, to simplify this system, the gross is so much, the contributions are so much, the income so much and the rest goes to the employee account that we really make here a little bit simpler this system. Although it would be even better if the worker were paid a lot of gross wages, then he were to pay contributions and income, which I honestly believe would change the state's attitude towards citizens and taxpayers in this case. Otherwise, it would probably be a little more trouble to recover this, but this is an integral part of it, because citizens must somehow come to this stage so that citizens will be happy to pay their contributions and taxes because they know that this is for the benefit of all of us, including to ensure social security. So I suggest you think this way to make certain simplifications here. My second comment, however, goes to 115th Article, on a gradual application. You know that saying who quickly does, twice does. Please, let's stop giving out rights once it's done. Now this "if" is when economic growth is above 2.5% per year. Either you give or you don't. Not if, if a bee didn't have a bee, the bee would be white, and so would the bee. [[...]] However, as far as I know, there may also be difficulties in this point as to whether or not we have properly implemented the European Directive. So there should also be another good consideration. But since this is in the first reading, we still have a lot of time at our disposal. I also miss a slightly more modern approach in the law than in the case of a man: a woman, equality or equality, then I will continue to process it, but let's say there is no e-business in this law. But there are roles, written agreements and similar matters. Let's make it a little easier here, because parents can also take care of what they want to do by e-time, you don't have to go to a social work centre. It's really not a bad place to visit. Now I would like to read a few more sentences from the newspaper Finance in early November, when they published an interesting contribution concerning this equality between women and men, bearing the title Women's Attention, Slovenian men are among the most suitable in the world. "Slovak men are among the best in the developed world, showing research on the organisation for cooperation and development. Although Slovenian women still do more in the household, the difference between sex and the smallest in the group of the most developed countries is the difference. The male population on the sunny side of the Alps does so on average for 3 hours and 51 minutes of household chores and better half for 4 hours and 46 minutes." I personally admit that since I am a Member, I am significantly less than I used to be. Slovenia ranks 6th among Norway and Germany. According to the OECD, most Slovenian fathers take advantage of their right to parental leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The Minister wanted to respond to this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u120	I'm not going to comment on the article because I haven't seen it. Parental leave is the fact that we have 5% paternity leave and, unfortunately, we mix these terms with fatherly, motherly, parental, but the facts are facts. But we know how it goes. The paper carries a lot of things. Perhaps you would like to say that this law is still going in the direction of simplification. In particular, employers will be able to report their salaries to social work centres via electronic applications. This is a huge simplification for them, so this law goes a few steps further in this area and tries to relieve employers. The second thing you've commented on is a directive. I agree, therefore, that the initial proposal of this law regarding the implementation of the directive would be nothing on candy and sometimes later. It was an immediate solution, but we did not reach agreement for it either in the coalition or in the public, so that in fact there was no other way to implement the directive unless we provided an additional EUR 15 million in the budget immediately, which costs these additional 15 days of paid leave for the father. These are the facts. Although we can talk about another reading, it is sad to say. Regarding the insurance system, as you mentioned, however, it is not good to interfere with system regulation in the field laws. In particular, the Social Security Contributions Act lays down the manner in which contributions are paid. However, in the coming year it will be necessary to agree on and open a basic law, which is the basic law on the basis of which social contributions are paid, because this will solve many of the issues we have. And I believe that this is the way to relieve the cost of work if we can discuss the foundations. On the inside, different options can then be possible, but I believe that from the employer's point of view, the view of the system is such that it is worth simplifying and systemic things are not going. You know that we are always comparing and that the social security system is justified by the fact that contributions are paid both by employers and by employees, that this contribution is usually the same. In Slovenia, the only thing within Europe is that workers pay more than employers in pension payments and that this is a unique one, so Slovenia, after this division, when we compare European countries according to the share, is the share paid by employees higher than in other European countries, which is actually a unique one. It's always an individual's view or an employer's view, which is right. It is also necessary to look at this and then find systemic solutions that will allow individuals within this system not to overburden them. I believe that it is possible, for example, to find more electronic transactions and such things, but not to cut into these foundations of the social security system. On this issue, we will also talk about this in the context of the second reading, but this law also, according to the opinion of that group on removing administrative barriers, makes a significant contribution to reducing the administrative barriers of employers, so that I will probably get some Stop bureaucracy in this area again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, you have the floor. It is followed by Dragan Bosić, Alenka Jeraj, Peter Oder and Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Since the first reading is, it sounds like a lot of things. Today, it is interesting to listen to different views on how to lift birthrates and other things. We are all discussing, without some sociological research, and perhaps someone else is also burdened by traditional views of the family, the husband of the wife, and more. We are different, but today we face only this, family, number, living in poverty, and this is our pattern. And if anyone thinks that if we lower the price of vignettes, and if anyone thinks that if we lower the road tax or anything, that we're going to have a higher birthrate in this country, I don't think that's serious. We have a whole range of wealthy families who simply don't have more than one, maybe two children or none, and they won't have one, for a simple reason, because they want to live in a chest, travel, the standard they have, use on skiing, on yachts and elsewhere. It is therefore not an easy matter to discuss how to raise a nativity. There's a lot to turn around in people's heads, even between relationships in families and so on. I have some experience from one of my previous works. But it's still a good thing we're talking about this. Even what the colleague said to pay him even his salary, not his salary, I mean personal income with contributions worth, and then he'll pay his contributions. I'm asking you nicely, because we're not in communism to say, I'll take as much as I need, but I'll give you more than I need. That's not working, I'm sorry. When you're young, you won't pay for health care, like today some who can, but don't pay for the pension fund, where there's age, and then the state will help me. I don't criticise your opinion, but it's idealized, but it would be great. Look, we're not talking today, Roma have a whole bunch of kids having a family. He's living under a lot of conditions? They live decently, if you say, in some parts of Slovenia. And this goes on because of the social state we have. As for vacations, let's face it, probably someone has some experience when a pregnant worker comes in front of a capitalist and says, "I'm pregnant." How many times is the relationship? And in secret, women have to sign before they get to work so they don't get pregnant, I don't know how long. That's our big problem. You know, it's true today that if you're out of your profession for one year, it's hard to get back. If you're five, six years old, it's even harder. But since it's hard for you to come back, there can be no excuse, "then don't have kids, but you don't have to be pregnant" and so on. These thoughts need to be turned around. And also vacations, you know, in marriage this kind of leave should be legalized, not for the sake of a wife and a husband. For the sake of employers — for them. Ask them. When they hear that we're adding 10 or 20 more working days for maternity leave, if I make it very simple, they'll say, "But who will work, we have to pay, and when he comes back, he has no idea anymore" and so on. Such discussions are difficult, serious and harmful. I think it is right that we discuss all of this to prepare a law for second reading with comments that have been made to make things easier. We really have this red tape, and that poor guy, don't take it too hard for me to understand, sometimes some marriage is hard to understand, an article, and someone who's supposed to be able to read it ten times, but they won't understand it, then they go to a social work center, and there's an explanation that even less knows. Let's help out here with legislatable laws. Just as the Minister explained some of the problems very clearly, understandable and lifelike, in a little longer performance, so the law should also be written. I think it's right, it needs to be updated, and in time it will need to be updated again. And some traditional thinking – still many say that the wife should be at home, and I will go to work, and vice versa. But there's a whole bunch of families where husbands and wives are, you don't know who's a man, who's a woman in housework, who's taking care of kids, and so on. That's how families are, luckily. And there'll be more and more. Since it is impossible for both of us — me and my wife — to go to work, we are there for so many hours and so many hours, when we get home, I’m in front of the TV, and she’s all the rest. These times are over. And even the times, you know, when the family had a housekeeper, we once said the maid who helped, they passed because there was no money for it. Relationships need to be changed, and the laws we change must help bring this to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek, followed by Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In theory, I agree with Ambassador Pavlisic in many ways, but I think we both know that in practice things do not go as they were said. Oh, he nodded, so he agrees. Basically, we should first look at the fact that there is a crisis in our country that is already multi-annual. It is therefore very important what we do and do in the parental field. A few years ago we had a positive trend in the growth of live births, the last two years of this number falling or now, I think for 2012 it staggers, after the fall in 2011. However, in my view, the real impact of the crisis on live births has not yet been demonstrated. And the longer the crisis takes, the fewer parents will be for the child, or I will say, for the children, the more they are, the harder they will be, or they won't make any decisions. Since my colleague Jelusič spoke earlier about young fathers or those who decide or decide on paternity, and she related this to leave, I would also like to express my opinion on this. When the Minister came with a proposal on 30 days of paternity leave, which would be non-transferable, I also immediately reacted that I did not agree with it. Why? I just believe that the partners can agree on each other, that of course they respect each other and that they will be able to agree – I don't know if I live on Mars or if I'm idealistic about how few of us are, but I doubt it. I think the partners can talk to each other. We also need to know that in the social situation we are in, sometimes that month of leave would know who to be an obstacle to. There's been a lot of talk about that, and I believe that's true. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has listened to this and that she has, in fact, found in some way, an almost universal solution to this problem, with which we did not have a problem, both personally and in the Civil Gazette. I have already said in my position today that, therefore, 75 days of unpaid leave, which will be slowly suspended, and those 15 days of paid leave, which will be on arrival, will probably not have any major economic impact for employers. Even if we rent out what it's meant to be. And just one more thing about equality between women and men or parents, I'd rather say. In Slovenia, data is kept, the number of mothers who are employed is above average, very high. And this can, I don't know whether we can praise or agree on it, but it certainly draws this behind us, and we need to be aware that young mothers can find themselves in the position of a Member when they have to sit for 20 hours at a meeting, and they can do worse. In contrast with the role of the father, the role of the mother is different in nature, however we turn. So I would be happy in this equality or equality if we also looked at these purely human or biological differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Right now, Mr. Dragan Bosnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u126	It's because of the list, it wasn't about priorities for someone else. [[Incomprehensible]] First of all, in the first reading, as my colleague Dimitrovski said, I support the law, but I did not come forward to say this as a key piece of information. I'd like to comment on certain things. The first is that this is the first reading, and it is quite possible to work on this law in terms of the simplification that I spoke about yesterday, and it is also Brulc's colleague earlier, if I understand correctly. That's one thing. It may already begin with a nomenclature: motherly, fatherly, parental, it already simplifies, although it will take some time for this to happen somewhere. But what I like about this marriage is that it puts a child at the forefront. So, the marriage is tied to the interests of the child. It's all about him. And it is also a good solution to this transfer to the one who actually cares about this child. So it's a child's welfare. It's a very important matter. Fifteen days to be added, if I got it right, and if I ask if I got it right, I usually ask when I am. So five days is going to replace 25 gradually and then we get to these 15 plus 15 is 30. And then from this point of view, some equality is guaranteed. I'm sorry I couldn't react to the well-intentioned provocation of my colleague Jelusic earlier. Young man, it's been a while, but as a grandfather, let's say, something like that. When it comes to people's relationship to making families, taking care of children, it bothers me to listen to many calculations. Many times it's a calculation, I'd do it, but now, if I were to get married, if there was some benefit here, if that, what, third. Maybe I come from a period when families formed out of love, there were fewer calculations, more irrational decisions. But then you jump and swim as hard as you can. And this element is missing somewhere. That's not what we're hearing here. And it's not being solved by this legislation that we're hearing about today. The first is that, in this context, it is possible to talk about labour market reform and other matters. But as far as equality is concerned, we will talk more about it in a short time. I wouldn't go down that road. But this thing would look different if the family code had another epilogue like it used to be. But it bothers me every time someone uses a natural marking. Then I cut my ears a little, and now I'm listening, and now what's natural here? The presence of a male child at birth would not put it in the natural category. It's certainly nice, and if it's a partnership deal, it's great that a man is there and he's standing by. But of course it's not, by definition, it's not. Now to tell someone he wasn't natural because he wasn't there. I get mad at someone who's there and then does more confusion than I have to, which means that midwives deal with him with resuscitation and then, when it's all over, they say, "Well, great, you've given birth, great now." I don't know. And he's certainly not there to eat the popcorn or anything natural he's done in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, for her mag. Matthew Tonin, Jakob Presecnik, Andreja Črnak Meglič, Štefan Tisel and Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much. It has already been said that the first law was passed in 2001 and then amended twice. In fact, we also had the Family Code, which some things he predicted and also tried to regulate. We disagreed with a lot of people in the Family Code, and because there was no agreement, he ended up in a referendum where people rejected him. However, some of the solutions in it were indicated to be positive, and that is also what we said at the time, and it is right that they can be regulated in other laws, where possible, and still be introduced. Surely the area of parental protection, family discussions, and so forth are important, as well as a sensitive area where care needs to be exercised, because you can also cause a bad trend by making wrong decisions, and we can see this with some solutions, so it is really important that we unify ourselves around good solutions and accept them. In view of what we can read in the law in the context of financial effects, where it is indicated that funds for child allowances and contributions are being reduced in the case of four or more children. Children's allowances have already been significantly reduced by social legislation which entered into force last year. Together, we agreed that the consequences would be analysed and then things would try to fix. Part of it is done through this law, and that's fine, but we probably shouldn't overdo it. He was also not friendly to family and family policy last year, but we tried not to interfere with those with low or poor social status and so on, but in, I will not say superstandard, but at least the average amounts to the families that received such benefits. What we should be worried about is, of course, what we have been reading lately that many parents are no longer able to pay for the daycare. In doing so, we may have had a little bit of a bad hand in guiding the policy of subsidising payments to kindergartens and so on. We know that people even got divorced because they paid for the daycare. I have worked on the congregation of such decisions and also decisions to parents that we have assigned to them, where you can practically not, even as an official, if the papers show a condition, regardless of whether you know that people do not have such a social situation or financial situation in the family, you cannot influence this or would be subjective assessment if all the data shows that someone lives on the social side, but we know that children are brought into kindergarten with Beemwei and so on. In addition, a number of kindergartens do not pay because they know that children should not be expelled from kindergarten and that is why unpaid payments are collected. Otherwise, kindergartens go into executions, but first they try a lot of things, so parents wait, give them the opportunity to pay for meals and the like, but surely this should worry us because it's a trend and we can read about it. So it's very important, and it's much better for me, too, to help directly pay for kindergarten than to give someone a subsidy that you might spend on something else. In kindergartens, this is how you do it, but maybe some other transfers that are meant to do it, and then they're used for something else. Also, the reduction in contributions in the case of four or more children is discussed in Article 52, where this is being reduced, and the fact that someone can be at home, I have to agree with some of the things Mr Brulc has said that in fact today many young people, even because of a simpler common life, may decide for just one child. Although I think it's not only to be able to ski, but to the sea and so on, but it's a bit of a trend, but as I've said many times before, one of my acquaintances says that there should be three children in each family, one for Mommy, one for Dad and one for the country. In fact, we would replace the long-term picture of nativity or demographic image, which is also not pink and trends are bad, so I think we should be very careful in large families nonetheless. I know moms who are very fond of moms, and I think it's great that they make decisions for more kids, even if they're not very financially wealthy, but they can live in a modest way, and the kids aren't deprived of anything. But they need to be supported. I think that really big families are also very important, even a few of them, even a few associations and institutions deal with them and help them. But we're doing some kind of wrong move again. An increase in the price of vignettes for those cars that are slightly larger, and such cars also have families that have more children, because in one personal smaller car they cannot get four or five children, they will have to pay more in this case. Therefore, such a measure may be a little reckless if we want to help families and also favor larger families and encourage parents to make decisions for more children. I think we have experience from the past, when the trend has improved also due to some measures. Although I know that we are currently in a poor financial situation and it is difficult to give extra money, but at least the standard we have would not be abandoned. Here we also get to the norms in school and kindergarten, or there are too many children in the classroom or in the kindergarten room, but I think we have too much standard there, despite everything, because we were in school meals and kindergartens ourselves, and we know that with a few more children in the group we can work. As a society, however, we are more demanding, everything is more difficult, and we expect some standard, so it is difficult for us to cancel something that we have achieved. But I think we will have to continue for at least some time to re-establish some order in our public finances. Brultz also said that with capitalist young moms, they say they're pregnant and so on. In fact, they are asked when they come to the job interview, ask them how many children they have, or if they are going to have something soon, which is the problem. Although I think that when much more has begun to talk about it, when we are also talking about mobile phones and so on, that things are improving and many people don't even hope to question future employees so directly, it is right that we are talking about these things, that it is actually getting smaller and things are improving. The law provides for simplification of work for the Centre for Social Work. We have also talked here several times about these famous forms that people have to fill out. I haven't read so much right now, I think it's more of an administrative matter, that it's just a simple shipment, harmonisation of deadlines and the like, but there's no talk of automation, at least in children's supplements, it could probably be because we have data on children, about their age and so on. So that people's work at the social work centre could be significantly facilitated, even if this were to take place automatically, so that no investment would have to be made every time. Some savings will certainly also be made in respect of the rights attached to the age of a child for 8 years to the first grade of primary school. Of course, they're younger kids now, because we have a nine-year-old. In this respect we should also, and I think that the Minister of Education has already promised to do some evaluation of a nine-year-old, but this is a matter of other laws, what happens to our children then in the first or in the lower classes. I think that's how evaluation's gonna bring it. In the SDS we will be more detailed or we will also prepare amendments mainly to those articles that speak, as I mentioned, about larger families of four or more children. Because we do appreciate that it is good to encourage larger families as well. However, we should probably have a strategy to encourage parents to have more children. This is difficult in times of crisis when people are afraid to work every day or whether they will still have a job or not. But we know it's not always all money. But in addition, as I said before, it will also be necessary to talk about the cost for parents of kindergarten, why kindergartens do not pay and what we will do about it, because I fear that it will be or is already a very big problem. And sooner or later, he's gonna have to be saved in some way. Otherwise, it is not only a matter of the state, even of the local communities, but what a change will be needed in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, behind her mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello again. If I was proud of anything, I was certainly proud of family politics in the Republic of Slovenia. What was most important was an extremely high degree of consensus on what to regulate, which rights to regulate in legislation, both left and right forces. In particular, in 90 years this degree of consensus has led us to substantially strengthen the child supplement, to increase the rights of inclusion in kindergartens and so on. I am glad that I have played a very active role in this. That is why this change that we have before us today, at least in my eyes, is primarily an upgrade or continuation of this trend of empowerment, which in this case extends mainly to social parents, is said to those who actually care for children. This is the great gain that this new law brings. However, I must certainly respond to the comments made in the previous debate that there has actually been a reduction in rights under social law. That's just not true. The only change that has taken place in the area of family rights has been the abolition of the student scholarship, but, not entirely analogous, I admit, the child allowance has increased. Well, that's what we did yesterday. These things are coming back. However, huge changes and deterioration of rights have occurred with Zuyfa. And it was those who spoke so much about it that they were surprisingly quiet at the time. I agree that otherwise the changes have been made mainly in the medium layer. But you know, it's this middle layer that we should encourage the most to have more children. The second thing I would like to say is that there are several studies in Slovenia as well. Among the last ones, I would mention the research done at the Institute of Social Protection in Slovenia, and I would like to ask that the summary of this study be prepared for the meeting of the home committee when we talk about the law. Why? Because here I think we're pretty much talking about what's affecting, what's not affecting. But this research has shown something that is very interesting. The reproductive standard, that is to say the desire, how many children we want to have, is still quite decent in Slovenia. But when obstacles arise, why is it not realized — you know what reasons young parents give in the first place? Division of work between the sexes. And that's exactly what the directive was meant for. Through Shivanka's ear, we have escaped the European Union's warning through the interpretation we have introduced on the basis of public opinion pressure. The solution that is written down, however we are looking at it, is a step backwards for me, because the countries that we are talking about, in fact, have the highest standards of democracy, such division of labour during the most delicate development period of the child are mainly established in Scandinavian countries. Norway, one of the countries with the highest birth rate in Europe, has three months of non-transferable parental leave for the father. Sweden is two months old. And what happened? As a result of such changes, relations within the family began to change substantially. I return to the fact that legislation creates social reality. Indeed, it has changed for the better, there is a greater division, more participation of young eyes in the upbringing and care of this child and more evenly shifting burdens between father and mother. And that's what I'd like to point out. I'm really worried about these allegations, yes, the deal will bring about changes. Nothing has changed, since 1984 we have legalized this transfer option, and still only 5% of fathers benefit from it. No, it doesn't change. Sometimes we also need legislative incentives. And look, we can draw the best parallel with the odds. Nothing has changed until quotas have been introduced. However, by introducing quotas, the ratios are changing and a more equitable participation of women is established. And why does Europe so insist on this? Now look at the latest efforts to introduce quotas in the administrations of large companies. It is precisely because it is clear that there is evidence that such changes introduce a real change in gender relations or their more equal participation in the labour market as well as in all other areas. Maybe what's very worrying is, too, I know that this is not the only research, I know that even in my college, these studies have been done quite a bit, but not only in the sense that our fathers are decent, but the fact is that with the birth of a woman's child they take on a very high burden, and that this is not only known in the division of work, where, in fact, women are mostly involved in those tasks that they could call domestic tasks and so on, while those other tasks with which the child takes on some interesting activities and so on are a little more involved in men. Women work much more and still the left share of the work in the household, although this, thank God, changes. But what's interesting is that with the arrival of the child, it's quoted in the same material in the OECD study that the difference in average wages between men and women increases. That's what we're talking about, that's why we're talking about this participation, more even division and so on. I personally think that it would be appropriate to continue with the effort in such a way that perhaps, with a slight omission in the past, they can also do much more for the sake of fertility alone. Yes, it is true that if we want to provide simple reproduction, every other family should have three children. He calculated this years ago, Dr. Malačič. But you know, once again, I'm going back to this study, and it's going to be contributed to the greatest extent by a more gender-balanced division of responsibilities. This will make the most of it. Then parents will also make greater decisions for their children. Women just don't agree that it's just or to a large extent their burden. Finally, I would like to say that I want this law, which we will continue to deal with, to the greatest extent possible with ideological debates, because they are not good. They're not good, and they're not gonna get us anywhere. We must follow in creating an optimum situation for children in this country, in accordance with the options we have, regardless of the type of family children live in. I am therefore pleased that this family policy is so decisively contributing to our children's well-being. Maybe another piece of information. Yesterday, I quoted data on how, at the risk of poverty, social transfers halve this level of risk of poverty. The State's intervention with family policy measures in children contributes even more significantly. Slovenia is actually among the first four countries with the lowest risk of poverty due to family policy measures. So I'm going to say, let's move forward in this direction, look for consensus in the maximum possible way, and think about how our children will be better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I would only suggest that my predecessors read on the 14th page of the introduction to the law, where it is clear from the table that the number of beneficiaries of the children's allowance decreased, namely in 2011 the beneficiaries were 367 thousand 525 and in 2012 the beneficiaries were 282 thousand 220, which is 23 % less. So we cannot say that social legislation, even though we have been inclined to regulate all rights from one place and quite a few things have been settled in this way, we cannot say that no, but the fact is that the number of beneficiaries of the child allowance has significantly decreased.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much. However, it is only right that, as to what social, what Zujf has done, we may put a very difficult gap in place, only the facts are that social legislation has entered into force on 1 January 2012. When we were preparing it, the calculations were made into numbers, and then the weightings were made. Child support was affected by social legislation, if we look at the de facto, mainly by the abolition of the child allowance for those over 18 years of age. That's de facto. In fact, he had a significant impact on Zujf, who had abolished the seventh and eighth grades of the child supplement and reached 10 % at the rate of the sixth. If I were in 2012, I wouldn't have allowed interference in this area. Why not? Because we knew that the impact of social legislation would only be good in that year. And then it was, I keep saying, I understand the government that was at the time that it had to lower costs. I never say or deny to you that you did not want to protect that group that are the poorest and that you have placed the limit to universal rights at 46% of the average income. The fact is, whoever was in the process of drafting social legislation knew that the impact would be significantly greater than just looking at numbers. The fact is that Zuyf left great consequences in this area mainly for this medium layer. These are the facts. And it is necessary that we stop once and that we are so right to each other that the overlap between social legislation and Zujf simply cannot be separated and say, so much has been affected. We've done the calculations, and even if you look at the Institute's study, it's very clear that things are then loaded onto each other. When we have a debate when we adopt a resolution on family policy, all the questions you have mentioned about paying for kindergartens can be raised. All these things are then justified on the table to discuss them. And also the question of how universal family policy is that all have access to these rights, regardless of the social situation, but how much it relates to the material situation of families. The fact is that in Slovenia we went from universality to more this connection to the material position. And that's pluses and minuses. Plus it's definitely because, for example, we have a range of children's allowances, we have, if the person is without income, a family between 120 euros and 20 euros, now not because we don't have an eighth grade, but in theory we have this range, and because we have such a high range, we are effective at reducing the risk of poverty. The data of the European Union show that Slovenia, with the social transfers it makes, is among the more efficient countries, given the expenditure that we give to these rights, in the upper third after efficiency. Efficiency is measured by how much we reduce the risk of poverty. However, it can be debated that the costs for children are borne by each family. In Europe, we know families who have a children's allowance that all families receive, and perhaps the difference in height is only based on whether it is the first or the second child. We have also played with this thought in 2009 and we have calculated, looked at, many times forgotten as part of family policy is a very important element, this is an income policy where we have a dependent family member, I cannot say with certainty because I have not checked, but I will, but I remember talking when we looked at this data that about 800 million a year is a maintenance family member, so this is a relief within the income policy. That's when we watched if we put all the funds together, if I said so, if we could introduce a universal child supplement. But in fact, we would give 50 euros to all what it would mean for those with higher incomes to get, but the question of how essential this is for the development of these children, so it was decided at that time that it was better to get those living in a family with a lower material standard to get, for example, 120 euros, because it significantly contributes to their integration into society. But all these discussions will be welcome when we talk about the future resolution on family policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel, behind him mag. Leila Hercegovac and then the Government as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we support these good solutions, which are particularly good for the child. So far, this law has been considered comparable in Slovenia to many other countries, if not even better, especially as regards maternity leave, length and so on, in the protection of the child. So now it's just some improvements. For example, in Article 72, an exceptional amount of a child’s allowance shall be increased by 30% for a single parent’s family, as defined in paragraph 3, that a single parent’s family is a parent’s community with one or more children when the other parent has died and the child does not receive a survivor’s allowance after that, or that the other parent’s income is unknown or that the child after the other parent’s allowance is not actually received. It is said that he is poor because he does not have these incomes after another parent, so he is entitled to this increased value of the child supplement. Also in the second paragraph for preschool children who are not in kindergarten, it is almost too late to be entitled to 20% of the allowance, as a number of congregations also wanted to give an allowance to those children who stay at home and do not go to kindergarten if they had home care, so that kindergartens did not have to be extended, new construction was carried out and so on. So it is possible for at least those families who take care of the child’s protection at home to have some additional resources. In this debate, the main dilemma before today was the fatherly leave provided for by the Directive for 30 days. The most revolt was precisely about this obligation that the father must take advantage of these 30 days. We have also heard from other debaters that it is mainly about the fear of employers who are not yet prepared for men to be so absent from work. While your parents are just splitting up, or it is a matter of agreement, who will benefit from this parental leave. For the time being, a solution is proposed for these 30 days of paternity leave; 15 days immediately after giving birth, the father has the right to take advantage of the fact that he is at home when his mother and his newborn mother come home and are most vulnerable to help both his mother and his newborn. For the other 15 days, however, it was probably a Solomonic solution to join after one year. I don't know why it would not be appropriate to suggest, however, that, as a mother could give a father from 130 days of parental leave only 100 days so that the father could pass on 130 days only 115 days, but 15 days could be included in this year, it is 265 days, and perhaps even a better solution that could be realized now, not waiting for some better economic conditions. It is true that there must be some social acceptability for change. The law can cause a social change, but the social acceptance itself requires some changes. We've heard that men are under-involved in the household. If I look at my father, he never cooks, at least I cook occasionally. And my sons are already doing the dishes if I make it easy. However, the willingness of young people is different from that of the past. I think there's going to be some progress. He's not going to force himself. We can't force people, you have to take 30 days off, there's no other alternative. People have a resistance to that. It's better that it's a matter of agreement, but things will improve in the future. It is right that we have had a general debate today and that this law is going on on a regular basis because we have heard several new proposals, including contradictory ones. But that's right, there must be a debate, and we'll get better solutions as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u138	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! Today we have before us the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits, i.e. general discussion and first reading. We needed this law because it is about changes in social legislation, which are certainly positive. They improve the situation of families — all families. Here are the important solutions to the law, the reasons why we have the law, and the content of the law. As far as the solution is concerned, there are five points that are very important. Number 1 is the implementation of the European acquis into Slovenian legislation, number 2 is the right for social parents, number 3 is the exercise of rights from the Labour Relations Act, number 4 is the reduction of administrative burdens for employers and number 5 is the simplification of the work of social work centres. When we talk about the reasons, they are also different and are objective in nature. Under the second point, I would give equal opportunities and non-discrimination. Speaking of objective reasons, we are talking about economic conditions that have their own sub-points, and we would not talk about it. When we talk about equal opportunities and non-discrimination, as the Minister has said, there should be no inequality between men and women. But when we talk about this, I have to tell you that it's true that by the age of 14, a child is the most important mother. Why is the father’s parental protection so important, and why were the spirits and legislators and us Members and civil society so ruffled? The presence of a father in the family is very important, not because of the child, but because of the mother. Why? If the father is at home and has an empathetic relationship with the child, this relationship is passed on to the mother, her hormones work differently and all positive things are transmitted to the child through milk, food and other vibrations. That means if we want to be good to our children, we have to have fathers. Of course, their role is most important, among other things, and in the third year of age, but also in the first year of age, not directly because of the child, but because of those who care for children. The place of the father is therefore very important. Speaking of content, I would say and list here two points, the rights of parental protection insurance and the right to family benefits. Let me put it this way. Any legislation affecting families and parents and children is positive. The bill we have on the table is a good one and we will support the first reading. There's a chance some other thing might change. If we want a healthy child, if we want good parents, such laws really have to be arranged, as best we can, but you know, the laws themselves mean nothing. These laws must be summarized at all levels in reality, in a given situation, in a given time, and both parents must be aware of them. I hope that this bill will make a positive contribution because the changes are positive, they improve the situation of all families and that we will discuss some minorities in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I see that all the debaters who wanted to do this got the word. There's still a chance for the government to be a proponent. However, Mrs Minister has already called, but you have received the floor from all the debaters who have declared that you wanted to do so. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? He does. The word wants mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to respond to those eyewitnesses at the expense of my father's leave, if it's best if things are arranged and there's no need to impose a solution. I'm no different than the arrangement between family members. I can't even imagine that relationships within the family can be regulated. However, when family relationships are transferred to the level of concern of the country or the employer, these things must be arranged on a legal basis because the father cannot come to his employer and, to say the least, my wife and I have agreed to take 30 days of paternity leave. He must have a legal basis. But it is on him, and there is a free family decision on whether or not his father will take this paternal leave. There's a possibility. And in giving this opportunity to marriage, I don't see any coercion. However, I see attempts to stigmatise or restrict free decision-making if we are too impatient when we try aggressive measures to influence the decision to give birth to children. This must be an absolute free decision, in no way imposed or so extended, that it puts in the unequal position of another. It must not be discriminatory. However, the state, and for this there are all constitutional options, is taking measures that stimulate and facilitate the life of families and children in it. And I think that's the right decision. However, I would like to respond only to what colleague Alenka Jeraj mentioned in relation to school standards and norms, and then to colleague Tisel in relation to kindergartens. When the social crisis is, in fact, an economic crisis as it is now, it is very important to me that the norms and standards in the entire education chain do not fall because it only protected against the decline in the development potential of a country. Children coming from socially malnourished environments can thus at least have better circumstances in kindergarten and in school for development and for life than possible in a poor family. Unfortunately, I have to say in a poor family because poverty is such a phenomenon. And if you were watching Targeto yesterday, remember some of the contributions from this show. Here I think that all countries that are considered social states and that are betting on development recognise that investment in the education system is an investment in the future, and therefore we must not lower standards and standards here. The involvement of children is also a European orientation, and if we want to make so many references to Europe, if we want to achieve these standards, then we need to take another step towards greater inclusion of children in the first reference, because in the second, we have relatively well integrated them. I'm gonna finish this last thing because I don't know if I'm gonna be able to pull this thesis out of time. Language form of the law. We talked about this yesterday. Where the law refers to other laws, it has a reduced possibility of being linguistically transparent. Yesterday we talked, yes, of course, but if Zujf and the Law on the Exercise of Rights had to be included in everything to know what was involved. In this law, which is a new law, such slightly more complex articles are only 43rd, 49th and transitional provisions. These, however, are those who provide the basis for calculating the refund, the remuneration at the time of the break for breast-feeding, and this cannot be more easily written because things need to be specified. I hope that we will do our job well at second reading and adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday 27 November 2013 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archaeological Buildings and Archives. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, present to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Dr. Aleš Črnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, distinguished Members! The current Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives provides comprehensively for the protection of documentary and archival material in physical and electronic form. The law was adopted in 2006 and very much intervened in the practice of monitoring documentary and archival materials so far, and stressed the concern about the preservation of the material even before it was downloaded into the archives. After seven years of implementation of the provisions of the law and administrative practice, it has proved necessary to correct and update certain segments of the law, to remove certain administrative obstacles and to bring it into line with the provisions of certain applicable system laws. Since 2009, expert discussions and preparation of changes and corrections to those solutions in the law dealing with electronic archiving or digital material, access to archival material, self-protection of archival material and other minor additions to public-law obligations have been conducted. Since spring 2012, a broad discussion has led to the preparation of the current proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material. In the first round, the preparation was led by the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, which carried out a number of coordinations and discussions with stakeholders concerned in the preparation of the amendment. In the second round, the Ministry of Culture appointed a special expert commission in spring 2013 with representatives of regional archives, the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, the Archivan Society of Slovenia, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission continued its work on the proposal prepared by the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. In the first phase, it resubmitted an invitation to the archives, the Archivan Society of Slovenia, to representatives of ministries to submit comments or additions to the draft amendment of the law. The draft novel was then presented to the public on 29 May this year in the same form as it was prepared by the Archive in 2012, and a broad public debate was opened until 8 July of this year. On 4 June 2013, the proposal for a novel at its meeting was also addressed by the National Council for Culture. On 27 June this year, the Ministry of Culture and the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia also organized a round table to discuss the part of the novel which regulates electronic material and internal rules. A number of proposals were received through a wide range of expert and public hearings and subsequent cross-cutting coordination, but they did not intervene more extensively in the draft law and were examined and taken into account by the Ministry in large part. The changes in the novel relate mainly to the adoption and validation of internal archiving rules. Some administrative obstacles have been removed, for example, the law allows private law persons to use the instrument of internal archiving rules and does not oblige them to do so. It also introduces some rationalisation of procedures, verification of compliance of machinery with the requirements of the law. The law does not derogate from the existing principles of protection for public persons, nor does it abolish the validation of internal rules for each individual public legal person. The contents of the internal rules of all public legal persons will be pre-ordered by uniform technological requirements, which, by means of a proposal for a law, rise to the level of a sub-legislative act. It introduces a legal basis for the protection of the archival material of political parties and legal persons acting in the public interest and also regulates the possibility of protecting the archive material for public entities. The law also regulates the conditions of access to archival material, the deadlines for inaccessibility, exceptional access and the exceptional extension of the deadlines for the non-availability of archival material. According to the proposal, access to archival material will be regulated in the manner proposed by the Office of the Information Officer to bring the archival legislation into line with the legislation governing the protection of personal data. A broad professional and public debate has thus reached a compromise, the result of which is the present proposal of the law. This represents a crucial point between the needs of the archival profession and the requirements for removing obstacles on the other hand. On the other hand, between the requirements for widest accessibility on the one hand and the protection of personal data on the other. Therefore, honourable Members and honourable Members, I call on you to support the proposed law in anticipation of a useful and professional debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are adopting amendments to a law that we could say already has historical dimensions and around it there have been a lot of discussions in the past, both within the profession and by the policy. A proposal was drawn up in 2010 proposing changes in the field of standardised coverage and storage or archiving of electronic materials in digital form due to technological development and the development of archiving. There were no significant changes in that proposal to improve the system, as it was an important novelty to increase the centralisation of the state, i.e. the reorganisation of the public archiving service. In 2011, there was a proposal for amendments to regulate the legal basis for access to archival material containing sensitive data from the point of view of threats to the State's important interests. This law, as we all know, has been discussed in public and within this house. We have always opposed this law in the Slovenian People's Party, and our position was later confirmed by citizens and citizens who rejected the law at the referendum. Since the spring of last year, a new proposal for amendments to this law has been prepared in a broad debate, which we have before us today and at which it was stated at the beginning that the changes will not be intended for the centralisation of the Slovenian public archiving service. We will certainly have to support the changes in the law in the work when it comes to the protection of archival material in digital form, which is due to the progress of the profession and technological progress. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support these changes in the law and we really hope that these changes will end all the dilemmas around the archives and that they will never again be a tool for collecting political points and not a tool to increase the centralisation of the country. Above all, it seems important to us that the law lays down procedures for the destruction of documentary material during and after storage periods and that the archive material will be accessible to all interested parties who are entitled to it. In this way, we hope that changes related to the regulation of access to public archives in public archives, which contain classified information under every secret, political secrecy and personal data law, will come to life in practice. Transparency is not only a wish, but a established standard of modern and developed countries, so it needs to be followed not only in the area of classical access to public information, but also in the area of access to archival material. The amendment of the law also introduces two regimes of exceptional access to public archives in public archives at a time when this is not yet available to the public. There is also a welcome change in the content of parliamentary parties and associations or private legal persons acting in the public interest, as this will also have the characteristics of archival material as a result of the change. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment and the amendment of the law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the members of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives fully regulates the protection of documentary and archival material in physical and electronic form. It is a very complex matter, with direct implementation laid down by law and administrative practice showing that certain amendments or additions to certain articles are necessary. It is worth noting that the proposed amendment does not derogate from the principles of the applicable law, i.e. the principle of maintaining documentary material or the usefulness of its content, the principles of secrecy, integrity, the principle of accessibility, the principle of the safety of the cultural monument. At the same time, it further ensures respect for the principle of constitutionality and legality, the principle of proportionality and the principles of safeguarding the interests of national security or national sovereignty. The most important change compared to the regulation so far is the law on the regulation of the adoption and validation of internal rules. The law currently in force has committed itself to drawing up internal rules for both a public person and a person of private law, and it has unduly infringed on their rights. Amendments will allow private individuals to use the internal rules instrument and will not be obliged to do so. The next major amendment to the proposed law is the changes related to the regulation of access to public archival material, which contains classified information under each secret information law, tax secrecy and personal data. Secret information must be given consistent protection at a time when documents live, are used and serve the purpose for which they were created. After a relatively long period since the creation of the documents, the reasonable interest that these data are still protected from the public will cease to be reasonable, and confidentiality will normally lose its meaning in a material sense. The legal basis for the protection of the material of political parties and associations or private persons acting in the public interest is also introduced. Documentary material of these will have the property of archival material. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased to note that the bill is fully aligned with the professional, information officer, the Intelligence and Security Service and also with the Ombudsman. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary group, which has the floor, is the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia are holding back a novel that changes and complements the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. This is a sensitive area, especially in our country, where many past wounds have not yet been healed. Access to important documents during and after World War II is the basis for finding the truth about this period. We Christian Democrats are constantly working for this civilisation standard. Special attention has been given to the amendments to Articles 65 and 66, which regulate restrictions on public access to archival material or sensitive data. Some changes seem justified or explained. However, it is not explained why, in Article 65 of this article, the time limit for the non-availability of material containing personal data on health, sexual life, criminality, religious belief and the like is extended from 75 years of creation to 80 years. This could, however, relate to data on the extension of the average life expectancy and, on the other hand, this amendment prolongs the inaccessibility of certain data from World War II and the postwar period, which is unacceptable for us. We are convinced that the archival material of the former State Security Service must be made publicly available without restrictions. It is the material of a terrorist organisation, as defined by the Slovenian court, which operated in another country's time, and therefore has no ties with the Republic of Slovenia and should not protect the actions of the former totalitarian state. In Novi Slovenija we believe that all questions related to history must be clarified. By closing the archives, we're not defending the state, as the coalition says, but someone else. Otherwise, marriage also brings some good solutions. It burdens the State archive and the private with the fact that it will no longer be mandatory for them to monitor and validate internal rules. This obligation remains only for private individuals who are service providers for public legal persons, which is right as it is public money. There are also two options for exceptional access to public archive material at a time when this is not yet available to the public, either by approval of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by an administrative decision of the archival commission. Above all, this second option prevents every government from having a major political impact on whom to approve and whom not exceptional access to public archival material. Members of New Slovenia will continue to closely monitor the debate and actively participate in the consideration of this important law. But at first reading, we will not oppose him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you. The Italian and Hungarian national groups, Dr. Laszlo Göncz, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr State Secretary with his fellow Members, Members and Members. In opening, I should like to point out that we, too, support the proposal for a law in the first reading. It seems an important decision or position that the centralisation of the Slovenian public archival service, which has been said somewhere in the previous year, on the basis of an expert discussion will not be proposed and taken into account in this proposal for a law. We also agree that the proposed urgent changes in terms of the protection of archival material are in digital form. In this area, it is necessary to adapt to the challenges of today and it is clear that the electronic form of business has become a constant or permanent form of operation, in many ways the only form of action. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of those proposed provisions so that some data that are not formally classified may be declared inaccessible, which has, unfortunately, happened in the past. In addition to the exceptions defined in Article 61 of the current law, all the data which go back to the period of the former Yugoslavia is public, and this does not change, except for some exceptions which have been mentioned a little earlier. It is probably from this point of view that there will still be a need for discussion in the process of adopting this law. This is also true for the part of the bill where the new definition of personal data is subject to certain dilemmas as regards specific areas or aspects of confidentiality. This is also one of the areas where a thorough debate is likely to be needed. From the point of view of the national communities, it is important that archival material is determined or also identified because of the importance of cultural diversity, which is explicitly highlighted in the proposal. However, we consider that this may not be entirely satisfactory. Otherwise, the self-governing national communities and their public institutions or public institutions set up by them are persons of public law and therefore their tasks are laid down in principle in the proposed articles, which are being amended or in the applicable provisions, which, of course, remain, but in our opinion, would also indicate this area in a more consistent and transparent manner. In the case of national communities, this is an important segment of the social environment, which is also highlighted from a constitutional point of view in Slovenia, so we are thinking in the direction that the proposed Article 50 or any other amendment process should be considered. At least it should be determined that self-governing national communities themselves or in a otherwise agreed manner, of course, in professional cooperation with the competent archives, take care of the documentation and storage of their own materials. The same would apply to all other minorities living in the Republic of Slovenia. Whether it should at least indicate in which archive or dislocated unit the material of those communities and their public institutions should be stored, as this is not clear in all cases. It is also possible for national communities themselves to organise the protection of their own archival materials, as provided for in Article 62 of the bill and as has been the case so far, but this raises the issue of professional competences, spatial problems and also of the financial coverage of such activities. So there are some open questions from our point of view, so I expect that in the course of the debate we can also build on the proposal of the law from this point of view. And in the first reading, our support is given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and by Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! Since 2009, expert discussions have been under way and the preparation of amendments to the individual solutions of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives of 2006, which fully regulate the protection of documentary and archival material in physical and electronic form. So far, for various reasons, all efforts to regulate open issues have been unsuccessful. The proposal of the novel, which is before us today, has been prepared since spring 2012 in a broad professional and public debate. Many comments and suggestions from the professional and interested public are included in the present bill. The amendments seen by the proponents as most important concern the adoption and validation of internal rules, and the amendments also refer to the regulation of the possibility of self-protection of archival material for public entities, the arrangements for the conditions of access to archival material, deadline access, exceptional access, and the exceptional extension of the time limits for the availability of archival material, and the arrangements for the protection of the material of political parties and private legal persons acting in the public interest. When it comes to the assessment and validation of internal rules and accreditation, it is necessary to simplify procedures as the current law defines these procedures as mandatory for all, including the private sector. He was overburdened by this. Public entities will still be required to adopt internal rules, but they will not need to be placed in a state archive approval and will have to comply with the new regulation or with uniform technological requirements. The provisions in force concerning the availability of archival material, despite the other well-designed access regime, are found to be unnecessary in some cases. Thus, in some cases they allow for the wide disclosure of data obtained or generated in the implementation of public authorities' intelligence and counter-intelligence activities, as well as personal data. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated that interference with constitutional rights and freedoms is permissible only if the restriction of the right is followed by a constitutionally permissible objective and the resources are legally permissible, which is appropriate for the legitimacy test and, at the same time, the proportionality test has to stop. The current regulation is questionable from the point of view of the proportionality test. The full opening of archives is not the only option, but the pursued objective, which is primarily a historical study, can also be ensured by a slightly more selective definition of access to archives. This is also permitted by international instruments. Access to archive material is therefore regulated taking into account both the public interest and the constitutionally guaranteed human rights and security aspects. Uniform conditions of accessibility for all archive material and equal protection of sensitive personal data shall be introduced before and after the date of 17 May 1990. However, a key part of these amendments is a provision which makes it very clear that only individual specific documents containing such data, and not a broader unit of consolidated documents, such as a file or case, may not be available. For all researchers, journalists, and publicists, this is a very welcome solution, so that they will be able to get to know much of the material, but they will still have the possibility of a comprehensive view or excellent access to the material when they meet the conditions. Furthermore, the paper introduces changes in the own protection of archival material for public legal persons who can, on the basis of certain conditions, provide for their own protection of archival material. Such authorisation may only be granted on the basis of sound professional and technical reasons. Due to the significant historical value of the materials of political parties and societies acting in the public interest, it will be possible to re-engage their documentary material in order to ensure that this material is adequately secured in the form of storage with the creator himself or with the relevant archive. The proposed novel, which has undergone a number of treatments and coordinations, will, in our opinion, allow for a quality professional work of the public archival service, easier cooperation with archive materials creators and appropriate and effective processes of handling archival and documentary material. We are therefore of the view in the Group of Positive Slovenia that the proposal for a new law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Jožef Jerovšek have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear, distinguished, distinguished representatives of the government! We have before us a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and on archives, which has always received a lot of attention in the past, since it is linked to the system of values in society, and this issue will also in future co-create the state of the spirit in Slovenia. In the proposed amendment of the law, there is a considerable interference with the existing law. In the SDS Group, we are aware that some changes are needed by law, and we support it in those parts relating to experience in practice and the need for expertise. However, we rediscover the trend, in particular in the amended articles 65 and 66 of the Law, following the closure of the archive and access to the archives for that part of the archive material relating to human rights violations at the time of the previous State by the institutions and socio-political organisations of the current State. In the Group of Members, we agree with the amended text relating to the internal rules and, following a new one, allowing individuals of private law to use the instrument of internal rules and does not oblige them to do so, as laid down in the current law. It is also essential that changes relating to modern electronic records of documents and materials be made. With regard to the delivery of archive material to the archive, the amendment of the law brings some changes resulting from the conclusion of the profession that the material must be delivered 30 years after the creation and also brings some exceptional extensions under the agreement between the competent archive and the public legal person. As we have already mentioned, in the SDS Group, we believe that even this time the amendment of the law does not only reflect the need to amend those provisions where, in practice and in practice, shortcomings have been demonstrated, and they are identified by the archival profession, but it is evident that there is a significant repetition of the story, as developed in the case of the publicist and historian Igor Omarze a few years ago, when access to certain materials which explained human rights violations in the case of author and politician Edward Kocbek was blocked. As we know, such an amendment was abolished at the time by decisions of the Constitutional Court and by a later referendum rejecting such amendments to the law. If there were not sufficient professional and political reasons to close the archives at the time, we are confident in the SDS Group that they are not there now, even after a period of several years. These more controversial changes have apparently come into the text in the last period of law-making and not from the profession, but from the current policy. The law already in Article 65, paragraph 3, protects the availability of sensitive personal data in the material of social policy organisations and intelligence services for persons who did not bear public functions. However, the existing law does not provide for such exceptions for persons who have held public office. In addition to extending the accessibility deadlines, this exception is omitted in the new law and, in our opinion, it closes access to those archival materials that allow insight into human rights violations prior to the establishment of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990. This is clearly in the political interest of the current authority. This also seems to be related to the European Union's requirements with the Croatian "lex Perkovic" and such possible implications in the case of Slovenia. Although the archival material of the intelligence services or the political police of the former country, which systematically violated human rights, has been pretty consistently destroyed, the fear of exposing these violations in the new law remains constant. Apparently, the pillars of the current authorities are disrupting the problem and, by chance, from secondary archival sources, the disclosures obtained. Such as the disclosure of how the party and the then government, when democratic political parties were formed, sought to infiltrate the active members of the State Security Service in the lead of the new parties. Thus, it has recently been discovered that in the leadership of Tomšič's party, the predecessors of today's SDS, the State Security Service has infiltrated its co-worker under the cover of a heated advocate of democratic change from the Slovenian minority in Koroška. There must have been more than one such case. They were faced by all modern spring parties. This is what we are taught by the current role of activity and the position of individuals who at that time, under the cover of democratic orientation, plunged into the leadership or backdrop of new parties. The trials of these restrictions are, in an ad hoc manner, contained in the amended Article 65 of the Law, and neither for the purposes of historical and public science do they adequately address the exceptions provided for in Article 66 of the Law. The public person who has supplied the archive material thus allows a discretionary right to extend the availability deadlines. The disguised possibility of restricting access is also finely introduced through a new own-preservation institute, which we support. The user of the material in his own storage must sign the declaration concerning the restriction referred to in Articles 65 and 66 and thus access to certain materials may be permanently restricted. Otherwise, in the SDS, we agree that personal data are the material to be given high protection and tender treatment. We have also observed today in the consideration of the Public Information Access Act that this law excludes archival material in its own storage in article 4, which excludes it from information of a public nature. It is completely illogical that the issue of this law is regulated and limited by another law. Restrictions on access to archives are therefore quietly introduced. As a novelty, the law also provides for the storage of archival material by political parties who have the status of private archive material under this law. In the SDS Group, we find that this law is also one of those who sometimes misuse very complicated terminology and also does not tend to be easily understood, which is an obstacle for users, because it allows different interpretations. As we have repeatedly stressed in our Group, opening or closing archives is an essential issue of historical truth, without which we have no present. As mentioned earlier, the novelty of the law contains pluses and minuses. If there is a good purpose for the applicant, it can also be regulated in the next procedure by means of a profession. Therefore, at this stage of the adoption of the law, Members of the SDS will not be definitively defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Social Democrats and the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Documentary and archival material is invaluable to the preservation of historical facts and represents an important heritage of each country. However, life in the digital age offers a number of challenges in this area, but also some traps. Thus, the risk of material being lost is significantly greater for material in electronic form than for that in writing. The possibilities for intervention are also greater than those for written material. If the traceability of the document is not clear, there may be reasonable doubts as to the authenticity of the material. Normative changes in the handling of documentary and archival material should therefore, in the view of the Group of Social Democrats, strengthen the mechanisms that will ensure the highest possible degree of credibility of documents produced in the digital environment. It is further necessary to ensure uniformity of standards that will allow documents to be available and readable in future programming environments. The draft law before us is partly following those starting points, but it is nevertheless worth noting some of the provisions of the proposal which, in the view of the Group of Social Democrats in the wake of the circumstances, may lead to shortcomings in the handling of documentary and archival material. There is a fear that because of debirocratisation or often called removal of administrative barriers, the strength of the protection of material in the digital environment is weakening. This is highlighted by part of the professional public, which was also observed by the National Council for Culture at the time of its consideration of the draft bill when it called on the Ministry of Culture to work towards the greatest possible consensus of the professional public on e-construction solutions and internal rules. Therefore, we want the applicant to re-examine the individual solutions of these two important areas for consideration in the home working body. In the Group of Social Democrats, we draw particular attention to provisions that reduce the role of the Republic of Slovenia's Archives and loosen the provisions on internal rules. The archive will no longer have the authority to confirm internal rules or public law. This will lose the opportunity to ensure professional verification of whether the internal rules are in accordance with the applicable legislation, whether electronic documents will have legal value when captured and, most importantly, whether they can be loaded into a form that will allow permanent storage. There is a serious fear that the material will be handed over to the archive in unreadable formats. In order to avoid this, we propose that the validation of the internal rules of public law remain the competence of the archive or that the sub-legislative area be regulated in a clear way. In the Group of Social Democrats, we hope that this time the debate on archives will go beyond the usual over-politicisation of the availability and accessibility of material created during the period of the former state. The applicant shall introduce into the law the protection of the most sensitive personal data in the materials of that period, and it shall be noted that the personal data of the perpetrators of political offences or offences shall be made available without restriction. In view of the other provisions that extend access to archival material and make it possible to have exceptional access to classified and personal data, even though the deadlines for non-accessibility have not yet expired, we propose that the proposal of the members of the archival commission be defined in law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. The current way allows each government to draw up its own composition, which is not appropriate in view of the broad competences of this Commission with regard to the decision on the availability of individual materials. In our opinion, it would make sense to establish a composition of a commission to which members, experts would propose institutions that enjoy broad confidence, such as the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the SAZU and so on. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! As already stated in the introduction on the website of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, the task of the archive is to collect, protect, edit, record and facilitate the use of the national archival cultural heritage of the Republic of Slovenia. The archive shall carry out professional tasks relating to public archival and documentary material arising from the work of the State authorities and other public legal persons established by the State and operating for the whole country. The archive also protects private archive material and film archive material for the whole country, keeps a collection record of public archive material in the country, records of material abroad relating to Slovenia and Slovenia and records of public symbols, coats of arms, flags, stamps, stamps, stamps, stamps, stamps at the country level. Why is that important? Because this introductory presentation already clearly points to the cultural, professional and everyday role played by the archives of Slovenia. That is why the adoption of legislation in this area is of great importance. It is very sensitive, it opens up a lot of questions and divisions, but at the same time it is not possible to avoid this if we want to pursue the goals of releasing human resources, rationalising some of the procedures so far, reducing costs, correcting uncertainties and resolving problems in the implementation of the law. The large amendment introduced by the amendment to the law relates to the arrangements for the adoption and validation of internal rules. The amended text makes it possible for individuals of private law to use an instrument of internal rules and does not oblige them to do so. It also introduces changes related to the regulation of access to public archival material in public archives, which contains classified information under every law on classified information, tax secrecy and personal data. Two regimes of exceptional access to public archives and public archives are introduced at a time when this is not yet available to the public. In the Civil Gazette, we would also like the amendment to the law to make greater progress in terms of better organisation and cooperation between the Slovenian cinematography and the archive, which in our opinion should be sought in the direction of delegating the powers of the film archive to the archival work of the Slovenian Cinematheque, since in practice the activities of one and the other public institutions are duplicating. However, the proposal for a law brings about the rationalisation of procedures and the removal of administrative barriers, which is one of the commitments under the National Gazette programme. The proposal also provides for the regulation of differences applicable to public and private persons, introduces a legal basis for the protection of the archival material of political parties and regulates the conditions of access to archival material. That is why we will support in the Parliamentary Group the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Because of some changes in the order of the debaters, I will read some of the announced debaters. On the other hand, the Government's proposal is to take the floor. The word is given by Mrs. Maria Plevčak, followed by Dr. László Göncz, then Dr. Vinko Gorenak, forward Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Porotat. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor. She's not here. So Dr. László Göncz has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I will also be very brief because I have highlighted most of what I thought I would point out in the opening position. Above all, I would like to try to agree, as we have done so many times, on the content that is important from the point of view of the national communities in the next period to be dealt with on the part of the home labour body. I am confident that we will find relatively fast common nouns in this area. However, as regards the general problem, once again, let me point out that I see an important substantive upgrade in the proposed text and, despite some of the dilemmas that exist, which have also been exposed, I think that the text is certainly appropriate for obtaining first reading support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. It may seem that we are dealing with a law that has no particular meaning but that we are living in certain specific circumstances, in a country that has not regulated this area in the past, so this law is still very important. Let me remind you that, I will not talk about all those articles that are correct, that are fine, that go along with time, digitisation and so on, which is perfectly normal, but as far as I am concerned, will be a key issue of paragraphs 65 and 66. It's about those questions that we've dealt with a lot in the past. Those Members who did not have you in the previous term may not know whether you were following or not, so let me go back a little bit. The first marriage, a slightly more serious marriage, was adopted in 1999, if I am not mistaken. This law is, at least as regards the archival material of former sociopolitical organizations, the police, the Owls, the former State Security Service, and so on, and so on, he said that this material is going to the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia. It means that all these organizations, the Union of Communists, the ZZDL, should not know who existed before 1990, all of this material should be delivered to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know how social political organisations, the Union of Communists, and so on, I've never dealt with it, but I've been doing a lot of work on what happened to the archives of the former State Security Service, which, after 1990, took off the Ministry of the Interior on its own. As I have already pointed out, at the time it was imposed by law, the laws in this country should apply that all archives created before 1990 should be handed over to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia before the first session of the newly elected First Democratic Assembly. Therefore, they should remain secret, I stress, still secret. But look, it didn't actually happen. For ten years the law has not been respected in this country, I stress that the law has not been respected for ten years. When we were in Sova in 2007, other controls were under way by Dr. Sturm as minister, I was a member of that government group, we, look at the fraction, found these things there. Instead of being transferred to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, Owl’s fine case was put under a key and “nothing”, it would be said, or “no one’s anything” to translate that there will be no correction. At that time, we wondered what had actually happened, why Owl kept these archives with her. The answer is now more than unclear, in order to protect the interests of the successors of those who were in power until 1990 or their co-thinkers. We haven't found another answer. At that time, the amendment of the law was adopted, which said that Owl must immediately hand over these documents so that these documents would become public and accessible to all people. Except for those exceptions that were set out there. But what happened? That some things went to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, then there was a practical excuse which was called the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia has no suitable premises, so the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia will take over. And he took over. But physically, it'll just be on Owl. And there's just so much left to say about it at home. Then the former government, the government of Borut Pahor, wanted to change this law. Change back to keep things out of the public's reach again. It was happening in the middle and there were many, many such, I'll say, half-reasoned reasons why it was supposed to be. Other living people abroad, those who helped and so on and so forth. There were certain arguments, if someone was before 1990, I'll give them that, I'll say, an imaginary case that no one would think that I'm disclosing any information. If, for example, before 1990, a citizen of Italy made an important contribution at the time of the conclusion of the isolation agreements by means of intelligence to the fact that the former State had concluded, say, more favourable agreements on the subject, access to such data could harm that person if he lived in Italy today. These were such reasoned reasons, but it was also possible to resolve very clearly the problems in another way that we proposed in the SDS, simply to say that those documents, which were in favour of the then SFRJ and are not contrary to the current regulations of the Republic of Slovenia, remain secret, could be protected by such individuals. But it was other things, it was a shielding of, say, Veliovac, where we know exactly that it was pure state terrorism. Today, we know that it was also a matter of protecting many other data. Mr Omerza clearly writes how this service of state security simply kidnapped people abroad, how it drove them to Slovenia, say that book of 88 steps talking about Kotnikov's 8 in Ljubljana, when they kept a man locked up for a few months, and then whatever happened. The latest testimonies, as well as the latest complaints written by Roman Leljak, are based on some documents that are today in the Republic of Slovenia Archive. Why am I saying this? Because I still don't trust or I'm not sure, Mr Secretary of State, that you won't close it with law. If the experts I will listen to, as well as to you, convince me that the archive of the Republic of Slovenia in that part of the State Security Service is formerly not provided for in this area, then I think you may even have the support of our client. But if this text, which is a little complicatedly written, we know how to hide something sometimes, and maybe I haven't discovered it yet, but if this law overtakes people's will, because it's a referendum, we've had a referendum, as you know, and people have decided that this has to be publicly available, then I have to say that I will and personally and as a client we'll do everything we can to ensure that something like this doesn't happen. If there is no danger in this marriage, then I think you can sleep in peace because it would be wrong to close those archives that are open by law today. We are one of the few countries, and we need to know this very clearly, and I will not now talk about what kind of illustration, because blood will throw away at someone in the hall, but it must be said that we are one of the few countries or perhaps even the only ones who have committed such crimes, and the evidence of such crimes is that in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, we have not punished or brought individuals who have done so before a court. But it's time. With the archive closed, it would be a danger that this doesn't happen. That's what I'm going to say in this general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, behind her mag. Ivan Vogrin, then prepare Mr Mirko Brulc, then Mrs Sonja Ramšak. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to say a few important things about this amendment of the law, which I think is very important to note that the law or amendment of this law has been in preparation for a longer period of time, since 2009, that a broad public debate was opened by 8 July this year, in which all the professional and interested public could be involved, and that the legislator also included in the text comments arising from or adopted from these discussions. It would also be important to note that the amendment is in line with the proposals submitted by the Office of the Information Commissioner. It is also important that the proposaler pursued the objectives that I would like briefly to point out here when amending the law. These objectives were as follows. To release personnel resources in the Republic of Slovenia Archives, which were involved in the process of assessing the internal rules of private law. To streamline the procedures so far for checking the conformity of equipment and services with this law. To this end, the legislator sought to reduce the costs for all involved in the process. This applies to all parties appearing in this procedure. To prepare or remedy uncertainties and to address all problems in the implementation of the law. To complement the current arrangements for the protection of documentary archive material in digital format in accordance with technological development. To supplement the current arrangements for access and exclusive access to archive material. I will vote in favour of the conclusion that this amendment is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor to prepare Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished guests! I am not burdened with the past, but when a person watches and looks at these debates, he wonders what we have done in the past in this country and in the past, which we come from, we have done so terrible that everything has to be secret. That's an interesting question. If I refer to the fact that the information officer agrees, this does not mean that the law is good. I'm not saying the opposite. We have full government authorities that agree or disagree. Now, for the second time, I'm going to quote or tell a story. We have information on those companies operating with the state on the Supervisory Board. However, the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, also as a State authority and guardian of certain laws, answers me in an official letter that natural persons who have contracts with public authorities are not subject to this control and are, of course, hidden from the public. I personally know a few ten such persons who receive hundreds of thousands of euros under law-writing contracts. Such laws as each new government changes quickly. If we really did work and wanted to face the past, we would admit what we did wrong, open up archives, and admit past mistakes and start over. Sooner or later this will happen, for economic legitimacy and its past cannot be forgotten, sooner or later. And he's just speeding us up with the situation he's in. Although I think there is still time to make this law such that it will be adopted by a two-thirds majority. Only such a marriage, I think, would be a good marriage. Too many laws are adopted here, but who, or previous position or current or previous, 20-year history is about the same. All hands on deck, all hands on deck. When we reach a level of awareness that we are all interdependent in this country and that it is not good for us to do things because it is harmful in the long term, and Parliament will realise that good legislation will be the one that will be adopted by a two-thirds majority, we will be better Slovenia at the beginning. That's what you are, I think we all want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, followed by Mr Jerič, Mr Möderndorfer and Mrs Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Caring for the archives of each country is an important activity, even so that younger generations can understand how a country has grown, what has happened. But because of all of this, these materials are also such that no one can follow them. We have some experience, as has already been said today, glues, photocopies and so on, trying to discredit some people. For this to happen, there must be some order in these archives. It is therefore also necessary to amend this law. Also because this novelty, digitisation really brings, as has already been said today, an even easier way of creating data and so on. I'm from the previous regime, and I understand some things may be different than any young man here. But this previous regime also includes those who have already discussed today. Let me just say one case. I recently read a record of political coordination in Nova Gorica. There is nothing that this nation should not know, but they have debated that in those ancient days in Yugoslavia a commercial company could import one van of wristwatches, it says, and they earned for a year and it was a profit. However, the one who weighed sugar and had much to do to sell 20 pounds [20 kg] of sugar worked for a year. It was then a political conviction that it was wrong to import hours and live in an easy way. Today it's ridiculous, it's incomprehensible, but that's what happened. Otherwise, it's not a matter that should be hidden or anything. But if I could now list some of the names of the people who were sitting in this political coordination, they would say, because they were stupid. But then there were times like this, and you have to accept them, but with understanding. And we today's patterns of life, behavior, development, and everything we carry into the year, not the case, 1945 or 1950, and we wonder how it's possible that something back then was the way it was. I hope that we will adopt these amendments and amendments to the law, with possible corrections, that the material will be protected, that it will be useful for those who are professionally involved in this matter, that it will indeed remain for the prospectors indefinitely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Brultz. Mr. Aljoša Jerič has the floor. Get Mrs. Jeraj ready for her. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I too will touch on the amendment of Articles 65 and 66, this is about the availability of archival materials and conditions. I would like to discuss in a little more detail how the proposed amendment to these two articles expands the availability of materials and also introduces uniform conditions of accessibility for all archival materials, i.e. independent of the creators who have created the material. The general availability of archival material until 17 May 1990, it is said that this is the day when the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was established, applied only to some creators, and is now expanding this accessibility to other public legal persons. It mentions that the creator of the government’s interests cannot demand the inaccessibility of the public archival material delivered to the archive, provided that this has occurred before the date of the assembly’s establishment. However, such material will still not be available only in those parts of the material containing sensitive personal data, the right protection is still available. It is increasing accessibility, but it still preserves the protection I agree with. As regards the definition of sensitive personal data, the novel also seeks to simplify this area of protection of sensitive personal data, as it introduces the same protection regime regardless of the creator and how such data are obtained. Also, on a proposal from the Information Officer Office, the protection of data from the narrowest sphere of privacy is extended to public function holders. In fact, a set of sensitive personal data is drawn up that make the material inaccessible. The selection removes what has now been the cause of the lack of access, the political belief of individuals, that is, the determination that in the past, due to certain conditions, there has been an unavailability of material which is an important witness to the functioning of individuals at the time of the former single-party system. In order to access such material, researchers had to apply for the decision of the archival commission under Article 66, paragraph 3, of the current law for which the amendment is proposed. This allows for easier access to some sets of materials that are important for the study of past history. In view of the proposal, I think it is also in the age of various Snows and WikiLeaks, that in some way with all the necessary protections we also modernise and allow the processing of this data to take place without manipulation and abuse but by the profession. At first reading, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerich. The word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, for her mag. Majda Potrate and then Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. In these days, we read that we have problems in the legal system, based on a resolution written by the European People's Party, which has looked at and talked to people. This is probably because we have not opened the archives, as envisaged or travelled to this resolution 1096, where it was written: "The Assembly welcomes the opening of the archives of the secret public services in some former communist totalitarian countries. It recommends that all affected countries allow affected persons to review the files led by former secret services if they wish." Because some things have not been handled by historians, we probably have problems today, and we do not know some things properly as part of our history, which has also been very cruel to some. Fortunately, things are changing, and there are more and more researchers who are going into the archive and trying to get data and on the basis of these, to check and describe what was going on. Igor Omerza was already mentioned, including a new indictment that is now being filed in neighbouring Austria. We were monitoring the problems Igor Omerza had at the time, and the law should be such as to allow the treatment of historians who would allow them to work. Therefore, we are mainly skeptical or concerned about paragraphs 65 and 66, so that we will not again at some point monitor the difficulties that those who will want to access archives or, above all, that part of the archive material that relates to the previous period and, above all, to human rights violations at the time of the previous State by both the institutions and the sociopolitical organizations of that country. The law already in Article 65, paragraph 3, protects the availability of sensitive personal data in the material of social policy organisations and intelligence services for persons who did not bear public functions. The existing law does not provide for exemptions for persons who have held public office. In addition to extending the accessibility deadlines, this exception is omitted in the new law and, in our opinion, is thus blocking access to those archival materials that allow insight into human rights violations. Therefore, we will continue to make amendments to the above articles and try to improve the law. However, some things are regulated that are right to settle, and those good solutions will be supported. If in the final form the law is such that we assess that it is appropriate, we will support it, but not because, as I said, we estimate that as much material as possible must be as easily accessible. We have an anti-birocratic system in the country and a whole bunch of things to remove administrative obstacles, and there are still obstacles. It is necessary to be careful and always weighed between what personal data might be problematic if published, but also some criminal proceedings cannot be opened if some information is not transmitted if any folders are not opened. We support all such research solutions because we are quite behind in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, followed by Mr Jerovšek and then by Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There are many things that we should look back from the unconscious and from memory when we talk about this law, because a very interesting observation could be mentioned again, such as the way in which unauthorized persons entered the archives of the Owl. And the problem with handling the archives is that it's not necessary to just take something out of the archives, something can be brought into the archives. If some customs are still bound to disregard the authenticity of documents, such concern is even stronger. When I recall past experience with the Law on the Protection of Archives and Other Materials, I cannot help but say that if we mention the referendum and the referendum and the referendum of expressed human will, however, it is necessary to say that the referendum has rejected the law as a whole and it is difficult to refer to which provision of the law rejected is the one which is in such and no other form in this law that the referendum will then be acceptable. That's hard to prove, I'd just say. However, if we do not reach an agreement on the past, there is a fact that is long enough known and we often cannot unify ourselves about the future. But I would like to point out something about how a rational debate cancels when, with some apriorism, we enter into a debate that, immediately in some provision, there is some intention of the current political authority. But it would be good for those who think about it to look at the draft law, where the introductory part also compares how stored material and its accessibility are handled in some European countries. Why am I bringing this up? Because it is very nice to say that all archival material should be available, the archives must be absolutely open, but in my opinion there are some reservations that should protect, so to speak, third parties. This is information about those persons who are not in the archive as carriers of an activity, and I will not name it, but who are in the archives and documents either as relatives or otherwise as third parties of course. Full openness means that everything is also available on these persons. But I think these people need to be protected. If you look at the comparative material, you will see that in other countries these people are generally protected. This is the only way the Czech Republic has in this review – I now refer to the review offered, not all members of the European Union – all open. Some even make sure that the anonymised material is related to these persons, some only in electronic form, and some even in the original document. If I remember correctly, that's the way it is in Slovakia. Yeah, right, sensitive personal data, these sensitive personal information about privacy can't even be found in the source files. And you see, it seems important to me here that we should shake off politicisation and ideology and with the right measure of sensitivity to the privacy of people to act and take care of some civil standards that exist in the good part of European countries, and even those are countries that I believe are, at least, the first person of unity, that their past experience is worse than the past experience of our country. Whether the second hearing will now bring such solutions that for a large majority they will be acceptable, I hope that we can agree on what we can do, and that we will not then go in the direction that Mr Vogrin was talking about, although he wanted us to adopt laws with full consent. We will then accept a little of this in the National Assembly if there is a need for full legal consent. Yesterday's experience is such that, for the most part, all parliamentary groups have claimed that the law on amendments and additions to the law on the exercise of rights from public funds is a good law, and if you look at the outcome of the vote, we have not all supported this law. So I hope that we will allow this law to be passed in a second debate, because I think the profession has warned that some things need to be settled. Which group of individuals will have access to the archives, I think even in the past, those who are able to do their research work, and not to say because it was not a license, but with this research interest appeared, had the opportunity to access, not absolutely, but in the majority work. However, I think it is also very important that things that are very important for the history of our nation and also our countries are not accessible in our archives, but are still stored in archives outside Slovenia. I think that the central efforts should be directed towards making as much of what is not available to us here at home as possible, even in the domestic archives, or at least in such a way as to be accessible to them. Here are also important statements from well-known historians who are researching and complementing history in foreign archives. A lot of things are changing, not because it would be ideologically conditional, but because we have access to archives that were not before. These are archives in Britain or archives in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you, too. At the end of all the applicants, the proposaler of the Government also has the floor. On her behalf, Dr. Aleš Črnič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, has the floor. Here you go, Dr. Black. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, we look forward to such a high level of support for our bill. Finally, it may be good to reiterate that the changes are also 65th and 66th. The articles on which we have discussed a lot, with the exception of the nomotechnical corrections in this proposal, are equally defined as in the draft prepared in the dialogue between the archival section and the Office of the Information Commissioner in 2012. It is a compromise that, in our opinion, has caught a delicate balance, a very thin line between the need for very broad access to materials and, on the other hand, the need to protect personal data, as prescribed by sectoral legislation. These changes, which we are proposing, do not close any categories of data, but only specify some groups of sensitive personal data. These groups of sensitive personal data can also be accessed through the Institute of Exceptional Access in the Public Interest. As regards the fear of ending the validation of internal rules for public-law persons, let me explain or add that the current recommendations of the single technological requirements with the novel increase to the level of the sub-legislative act. This regulates the requirements for public legal persons at the level of legislation, of course assuming that public legal persons have to comply with the rules. As far as your own storage is concerned, your own storage is not a novelty. Our own storage is determined by the law already in force, our proposal for our own storage only specifies more precisely, especially the conditions for it, it is also very clear that the material in its own storage is given the same access as the other archive material. That is why amendments to the Act on Access to Public Information have also taken place. Access to archival material is fully regulated by this Act, the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you, too. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask whether anyone else may wish to be discussed under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a decision is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday 27 November 2013 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a resolution on the National Programme for Culture. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Aleš Črnič, State Secretary, Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today you have before you a central document of cultural policy development planning, which, for such or other reasons, has been late for the second year. Unfortunately, the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, who apologizes today for his urgent duties abroad, cannot be with us, he made a promise, in March, at his presentation hearing before you in the role of candidate for minister, to submit a national programme for culture to the public debate within two months of the start of the mandate, in addition to certain other urgent changes. One of them was just discussed at the previous point. With a team at the Ministry, we held on to this timeline, although it seemed almost impossible at times, even in view of the fact that a previously abolished cultural resource had to be reinstated in parallel. But in these extremely strict time constraints that we have faced, we have not sacrificed an essential element of normative activity, this is a public debate. We have already said that the public debate was extremely substantive, that the draft national programme for culture had upset the cultural public, upset in the positive sense that we had met several times on different panels, talked lively about open issues, opportunities, and that we had finally made all the proposals available on the Ministry's websites and identified ourselves. This gesture was recognised as a welcome innovation in the creation of legal regulations mainly by civil society. The National Council for Culture and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also positively identified it. Our summer work then continued in the autumn. Now this slow but persistently loses the last leaves. And although we have changed about one third of that draft document, which is before you today, the national cultural programme, during this change of seasons, it has not lost its colours. He also got better, apparently better, for he could be spoken of and contributed to the content of the text by those to whom he was actually most directed. The national programme for culture is therefore delayed, but still at the right time, irrespective of the limitations of the public financial framework. We are certainly not hiding our ambitions not only to redo the model of governance and funding in culture, but to put culture in the first kind of response to the economic and social crisis. We want to change a rather persistently stable position, we could call it a prejudication that culture can contribute the most in these difficult times by simply costing as little as possible. In this respect, an important signal can come from this Chamber of Democracy today that people's representatives will not allow themselves to become hostages of a limited mental framework as a society, and in their efforts to dig themselves out of the clutches of the economic crisis, if I may borrow a native saying, along with water, they will throw the child away. Culture should be taken seriously. If we see in it only the cost and not the investment in ourselves, in our future, then as a society we have already run. Then we gave up on what makes life meaningful, blowing up all the creative energy that goes through it. The national programme for culture takes serious account of it when it connects it with other social systems and sub-systems, when it regulates the relationship with education and education, when it builds bridges to the economy and to young people, when it speaks of clear numbers in the right places and when, last but not least, it really mentions and considers the labour market in culture as its first kind. The resolution on the national programme for culture 2014-2017 also represents a qualitative shift from past practices, by setting very clearly its starting points and, above all, its objectives. Thus, it puts in your hands the representatives of the people an extremely important tool for monitoring and critical consideration of its implementation, which the Government is obliged to report to you every year. I therefore urge you, honourable Members and Members, to support the motion for a resolution. But for us, when the last of your votes is listed here on Wednesday, of course, the real work is just beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you, too. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, representative and representatives of the Ministry of Culture. I have a duty to present the report to the motion for a resolution. The report is too long to read it completely in front of you in five minutes, so I decided to shorten it. But I will do all the abbreviations according to the text written down. At its 5th meeting, on 30 October, the Committee on Culture considered the draft resolution on the national programme for culture 2014-2017. But she did mediate him into the government's treatment. The Legislative and Legal Service reviewed the motion for a resolution and made comments on the six chapters. The resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport. In his opinion at the meeting, he was presented by the state councillor Dr. Radovan Stanislav Pejovnik. The motion for a resolution supported and also made some concrete comments. The resolution also included the additions of four coalition parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the national communities within the deadline of business. The amendments were then amended. Dr. Uroš Grilc, representative of the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture Dr. Sašo Gazdić, President of the National Council for Culture Miran Zupanić, member of the same body Miran Mohor, President of the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia mag. Jože Osterman, representative of the Council of State, which I have already mentioned, and representative of the Legal and Legal Service. In the introduction, the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, said that the adoption of the resolution lays down a law on the realization of public interest in culture. He explained that the National Programme for Culture will define the role of culture in the development of Slovenia and its public interest, the areas of providing cultural goods as public goods, plan investment in cultural infrastructure and set objectives, priorities and appropriate indicators to measure their achievement. He also explained that the motion for a resolution brings development goals and measures to encourage the country's development potentials in various areas and culture to establish as one of the key factors for the development of an individual and society. He also listed the main objectives. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew up a written opinion and said that we are deleting the main comments by means of the amendments tabled. However, it also committed itself to the final edition to be carried out by the Legal and Legislative Service. In the debate, we welcomed the adoption of the resolution by the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members, because it is considered by all to be a good basis for drawing up implementation plans, following objectives such as excellence, accessibility and diversity. This third resolution in Slovenia alone, which is adopted with a two-year delay and was defined as a new model of cultural policy in June this year, has experienced, as has been said, confirmation by the discussers. However, some questions were also raised and some concerns were raised, both regarding the lack of domestic patriotism, the future increase in the number of self-employed people, the excessive favourisation of RTV Slovenia compared with programmes of particular importance, education for cultural education, the lack of attention for disabled persons and the reduction of funds for immovable cultural heritage. All I can find is that the Minister replied to the comments — not all of them — so we came to a debate and a vote on individual chapters of the resolution. The 26 amendments of the coalition and the 2 amendments of the national communities are the final number of amendments adopted. 13 amendments were rejected. The Committee then voted on the whole resolution and on another amendment. In the light of the amendments that have been adopted, the motion for a resolution which has now been completed before you, the amendments have also been tabled, and I hope that we will have a debate on this today, and that on Wednesday we will also finalise our opinion on the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respected and respected! Allow me to take the floor in this report to borrow the words of the distinguished Minister of Culture of Uroš Grilc, who said in a recent interview, quote: "Cultural literacy is the path of emancipation and autonomy of an individual who is capable of critical judgements and perceptions of the diversity of aesthetics, and thus how to form a critical citizen. We must not forget that the cultural capital of the individual who receives it in school, in the family and in the environment, is essential for the formation of his cultural literacy." End of quote. The National Programme for Culture is a strategic document of cultural policy development planning and identifies objectives and priorities in all fields of art and culture. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the fact that at the Ministry of Culture, when preparing the programme, they came from the financial situation of the country and thus prepared a financially sustainable document. Despite this fiscal framework, the Ministry was able to draw up a proposal following all three fundamental principles of cultural policy: excellence, diversity and accessibility. The programme contains a clear vision that Slovenian culture needs a comprehensive renovation and that no correction of the current model can be sufficient, as this inevitably leads to the drying up of the creative charge of Slovenian culture as a whole. The document therefore seeks to play a key role in cultural policy with the objectives set out and the measures identified to achieve these objectives in order to promote creativity. In the DeSUS Group, we would like to point out that the proposed national programme has for the first time a comprehensive chapter on the labour market in culture, since, given the situation, they have set a very ambitious objective of increasing the number of employees in cultural professions by 2017, assuming that the number of employees in the public sector in culture is reduced. You have set yourself an extremely difficult task, not only in terms of the state and the policy of our country regarding employment in public administration, but in the DeSUS Group we believe that it is not only the words on paper, but the real effort to ensure that the area of employment in culture is regulated. As stated in the programme, care must be taken to improve the working conditions of self-employed people in culture, to increase the mobility of young self-employed people and to reduce the number of unemployed persons, and to integrate self-employed persons into projects and programmes of public institutions and the private sector. Special attention should also be paid to older creators, as because of the unfair work and low fees in the cultural field, self-employed people in the field of culture often face a difficult social situation at the age of retirement. Among the areas defined in the document, I would also like to highlight the area of the book, which includes the implementation of the presentation of Slovenia as central guests on the international book market in Frankfurt. Perhaps the time is not the most appropriate, but due to the smallness of the Slovenian book market it is necessary to find a way for a longer-term presence of Slovenian books and authors in this environment mainly in a very important German and English market. In the parliamentary group, we will support the motions for a resolution together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I think we have exactly twelve of us, which is right, Mr. Secretary of State Dr. Aleš Črnič and his associates! The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia are pleased that a broad public debate has taken place on the proposed resolution. We are also actively participating in it ourselves and have made quite a few comments, which unfortunately were not taken into account at the Committee's meeting, so there is so much more hope that they will be present at the State Assembly. We also reviewed the program in the light of the relationship with Slovenians in place and around the world, for which culture is a bearer of national consciousness and belonging to Slovenia and is a bonded tissue with its motherland. In the presentation of my position, I will point out some of our comments. In our view, culture plays an important, invaluable role in raising young people to maintain national and domestic consciousness. This aspect of culture is certainly lacking in the resolution. The number of self-employed people in culture, especially young people, is expected to increase. We also support and encourage Christian Democrats for creativity, self-employment and entrepreneurship, but we know that culture is not really one that brings much money and good jobs. We wonder what will be the material situation of these self-employed people in culture and how much assistance they will need to survive. As many others as Members of New Slovenia, we note that the resolution does not give sufficient attention to regional media, with a status of special importance. In this context, if you remember, we have tabled amendments to the budget documents for 2014 and 2015 and we are pleased that the government has listened to at least half the amount for our amendment for 2015. Too favoured is Radiotelevision Slovenia, which is an extremely important national medium, but cannot sufficiently record the lives of local communities and preserve them in the image and word of future generations. In our view, the motion for a resolution is under-exposed for cultural education. I would also like to point out that access to culture for people with special needs is extremely important, and here there is little emphasis in this document. Cultural societies, the hotspots of the cultural culture, are an extremely important institution of cultural life and we therefore advocate giving cultural creation an appropriate weight within the cultural activities. This is particularly true in rural areas where access to more important cultural institutions is slightly more difficult. We also note the shortcomings of the text in the field of the protection of immovable cultural heritage. From year to year, funds for maintaining it are constantly decreasing. As a result, an increasing number of demolitions or destructions of immovable cultural heritage facilities have resulted in poor maintenance due to the lack of funds. However, inspectorates often do not adequately intervene and do not carry out their tasks. Indicators such as the number of declarations or entries in the register, the marking of monuments and the like in practice do not mean anything, since this does not affect the state of the monuments or their fate in any way. It is only bureaucratic procedures that take a lot of time and money, but do not produce concrete results. In Novi Slovenije we tabled amendments according to our observations where it was meaningful and possible. Christian Democrats look at Slovenian cultural space more widely because we know that about half a million Slovenians live outside the borders of Slovenia. There is a rich culture in all areas. Slovenians participate in numerous cultural societies, theatres, collection of archival materials, various objects they exhibit in Slovenian museums. Our ambassadors are in many countries of Europe and the world, so we have proposed several amendments to incorporate the cultural participation of Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia into different chapters. These Slovenians are also an important part of the national body, which preserves its identity by means of cultural activities. That is why it is very appropriate for us to include this in the national programme for culture. Slovenian culture, ladies and gentlemen, is not limited to the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenian culture is a global culture. Let us not be afraid of such an approach and such a concept. The motion for a resolution will be supported by Members of New Slovenia, but we would be more pleased if the ministry and the coalition would take into account and support our comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you, too. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, headed by the Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! We can see that the content of the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture 2014-2017 brings a lot of important starting points and guidelines, which we welcome. The added value of the document has already been quite a bit of a talk, so I will focus on the national community in particular. Unfortunately, I must begin by saying that we are only partially satisfied with the proposed resolution from this point of view. It is important, and I begin with the good content that we have upgraded the original text in the context of subsection Public interest in the Slovenian language chapter during the treatment phase. The text of the resolution emphasizes that the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to its comprehensive care for Slovenian language in the country, implements an effective language policy for the public and official use of the Italian and Hungarian languages in the areas of the municipalities in which the said communities live, and this makes sense for other minority languages and foreign languages. An important upgrade to the original text of the resolution is also called digitisation in the chapter. The resolution provides special attention to the obligations under this content, which are tailored to young people and to the cultural needs of ethnic minorities and other vulnerable groups. As I have already said, we regret that, in part, due to procedural complications, I believe, and in part also due to the lack of attention and time in the very important chapter of Human rights and the protection of cultural diversity, which brings a certain added value in terms of national or minority issues, we have not been able to upgrade the text of the resolution with two important content. One related to the fact that, in addition to integration into the Slovenian cultural space of national culture, which is an important interest of every minority or ethnic community, the importance of the specificity of the activities of the minority or ethnic community is also supported, but we have failed to do so. In addition to the other important content which did not receive support, it was a proposal for a text to ensure the promotion of the language and culture of indigenous national communities and other ethnic groups to other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of or through cultural activities and information. This is particularly so that, in order to create even more favourable conditions and values for co-existence and abandonment, unfortunately there are still negative stereotypes, this would be very welcome and of utmost importance. Because of all of this, we have half of our feelings about this document and we may not be quite thrilled enough. At the same time, due to correctness, we stress that it is important and commendable that the specific programmes of the national communities are adequately supported despite the circumstances, thank God. Finally, I should like to add that, personally, the content mentioned earlier by Mr Horvath has also surprised me that, for Slovenians outside the boundaries of the native people, in the overall regulation of this cultural relationship, at least after my assessment, there was not enough listening, especially because it is a strategic document, not specific programmes where it can be planned a little more than circumstances allow us to do so in a particular case. I believe, and therefore I conclude that the resolution undoubtedly brings a lot of added value, but from a minority perspective we have only slightly less favourable or good feelings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you, too. Mr Dragan Bosic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the ambassadors of the government, to the ambassadors of the people, as many of us as there are. Otherwise, I imagined that I could speak to a wider auditorium, because this should almost be a holiday for the adoption of a resolution on a national programme for culture. And that's exactly what we are, just before the holidays and also on the committee we've been looking at just before the holidays, just before the day of the reformation. The position of the Ambassador of the Group of Positive Slovenia is as follows. We believe that the resolution of the National Programme for Culture has best excused the independent Ministry of Culture. This programme proves and proves and verifies that this ministry has its own meaning, which it also carries out. This clearly calls for support for the resolution itself. Even with the amendments, which means, according to our added value, we will support you, which means that from Wednesday we will make your life miserable, as the secretary said before, that it will then start with implementation plans and other activities. What should be highlighted on our part? Three objectives were mentioned: excellence, diversity, accessibility. If you combine these three, you already get 64 combinations and within each one more. We see these three goals in some dynamic relationship. Greater accessibility is possible, but we believe that the resolution is essentially aimed at people, people, which means that this accessibility must be maintained more or less in the spirit of the budget, as I have already said on the Committee. The next thing I would point out is the very definition of culture, from the verb "colere", which means to cultivate and protect. We believe that culture is not the umbrella or the key to the car, and I mentioned two things that people often lose most. Why? Because if you lose the umbrella, you know what you're going to look for, but in culture, the problem is that the loss of culture is a reversible process, which means you don't know what to look for. It mentions a little bit about Man and Black and the light, all of a sudden you're out of everything. And this is what the resolution attaches to our important and necessary concern. As it began on the eve of the Reformation Day, it also has something reformer in it, which it would also point out, and we also appreciate that, namely, the reform of the labour market in culture, which is one such courageous step in the right direction. This means that once again from this city congratulations on this demonstrated courage. We will monitor, as we have been monitoring since 7 June 2013 a careful development in relation to this national programme and all these discussions or panels to which we have had access and have demonstrated a broad interest and activity of all stakeholders. That means we're moving on, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you, too. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the SDS Group, we support the resolution on the national programme for culture for the period 2014-2017. This is an important document for Slovenian culture, with which we will plan cultural policy. The objectives and priorities in all areas are also identified and should follow the three fundamental principles of cultural policy, which have already been mentioned: excellence, diversity and accessibility. We still miss this in some chapters, so we tabled some amendments. At the same time, it must be said that we may have implemented the previous resolutions quite poorly, which is the third in a row, this is often happening to us. Most often, money or underfunding is the reason, but sometimes it is not the right thing to do, so I want this resolution to have a happier path. We assess, as has already been said and said, that there may be a lack of homeliness or emphasis on patriotism, because this is then also the basis for calls for proposals for this area, so that we will support the amendments of New Slovenia. We also estimate that the importance of RTV Slovenia or RTV Slovenia is too high, but programmes of particular importance are also important. We know how much this means for the local environment, i.e. local and regional radio and television programmes, because people are also interested in local news, but not in all of the programmes. This is probably how we should pay a little more attention to this area. In the case of cultural heritage, we have highlighted on the Committee the drawing of funds from financial mechanisms. I think we should also talk about what we want with some renovations. We rebuild castles, and then we run out of content, or some similar architectural pearls we usually start to rebuild before we know what to do with them. So after millions of euros are invested in the walls, we have a problem with content. That's how there's more to be done here. It's not necessarily about money, or it's not about money at all. We have tabled an amendment to our lovemaking activities. The representative of the Ministry said that you are seriously counting on culture, that you really think, I think that somehow there is no magnetogram yet, so I couldn’t quite check, but in performing in theatre production in the first measure you wrote that by 2017 you would reduce the number of premieres in the production of NGOs. While the purpose you explain is positive. So that you want to improve the quality, but the measure is not the right one. So you can't reduce the number of prime ministers, thank God they are, but you have to make sure that quality is better and that there will be more reproductions, so more repetitions. Of course, this is difficult to compare with public institutions where some people have employees to take care of roaming, unlike NGOs, where it is usually all in one person, directorate, dramaturgy and then the organisation of hosting. Expecting them to organise so many repetitions is somewhat illustrative. For our feeling, it is not the right measure to reduce the number of prime ministers, but to help things happen again and again. Therefore, we have proposed that this first measure should be deleted and that the volume of post-production remains to be increased. We have tabled another amendment to media plurality as a basis for achieving media literacy. In the introduction you have in the field of media, you yourself state that we are particularly weak here, that there are many media, but that does not mean that plurality is guaranteed. We all know we don't have a right-hand diary either. We have two right-hand ones. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And you don't want to spend any more money for these two, so we also requested an extraordinary board meeting. [[…]] I think we should do something else here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's an acctorial introduction first. However, we will remember the resolution well because we adopted it on the committee on the eve of the reform day and at the plenary session on the Maistre Day. Holidays can be taken and celebrated either by fun or by work. For me, dealing with a resolution in such circumstances is particularly valuable. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the draft resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017. It is high time to redefine the country's strategic direction in this area after almost two years of declaration eclipse. After two resolutions – the first presented by Minister Andreja Richter in 2004 and the second in 2008 by Minister Vasko Simoniti – this is the third document produced under the 2002 Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Let us recall that the first attempt to create a development document on culture dates back to 2000, when the debate on the proposal by Minister Rudi Sheliga in the National Assembly was preceded by an election. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture as a far-reaching challenge of cultural policy to ensure public interest in this area. At the declaration level, it covers substantive arguments for the preparation of the annual budget, directs the work of the competent minister and the Government, sets priorities for investment in public cultural infrastructure, which are also based on the Cultural Tolar Act, and last but not least offers an opportunity to discuss annually the state of this constitutional element of national identity with us. The proposed resolution was accompanied by high expectations from the public, also encouraged by the Minister, as its draft in June this year was presented as a new model of cultural policy. The question is whether the document achieves this definition. The resolution comes at a time of a limited public financial framework, with limited opportunities to deal effectively with the situation of the economic and social crisis. Notwithstanding those circumstances, we are particularly pleased with the way in which the proposal was prepared, which allowed for broad public participation. This was not least recognised by the National Council for Culture and considered that a number of proposals were included in the proposal by the professional public. In our opinion, this direction of the Ministry creates the conditions for continued dialogue, which we missed at the time of the absence of the Ministry of Culture. The draft resolution on the national programme for culture 2014-2017 at the principal level adequately reflects the state of cultural space in Slovenia. It responds mainly to the proposals offered in the past by individual state associations or the public concerned, but nevertheless presents some innovative approaches. The document thus offers a very solid section of the needs and demands of culture in the coming period. In particular, we welcome the diplomatic approach to introducing cultural change, which places great emphasis on the involvement of the public concerned. We are convinced that the application of measures in practice could also bring about significant progress in understanding the importance of the presence of culture. Among the works that we want to highlight is a chapter dedicated to the labour market in culture and self-employed people. At the same time, we find it particularly important to emphasise the priority support given to young people who suffer the worst consequences of the labour market during the crisis, and the behaviour of the previous government has further deepened their difficulties. Special attention in the Group of Social Democrats is paid to the culture of lovers. On this occasion, we draw attention to the efforts of the Association of Cultural Society after a clearer legal arrangement and express our expectation that the competent ministry will examine and take into account the proposals made in the preparation of the sectoral legislation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the motion for a resolution, and for the reasons set out below, we deny support for the proposed amendments that are not of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you, too. Mrs Polonca Komar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Culture denotes different meanings in different areas of human activity, in particular the area of human mind, artistic activity and creation. Culture is an endless process. It is a tradition and a changing future. Therefore, of course, it is not unusual that we have before us such a broad proposal for a resolution of the national programme on culture. Despite the vastness, we can say that a coordinated document is before us. No one can be fully satisfied with it, but it certainly covers all areas of culture and we can also find with satisfaction that it has been created by the general public, all stakeholders, and that the document is also inter-sectorally coordinated. It is very difficult to fly all about the important cultural areas it covers. So allow me just a few thoughts. Reading culture is very important for Slovenia. Increasing the sales of books and their accessibility is a challenge for the ministry. To encourage an individual and to draw attention to the importance of the book and the reading, as well as the preservation of our language, is a challenge for each individual. For years we have been able to hear that Slovenian film is in crisis. And it certainly is. However, we can see that a great deal of effort has been put into this area by individuals, authors and creators. But I wonder if we can really appreciate our Slovenian film. And what is the media landscape in Slovenia? When we talk about media pluralism, we quickly find ourselves on thin ice. The holes in media law must move us to deal with this work with all due care. How sensitive we are when it comes to the drafting of media legislation is probably not to be given special attention. In doing so, it will be extremely important to re-examine the role and scope of the public service of RTV Slovenia, to strengthen quality programming content, radio and television programmes of public interest and to redefine the status, role, importance and funding of radio and television programmes of particular importance. Special care must also be taken to raise media literacy and create a more demanding media and cultural public, improve social status for self-employed and young journalists, and help create new forms of property management media models. All I can tell you is that we're going to sail across a raging media sea. The regulation of the labour market is also an important part of the national programme for culture, and we welcome this initiative in the National Gazette. We hope that this will actually affect the promotion and regulation of self-employment in culture. With regard to the work where the investments are under consideration, we estimate that the plan is quite optimistic at least in the spirit of the general financial situation we are in. However, we also want a happy outcome for all planned investments. In the Citizens' List, we will support the resolution and hope that there will also be enough will and resources to find a way to the objectives set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the chapters and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2013 First, I am putting to the debate chapter 2 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I thank you for not interrupting my position on the Group of Members. But I will, I promise, be rational in explaining our amendments. It is interesting that we are the smallest group of Members and that we have been somehow the most stubborn and persistent and productive in terms of making amendments, which I say are sincere, well-intentioned and would actually contribute to the development of a global Slovenian culture when adopted. And in fact, some are also written in the spirit of the Master. What did Master do on November 23, 1918? In some ways he expanded the Slovenian cultural space when he occupied Maribor with his 4000-member army. And since then, it has been said fifty-five years since, Maribor is Slovenian. If it were not for Maistra, there would actually be a decline in Slovenian cultural space. That's exactly the spirit our amendments are going for. There's quite a few of them. Because we think that, given the relatively small Slovenian national body, it is extremely important that we respect and promote culture, Slovenian culture, wherever on this planet it is already evolving. This is extremely important and I believe that, in fact, almost no one should object. It is this pre-emptive atmosphere that I hope will also be drawn to Wednesday when we determine it is an opportunity to open windows, heads and doors and, of course, hearts for Slovenian culture, wherever anyone on this planet is growing it. I therefore ask for support on behalf of the New Slovenia Group on amendments that are going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u197	The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u198	I would like to explain the attitude towards the amendments, which may have sounded a little harsh or too harsh in the opinion of the Group, because, in the absence of time, I could not explain the distinction between the amendment tabled by the coalition and is essentially merely editorial in nature. However, in the light of this resolution, it has happened to us that, due to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, there is a very large amount of open text in the resolution. And the openness of the text also allows the amendments to be tabled. At times, however, some part of the text was not open, and who could not put the amendments into that work. However, at the meeting of the Committee, Mr Ludmili Novak, who had tabled amendments on behalf of New Slovenia or explained amendments on behalf of New Slovenia, explained why amendments to New Slovenia were not acceptable and could not be included in the text of the resolution in the opinion of the drafters or motioners. It is therefore not a matter of any kind of priori decision that the opposition amendments should not be adopted, but rather of the consistency of the text. It is that we do not give more attention to one genre than to the other. In this case, the documentary film in this first amendment is mentioned, and this is a specific documentary produced by Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia. This could now be linked to the possibility of obtaining funds, many others, but, as we say, it is not any other situation to oppose this amendment, but from the perspective of the drafters of the resolution, the amendment is acceptable, as are the other amendments, and we will probably still be able to talk with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you, too. I invite you to report for discussion. Once again, Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I'm a fellow magician. I thank Majda Potrat for this explanation by the proposer, said by the Ministry or the Minister. It's true. I wasn't on this committee. I'm not covering this committee. However, I think, as I said in the beginning, it costs nothing, in fact, according to my experience, certainly even yours, people who develop Slovenian culture with a heart anywhere outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, I don't know if anyone has ever asked how much money they're going to get from the state budget for this. It is true, now that the second chapter is related to film and audiovisual activity, we have felt that it would also be good in this area, that in some way, at least with this modest text, which is said to be "documentary films or audiovisual works that are produced between Slovenes in place or around the world", to at least indicate that the state actually thinks of them, if not otherwise. And this kind of activity kind of excites me, because two days ago I was in Lendava, where they actually showed a very well-made documentary by the Primorski exodus. This is, of course, something quite different from the amendment or chapter we are talking about, but I still think that if the minister were to be persuaded for a little longer to relax, and even on the eve of the holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests from the Ministry! It would be best if I started to praise this program now, but I won't. Not because I'd be bad, but I'll tell you my point of view, which is slightly different. The fact is, the truths that we can benefit most usually are the hardest to hear, quickly drift away, and forget what someone has told us. Although this program is beautifully written, it has many pages, it is beautifully designed. A resolution like many so far. And I'd like to ask myself something else. We have had a lot of such resolutions in many areas. In the economic field, scientific, school and so on. Nicely written documents. Where did we come from? Not far. Not far. There's nothing to write down, it's a real awareness of the situation we're in. Everyone, I think, in principle, we have nothing against culture or we realize that culture is important. Like culture, or the country's cultural sector, the importance of education is important, health and so on. But this is all a social upgrade. Cultures, health care, social services, we'll have just as much as we have the capacity, the money. But money creates an economy. Of course, culture – indirectly. Without culture, I fully agree, but the economy is the heart of the country. And like the metaphor of a man, the heart fails, the man dies. Slovenia has lost its heart. The economy creates too little. It would also be right for the cultural sector to become aware of this in its own language and to adjust the scope of its requirements. And another look at history confirms that. Creativity in any field is not due to the amount of money. This shows a look back into history. Even during wars, in very difficult situations, people living in very poor conditions have created the greatest achievements. If the aim is to increase the number of cultural workers over the next few years, this is a good objective. However, it would be right that the cultural sector is also trying to achieve this goal with the so-called original incomes in culture, or else we will all get to the topic. Like many of us, I move in cultural circles. It is not easy to understand that some volunteer cultural societies have become practically destitute and, on the other hand, we are strengthening the so-called.i. The bureaucratic sector in culture, as elsewhere, and we ignore direct creators. I know it's not a very nice speech or thinking, but it is. We're all on the same ship in this country. And if the economic sector has fallen, if we have negative economic growth, it is necessary to adapt all other sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government! During the debate on the committee resolution, I strongly agreed and consistently defended the amendments of New Slovenia, which also put the need for Slovenian official policy in the cultural field to see and recognise the share of Slovenians living in the world, ours in place and around the world. On this eve of Master's Day, this call is even more justified. I have to say, I'm coming from Dr. Rosvita Pesek's book presentation on Pučnik. I was only there a little after the presentation, because I was rushing here so I could drop by here. I have to say that there were not all of the people in the hall, and probably a hundred of them were on the ground floor, but during those days when I got up quickly, I met Drago Achačič, who came from Canada, and Marjan Pippa, the famous representative of the Korean Slovenes. This testifies to how these locals are aware of the importance of the greats, the few Slovenian states, as many have said, including the President of the Republic at this presentation. For this reason, I believe that we are actually indebted and also owe what was said there and that everyone, including the President, agreed on what President Janša said. For the first time, we need to put the central market on the Colonel, when that happens, we will be a normal country. And I add that Pučnik was also a native, a force of opportunity being cast out, or we know his cruel destiny. I think that the country could also encourage large individuals to be filmed with foreign people, I mean with our Slovenians, what a film project. Not fast, conceited, well played, and that would be necessary to strengthen patriotism. I don't know what projects you have in the field of film and audiovisual works. I hope that in those projects, when you choose them, the ministry's policy is at least different in this area than it is in the book. Since the Minister answered the question in reply to the letter that the development and promotion of national consciousness is not one of the objectives of Rastim’s book, with which they try to attract young people, especially high school students or elementary school students, to love the book and read it. For me, I'm telling you, it's a monster. I hope that you do not have such non-domestic projects in the field of the book, and that it is actually necessary, although there is no specific amendment here now, but you can install this matter when something about the great natives is happening and the great Slovenians, the misdemeanors of the Slovenian homeland, the state, the Pučnik keep at least in mind. I saw there from some of the words of the current politicians, however, that they are only aware, including the President of the Republic, that it will be necessary to do so, to encourage also patriotism, national awareness and to give due recognition to those in the country and those who have also been abroad and who have done everything. I'm saying because I'm among the 50 participants, I don't know how many of them there have been, what three famous people living in the home are familiar to all of us, it's evidence, I'm telling you again how their heart is beating for Slovenia, even though there are successful people abroad. I wish that the heart of Slovenia would always be at the Ministry of Culture when deciding on the policy of the national programme of introduction into practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you very much. As Mrs Potrate warned, we have tabled several amendments on the committee by the coalition and then opened these articles so that some amendments have now been made. At this stage, I would like to point out, given the quantity, that the quantity itself is not yet sufficient for quality. And this amendment seems like one case to me, and I just don't think it's necessary. Of course, I absolutely agree with the proposaler that the creativity of Slovenians living outside national borders is very important both in the wider field of culture, especially in the field of film and audiovisual activity. However, these replacement organisations already have an equal opportunity to conclude contracts for drawing state aid for the production of cinematographic and autovisual works, as well as budgetary resources for other promotion projects. The public interest in film and audiovisual activities is defined by type of activity and objectives and is not defined by individual themes and target audiences. It is said that the proposed amendment would therefore not be adequately placed, since in the case of this amendment it is a matter of partial interest, with the interests of other groups and themes not particularly exposed in this part of the text. The proposed amendment specifically highlights only one particular film genre, a documentary film, the text of the amendment, thus limiting the principle of the general definition of public interest in film and audiovisual art. Given that this is not excluded in this chapter, I think that this amendment is unnecessary and we should define anyone else further because, as this chapter is written down, we do not exclude any. That's what I wanted to say, and we're not going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you. The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm going to call myself only once at this first amendment table. Let me stress that I have supported the amendments of the Christian Democrats on the Committee. As I said before, mainly because it is a strategic document in which, according to my opinion, particular attention should be paid to the national cultural space. I think we are all well aware that Slovenian cultural space is much wider so that it can narrow itself with the borders of Slovenia. I therefore consider that such content can be welcomed in the strategic documents. The second question is whether the content as divided as proposed in the amendments of a party to a respected colleague of Horvath is appropriate. On this issue, too, we may have missed an opportunity not to find solutions on the committee, where we would solve this problem in a complex way, which focuses on the coverage of the cultures of the Slovenians and the Slovenians around the world. I certainly have a bitter taste in this, and I also stress that I will also support these amendments in the debate. The reasons were different. But now that I am not delaying, I will mention only one thing that has also been mentioned at this meeting, namely that it is necessary to insist in all ways on the systematic financing of local organisations, cultural activities there, which is fully acceptable and should be sought. However, I do not believe that this does not yet mean that in documents such as a national cultural programme or a resolution, there is no document on this, where we should not have a slightly larger width. I stress, as I have already said in the case of our amendments, which are not on the agenda now, because, unfortunately, there was no possibility. I'm not going to let go. I must sincerely acknowledge and also confirm that the Ministry has done everything here and that we have been working together until the last moment and we have also harmonised the text. The board's leadership has also tried to help. Well, I'm not going to get involved, but procedurally, I'm guessing, it's either some inconsistencies or a mistake to let that possibility go. Similarly, in the case of amendments relating to cultural activities of Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia. Finally, I would just like to highlight one thing, where two content unites. It is precisely in this Central European area that we are trying at all levels and in all areas to capture these values of the intersection of different cultures. If I compare what fell out of our amendments, i.e. some specificity of our activities, which are also culturally integrated into another cultural language space, as the culture of the Slovenian Slovenians integrates into the Slovenian national cultural space, we could take another step in terms of such documents and all our activities. Let me finish. I think that the resolution is largely satisfactory, it undoubtedly brings added values, but a bitter taste, as far as these two areas are concerned and are concerned with a minority issue, both within and outside, unfortunately remains. But I will support the amendments that go this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you, too. There is still a desire to discuss and I invite you to report. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Since what I'm about to say can be said under a number of other amendments, however, I should react to what is now somehow in the air, if the resolution on the national programme does not give rise to sufficient sensitivity to both the Slovenians around the world and national minorities. I can't accept that. I consider the resolution to be a strategic document, which is coherent, which is at the principle level to be respected and will go beyond the mandate of this government. It must therefore be principled in nature, so it must be reconsidered in such a way, created in such a way that it will be bound to be realized by another government suit. I recall from past times that some minister in the National Assembly felt that he had been given a choice to take things out of the resolution as he saw in his own vision of cultural policy. But if the resolution text is changing, it must change in the same way as it was adopted. So much for that. We voted on all the amendments. The time limits for the amendment were taken into account in the course of business and amendments to the Committee's amendments were also adopted. So here things have to be said the way they are. Either the contents of an amendment tabled were such that that amendment received support or not, it was another story. I agree with you, Dr. Göncz, that in order to record the magnetogram, we have then rejected your third or fourth amendment on the committee and announced that the coordination will continue until the meeting of the National Assembly. Because of the amendments or the rejection of the part of the resolution to which your amendment could be adopted or your amendment tabled, it was not open, and this is what we said in several conversations. However, I must add here that I do not see any obstacle in that everything you wanted to bring with the amendment to the resolution would not be realistic in the implementation works and in the financing below in the budget where the funds need to be provided. However, as far as I am concerned, the part related to the promotion of the Hungarian and Italian communities, and only those two national communities were written there in the amendment with promotion, may be said that the promotion and what you say, the awareness of the majority people in the country of Slovenia, that the promotion for, if I look from a minority point of view, for the constitutional minority is slightly better at institutional level than for others. For example, this cannot be compared with the promotion of some other minority communities, which are not specifically named by the Constitution, but exist and are so pronounced by number that they should also be brought into the minds of the majority people in a more visible way. As for Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia, however, it is from the definition of the Ministry, as well as reading the entire document, but it is possible to understand that they are considered to be part of the national body. And then when we discuss the document at this principle level, I reiterate, at the principle level, that things need to be considered, whether then with some small segment they need to be highlighted and come, I will not waste too much time, but here I want to tell you what the problem is. On the 15th page of the supplementary motion for a resolution, you will find any proven or defined three ways of expressing public interest in the film and audiovisual activities in the centre. And at a very general level, the first indent: Ensuring conditions for the development and quality of film, cinematographic and audiovisual activities in all stages of the so-called cinematographic chain from development through production, promotion, distribution and display of film heritage to film education and education and festival activities. That's the first line. Second indent: Availability and ratings of quality cinematographic and audiovisual works in Slovenia and Slovenian film and audiovisual works in the international space. And third indent: Development and functioning of the cinematographic and audiovisual market. And now, as the fourth indent, we would add: Documentary films or audiovisual works that are produced between Slovenians in the place or in the world. A completely different diction, a completely different approach. I believe that the consistency of the text of the resolution should be maintained. Once again, it is not an apriorous rejection of the amendments. It is simply about what resolution text we will leave as legislators after the debate and the vote on the amendments. However, it is quite clear that Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia are part of the national body, that in the law that we have specifically written about this, this is acknowledged. I propose that we do not now try to compete in who is stronger in expressing emotional support to Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Joseph Horvath. Maybe the right thing to do is to sign up for a debate, and please? [[...]] A replica? There's gonna be a debate, and I don't think there's gonna be a problem because there aren't many of us reported. Would you like a replica, Mr. Göncz?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Just because I understand my speech clearly, I would like to point out that I have made only a comparison because of some broader context, but I certainly do not deny the events concerning our amendments and I do not want to involve them anymore in the process of today's debate. I would only like to stress that I, too, did not deny that the national cultural programme or resolution does not speak of the integration of Slovenians outside the borders into Slovenian cultural space. Just the opposite. I have only tried, on the basis of some parallels or some comparisons, to further substantiate that the strategic documents may nevertheless contain a somewhat broader content, and this is not yet a concrete programme. Maybe that's the end of it. I also stressed the correctness with regard to the bill-maker, which concerns participation in discussions on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, here's the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Look, guys and colleagues, it's not even about the competition, God forbid. If they had listened to me correctly, then in the position I read, they would have heard the following: "The motion for a resolution will be supported by Members of New Slovenia, but we would have done so with greater satisfaction, with greater pleasure, if the ministry and the coalition would take into account and support our comments." Our votes are guaranteed for this resolution, we are not setting any ultimatums. My colleague Jerič, we could not put the amendments in otherwise, because the resolution is so structured. Once again, I am not the bearer of this resolution in our parliamentary group, I have not studied it, but frankly, if it is now somewhere in this resolution that it is ensured that the definition, for example, of the Slovenian cultural space, where it would be clear what we think of a global Slovenian culture, would then be calmed down, perhaps even withdrawing these amendments. But look, I'm really not going to make any more calls, it's just that we're kind of giving credit to what's actually going on. What my colleague Jerič said is that cultural societies around the world can compete for resources from our budget. All of this is actually happening. It was only intended to be written in a resolution, which is only a cover document of the development of Slovenian culture, that we also think of those who develop Slovenian culture outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Look now in this context, not because colleague László Göncz expressed his support for our amendments, but when I had the privilege of having been invited by the President of the National Assembly to a delegation that visited Use and Budapest, and when we had actually reached the meeting with President Orban in two hours, and then at their government's meeting the question of financing our two schools in Use, 15 000 euros and 5 million forints each. This excites me, so I think that at home, which we are only in some way advocates of Slovenian culture, the global Slovenian culture, we should somehow be the biggest advocates. And mag. Vogrina. If I understood it correctly, yes, the fact is that culture is actually the easiest way and the cheapest way to open the door to business cooperation. So let us not be afraid of this approach, this concept of a global Slovenian culture. Now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm sorry, the government has the floor. Dr. Aleš Crnitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Just briefly, it will not really appear that we are afraid or that we do not understand this concept of a global Slovenian culture. It is clear to us that Slovenian cultural space is beyond the borders of our country. We are deeply aware of this, and we have also written this in several places into the national programme for culture. Mrs Potrata explained very precisely why we did not support this amendment, because it is really undermining the structure of the chapter. But I think it's already a quick look at the chapter on amateur culture, where we explicitly also wrote Slovenians in place and around the world, even in the chapter on Slovenian language we have them. The largest share of their cultural activities belongs to this field of amateur culture. Slovenian language, we know that it is essential to exist. In short, we have no symbolic objections here or incomprehensible. On the contrary. I agree with everything you've said, these intentions are in place, but this amendment here in this field of film, in the way it's written, but it really broke the structure, so we just couldn't support it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to chapter three, and I am putting into discussion chapter 3 and the amendment of the coalition's sent groups, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to report to the debate. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you. Since the three amendments, I express my support for the amendment of coalition parties, which is not of a substantive nature, but merely editorial. On the 24th page of paragraph 1 in the middle, you will see the number of co-financed activities of public institutions and the non-governmental sector, and how many the prime ministers were in production or re-production of public institutions and how many non-governmental sectors were in production, and then you will see that the sum is not correct. And the amendment actually only corrects this mistake. There were 2244 repetitions. And that's why it has to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you, too. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I must say, the editorial amendment is not disputed. More importantly, the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party under number 3 and New Slovenia under number 2 are even broader. Both of them have seen the incomprehensible issue for me that under Chapter to increase the availability of quality theatre production among the measures is recorded 'by 2017, the number of prime ministers of production of NGOs by at least 20% and not to increase the number of prime ministers in the production of public institutions'. If I can explain it to myself, as it is written, it seems to me that you have a plan to phase out lovemaking. Once reduced by 20%, this trend is likely to be maintained. Of course, we propose that this be deleted, this is an unacceptable indent, I don't even know how it got in. I think that in a normal country, normal society should be encouraged to do so. You are probably mathematically reducing funds that can be donated, but you have to believe that our people are decent, noble, hardworking and will understand that subsidies may be reduced, but they will want to do something for this culture and for this country something and for this country. I don't think they agree on this under any circumstances and we can't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 4 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I'm moving on to Chapter 6. I am putting to the debate chapter 6 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 8 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u222	I'm sorry, which amendment I didn't follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u223	Chapter 8, the amendment of New Slovenia and your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u224	I think it is an extremely important amendment where a new second indent of "supporting the development of media plurality as a basis for achieving media literacy" is added under measures. You are talking here about media literacy and, of course, it is quite clear that without plurality there is no complete literacy in any area of culture, at least in the field of media literacy. We are extremely handicapped here in Slovenia. I am aware that this is a conscious policy of the left option all the time, and that even when the government is replaced, when people choose a second leadership of the country, this sphere in this area retains a monopoly and a dominant role and in its own way contributes to the fact that these periods of political plurality, if I say so, are as short as possible in power. However, at least in a resolution at the principle level you must recognise this, and this is also part of the resolution. I hope that Members will be so far-reaching, including those plural in the field of culture and the media, that this amendment will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you. I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe just two sentences. See, Slovenians who live within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, now allow me to be a bit locally focused, the Pomurci would have no idea what is going on with Slovenians in Use, if not for this regional, local media to inform us about this. Of course, we are also informed by the media at national level, RTV etc. But what I said was true. Look, we're listening there every Monday at the Murska wave, which was doing a special job of what's going on between the Slovenians, because the rapporteur or the rapporteur is always on the phone. That's why this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this is a sub-chapter of Conservation and Development of General Information Clocks, Newspapers and Magazines, regardless of the media dissemination platform. This part includes the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. But if we are to discuss media literacy and to clarify what the resolution on media literacy actually says, however, it is necessary to look at the first chapter, which is of principle nature, the guidelines express where the public interest is defined, and within this definition of public interest is the promotion and development of media literacy in the first place. Due to the network of circumstances and activities and meetings of the Committee on Culture, I also went to review the curriculums of the elementary school in Slovenia on what can be found there, indicating whether young people from the first to ninth years hear anything in school, which could be linked to media literacy. And I found such content. It is, therefore, that the promotion and development of media literacy is already integrated into the education system. So I don't think he's showing us what anyone wants or what they're afraid of. However, I fear that plurality is understood differently, that we often have in mind only one type of media landscape, only the part that covers information programs or information parts of messages, not something else. Plurality is everything else. What seems most important to me is that we raise from our young feet good readers, good listeners, who will be able to recognize the media content, who will be able to distinguish between satire and news, who will know between the report and the comment to separate and similar things. And that's essential. Or we have a right-hand diary, as previously said, or a left-hand diary, but this is something that I think appears to encourage in a different way, rather than a resolution to have, as we had before, an experiment was unsuccessful, funded by a diary that did not have the necessary critical mass in reading and did not survive. I am this amendment in this place, so formulated,'supporting the development of media plurality as a basis for achieving media literacy', I do not see it this way. I see, as well as the definition of reading literacy, this is also linked to the horizon of reading expectations or the audience's expectations and to many. This is indeed a matter for an individual. It doesn't help me if a medium offers me something that I don't care about. However, the media must offer this content in the public interest because it is of interest to someone else. I agree with that. But in a way that is now connected to dividing the media space left: right, but it seems to me that this way is impossible to reach. I was going to say some personal experience, but, well, I'm going to say it anyway. [[…]] Just like the right journalists I've met on the fire station, I don't get to meet very often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest. I'd like to ask you to report it. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! Even in Positive Slovenia, we cannot support the proposed amendment. However, since there has already been talk on plurality and on the balance of media space, we certainly agree that important elements of public interest in the field of media are, but cannot be developed through media literacy measures. Of course, we agree with the proposaler that the provision of budget resources to the media through a special call for proposals has not produced the desired effects, so we will find more appropriate solutions to the development of media pluralism by a new media law, which is expected to be prepared in the coming year. Today's debates in relation to certain cases or certain directions, right-left and so on, I think, as is colleague mag. The waste highlighted, perhaps the right path should be found in this direction. As for the media of special regional importance, as well as support for the media on the local-national route, all those, like colleague Horvat, who are in areas slightly away from the centre of Slovenia, as far as information is concerned, are often faced with the fact that it is the media of a particular area, whether television or radio, that is of regional importance to inform and inform people in such slightly more neglected areas in Slovenia. Of course, in connection with what the media is informing the public about, I also agree with my colleague, Potrate, when she stressed that this is not just information. This is all the other areas, because today we are talking about a national programme for culture, whether it is an area of culture, as well as all other areas, as well as education, including intergenerational learning, and also support in this area of pluralism. We cannot support this amendment in Positive Slovenia. But we are sure for change, change for the better by also adopting a change to the media law, and especially that people at all ends of Slovenia, as well as people outside the borders, have the feeling that we are equal and equal citizens and citizens of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you very much. If I refer to the conclusion of my colleague Renata, then I must say that as a representative of the spring political option and the parties in this area I cannot feel equal, even though you said that we should stand up for it. But you will not support this amendment, even though you guarantee that you are for equality. One political gender in this country is not equal in terms of media coverage and plurality. That's more than clear. Unfortunately, we are probably the only country in Europe where we do not have government and opposition newspapers in the field of daily newspapers, or at least a daily newspaper. I don't know if it upsets you at the Ministry. If you're a bit of an expert, you should be upset. I must say, I thank my colleague for his honesty when she said that we understand this media literacy and plurality differently. I'm sure. From what she said, she seems to understand it differently from what she said. to me or to the citizens of other countries with a long parliamentary and democratic tradition, which certainly understands this matter differently from her. And when he says that this is integrated into the public interest education programme. You see, that's a problem for you to think the problem is solved. This cannot be a beneficial result because media pluralism in the field of printed daily newspapers our students cannot even see, let alone have a practical exercise. I'm a chemist, and we've had hours and hours of lab exercises. Just what you can do, do, practically do, practically explore and see, is possible. Unfortunately for us, media pluralism in the field of daily newspaper is an illusion so far and is a pigeon on the roof. And with a pigeon on the roof, we can't satisfy ourselves. We can't raise quality listeners in this way, but I don't want to insult anyone. Only people growing up in this are handicapped in this country. And that has a lot of consequences, catastrophic. We would not have plundered Slovenia, looted banks, if we had in the field of daily newspapers from the first day of double-police newspapers, government and opposition, which are controlled and controlled by the authorities, and then people can read among the lines. They don't take for dry gold what government propaganda teaches them. Although we had opposition newspapers during the period of government parties. At the time, we had only the opposition, we had no government at the time. That's all it is again is monopolity. I would like to begin to understand this in a uniform, not different way, as they perceive it everywhere in mature democracies and then we will also have in the field of printed media as correct journalists as they are in the Firehouse and will also recognise some other values. Although your colleague, Potts, has praised this, but they don't want it in the press. That bothers me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you, too. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you. I'd like to add another personal note about the media. I don't miss these left-wing, right-wing media, or I'm not exactly the kind of criteria for reading this kind of media. I want independent media and media as intermediaries. I don't want the media to appear as the creators of some information. The media is, by definition, an intermediary, and it mediates facts. That means verified, verifiable data. If this is about me getting media coverage in a way that I like the medium, I can't help but understand it, not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you. That it won't stay in the air what I want. I would like to have a quality plural media landscape so that we can have as much literacy as possible, as well as media literacy, in order to develop all that and give opportunities to those who carry creativity within them, and at the same time to those of us who do not create it, but as readers or viewers we also co-create, be active and develop in doing so. What I think is in the perception of the Slovenians, and now I am speaking to the Slovenians, which is essential, I will tell you with one example of school practice. Our students who are involved in international knowledge testing depart from others after significantly higher assessments of their knowledge than theirs. And I would like our knowledge to be better than we think of it. Because those who have molded me as a teacher have also taught me that it is never bad enough to demand that I be poor enough. I would expect such a media landscape that would make us as rich as possible, and then probably also have a little more optimism in us, and probably all that is necessary for life in society, including tolerance, also a sense of diversity, and we would have a variety of valuables, not something we run away from. So much, Mr Jerovšek, that you will now know what I want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I would refer to it myself from another point of view, why I believe such an amendment does not belong here. We are discussing the national programme for culture, and Mr Jerovšek comments by the proposaler that the amendment is correct from his point of view, because he is supposed to want more, I don't know, politically colored media. It's generally called media pluralism. I think that this document, the national programme for culture, must be as politically neutral as possible and must not contain these. If there is a place for this subject, I think it is precisely in the Media Act, as I see that some solutions are being prepared next year for the development of media pluralism. This amendment, I don't think it's appropriate in this document and I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek also wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u240	I'm sorry if I didn't understand the final thought of my colleague, Potrate, who thinks that diversity is something we're running from. I hope you don't tell me that. I am absolutely tolerant of all differences. But in the field of media, I am also aware of the importance of pluralism, at least duality, as many views as possible. Once again, this is the basic evil that has led us to this situation, which these Taiwanese structures have taken advantage of and, of course, some political structures. I also do not agree with my colleague Jerič that a neutral programme should not provide for support for the development of media literacy and plurality. If he doesn't do it in a country where you're not plural, he's not neutral. Then he's narrowly political, biased. At least that is what I think fellow Members should be aware of, and no matter what customer they come from. Such a program is not neutral if it does not detect a lack or express shortcomings in an area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 10 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 12 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 14 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Chapter 15 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you very much. On this amendment, I would like to say that I expected that the ministry would only come with an amendment that would change or correct the higher level of regional and regional cultural integration of minorities. On the Committee, I pointed out that in such a context as this is written and this integration of minorities refers to the German-speaking ethnic group and then also to the Belarusian Serbs somewhere in the text, that the use of the concept and definition that is, is unconstitutional, because such minorities are not currently in our constitution, but there are ethnic groups, which are correctly used in the text. I warned you that this introduction is at least two additional minorities through the back door. And such attempts and trends, such interests exist intensely. But here I must say that you are obliged to support this as a government and to change. We know that there are very strong interests that on average now recognise minorities in Slovenia. And we know that, once again, there are two indigenous minorities in the constitution who have special status, but there is another way in which the Roma community is different. Others have the right to this cultural diversity and cultural affairs under these cultural programmes, but once again we are talking about ethnic groups. I see that, I don't know, but now I want you to define whether you've changed your mind, consulted with lawyers, consulted with constitutional lawyers – who you've consulted. Such superficiality and benevolence cannot be imagined to exist in the cultural ministry. It is a matter of far - reaching consequences that someone may have planned and planned, for we know when it is written down once, and then it is quoted as saying that it has always been so thought out. The last line says here, "the limited approach can also be applied analogously to other minority communities or groups included in inter-State agreements." This text is otherwise very confusingly written, but the text basically speaks correctly of the ethnic community. Our amendment assumes that this is the content covered by this second chapter and correctly sets out how this must be said. Otherwise, this text of the resolution will be constitutionally disputed and will have to complain to the Constitutional Court to teach you what the Slovenian Constitution looks like, what it foresees. You can have interests, you can hide any nostalgia here, but as a Member I must request a text or a dictatorship that is not constitutionally disputed. And this one is constitutionally controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you. A representative of the Government, Dr. Aleš Črnič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Given that Mr Jerovšek wanted an immediate direct answer, we are happy to answer this question, given that you addressed it directly to us. The title of this chapter includes the word "minority", so that this "minority" does not mean a constitutionally recognised national minority. This "minority" also means minorities in different respects, not only in national terms. This chapter includes three measures aimed at ethnic minorities, as well as other minorities, persons with disabilities, for example. It is therefore impossible, in a substantive sense, to change the title of this chapter to the national community, since the remaining minority types should then be excluded from this chapter. So it's not about introducing real minorities, new constitutional minorities through the side door, or other conscious purposes, but it's about the content structure of this chapter that is such that it talks about different types of minorities, and it's not just about national minorities. However, as regards the second amendment, this complements a measure already aimed at ethnic communities or groups alone within this broader objective and thus does not contribute in a substantive sense. The matter is already covered in this chapter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's more of you. I invite you to report. Mag. Maja Potrat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you. Not that I wanted to be hairy, but when I received the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, this amendment referred to chapter 15 – Human rights and the protection of cultural heritage. I'm not going to comment on why you didn't file an amendment or not. Everything seems fine now, because this chapter is missing and the error has been erased. But here again we could discuss the use of the term minority. In the case of a minority that has a distinct language code or designation of belonging to a non-majority nation in that country, the use of the term "minority" is also possible in the labelling of other vulnerable groups. And it's been said, I've been working on a letter for deaf-blind people lately. This is, for example, such a vulnerable group. Its members, because they speak their own language and sign language for the deaf is their first language, but they are blind, and I can't even say that. But this is the case, even if you have a vulnerable group, it can be highly diverse according to its ethnicity, and it is also a Slovenian who is a member of such a vulnerable group, in this case a minority community. As far as the constitutional or non-constitutional minorities are concerned, it is quite clear that the Italian and Hungarian national communities have been defined by the Constitution and are constitutionally equivalent, as is shown in that part of the fact that the languages of these two national communities are in the municipalities where they live, where they are autonomously populated, equivalent to the official languages, such as the majority language. For the Roma we have another, for the nomadic Germans or for the German community, an interstate agreement with Austria and more. But we cannot ignore the fact that there are also some other ethnic communities in this territory that are not in the constitution, which are not listed, which are not named, but at the same time in this global world we are also facing the acquisition of the population and immigrants, whom we must also guarantee by the Constitution the right to preserve their cultural identity. I don't see any hidden plans here, no unconstitutionality, none of that. But I will refer to article 14 of the Constitution, which says that no matter what we are, you know what we are all about before the law and after the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u247	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u248	I must say, first of all, I am disappointed with the very superficial response of the Ministry. Obviously you haven't consulted with your lawyers, otherwise we would have advised you otherwise. Once again, if the text can contain a true diction, the terms are given, it may also appear in the title. The address thus appears to be a precursor to the introduction of some additional minorities. We know that there are such interests in this country, and there are also loud demands. In fact, certain individuals in these groups even imagine that they should have more groups than the indigenous Slovenian population. I know the term minority very well in different contexts. If it were just other minorities, it must be a minority or, say, one minority is those people, I hope that the minority is secondary, even in the opinion of some politicians. I hope it's a minority, and it can be used to be a minority. Here, however, this term is explicitly used as a minority of the members of two ethnic groups, two nationalities, which is the right thing to have and to recognise. I am also the ally of preserving their cultural identity and their national pride and everything. I just don't know if we're mature or ready to have 10 national minorities once a night who will have the same rights if we admit it. It is said that one tenth of this House will be elected by another key, which in itself would be nothing bad, but the Constitution speaks differently and must be respected as long as it is so. And such preludes, we know from a number of other cases, what it's like to offer someone a finger, the next step comes up and says, and I want to have a hand. Or daily concessions, for example in another area, in the field of the protection of Slovenia's interests with Croatia when each word is used. Every word. This week we have a case where Minister Erjavac is now taking his pants off there. And that's what we can do, and it's no big deal, and then we come so far that we don't end up defending even what's primary and extremely important and especially important. There is a very clear position here that this needs to be changed. I hope that reason, political sobriety, and also, I must say, political reason to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Even in Positive Slovenia, this first amendment, which states that the title of the second sub-chapter should be changed and that the level of regional and regional cultural integration of ethnic minorities should be higher, in order to adopt a change of expression from minorities to ethnic groups. Our assessment is that such a change would be absolutely unacceptable to us. This would mean injustice, in some ways even discrimination against some people. If I also focus a little bit on the area I come from when my colleague Jerovšek spoke about Orthodox Serbs from the White Country. I live alone in an area where we have descendants from Žumberk, who are Greek-Catholic, so these are not exactly the same as Serbs from areas around Vinice, come from those areas, so they are also in some way separated. That's how they define it, even though maybe someone would say it's the same thing. But it's not. In some cases, they're different. I think that this diversity and multiculturalism, as well as a variety of ideological affiliations, are right to respect. We cannot support this amendment in Positive Slovenia, but of course we believe that the word of the minority is appropriate, appropriate, because we have, as has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State of Mr Crnič, people with disabilities, we have diabetes, we have different people who are in some minorities, although ethnically they can be completely different. Therefore, we cannot support this amendment and these changes. Not by yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. See, this chapter, which discusses human rights and the protection of cultural diversity, is structured in such a way as to guarantee cultural rights in a manner. First, implementation of development-oriented cultural programmes and projects for constitutionally recognised minority communities and so on. It starts with these. It is simply a matter of cultural rights, which in this case are established as individual rights, and this also guarantees the Constitution. But something else is political rights. And the resolution on the national programme for culture does not refer to the political rights suggested by Mr Jerovšek. He's talking about cultural rights. If I look at my environment, Maribor, the realization of cultural rights and cultural diversity is most evident in the fact that cultural associations are also a number of national societies. We have two Roma associations, we have Serbian, Montenegrin, Croatian, as well as a society of German-speaking women, and I don't know what. But this is guaranteed by the Constitution that they have the right to express this identity and we cannot defend it. What's that supposed to do? You know we can also have a follow-up class at school, but there has to be a big enough group to organize it. If we were to look at how many of these groups we should have in language if we were to exercise these rights because I had heard the information the last time, I think that this information went into a few decades. I don't remember him right now. That's what this is about. You don't see black where there's no black color, but it's a rainbow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you. Look, both colleagues have performed as if I want to limit cultural rights and the development of cultural identity, and this is absolutely wrong, an unfair interpretation of my words, of my acquisition. I am absolutely in favour of this, some with the German ethnic group are bound by even a state agreement, a cultural agreement. I wonder, however, my fellow Renati, a little lack of knowledge and understanding of this, as she points out, and I also know, although I am not from there, very good genetics of the Belarusian Serbs, of the Uskiks, that they are Greek-Catholic and Orthodox. If you were thinking as you are now, then eventually you would have three Serb minorities, if that were all the minority you are now referring to. Because in addition to two, as you have defined in the White Krajina, there is then another in Slovenia, immigrants from Serbia, from the first Yugoslavia forward. If we introduce this, this requirement will absolutely appear. We can't do that. These requirements, such proposals at the official level, may arise. It is necessary to go through the Constitutional Commission and everything else, not through this resolution. I'm warning you again, this is a serious matter. I see you're not taking this seriously enough. Unfortunately, it has come at the last hour, but I hope that within the groups of Members, they are only better informed and enlightened Members that they will convince you that this cannot be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u255	I give my word to Dr. Aleš Črnič. Replica has Renata Brunskole. Mrs. Brunskol, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I thank my fellow Member, Mr Jerovsk, for his teaching, but what I was talking about, as far as ethnic minorities in the White Land are concerned, I think I know them quite well. Also the area where I live, we are so-called Yugoslavia in small. And I respect this multiculturalism and everything else that has to do with it. Even in the White Land, I still have a very good separation, maybe I could tell you more that we also have a Croatian association and so on, really different people. But we are very respectful and patient. And I think it's very important. Neither do I judge colleagues and colleagues here in the National Assembly, who knows an area well or not. I just wanted to say on a case-by-case basis, because those who ever listen to us and look at us don't want to be left out here. And that's what I wanted to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. Dr. Aleš Crnitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Just once more to avoid misunderstandings. Of course, the topics that Mr Jerovšek is creating are very important topics that this country is facing and will have to face and will have to resolve. But these topics are not the subject of a national cultural programme. The Ministry of Culture does not interfere with the status issues of minorities when we talk about national minorities defined by the legislator either by constitution or by declaration or by inter-State agreements. Mr Jerovšek, you have only found that in the very text of this chapter, as you say, we use the right terms, in short, as you see fit, but in those parts of this chapter when we talk about national minorities, we also know other types of minorities. We Slovenians are sometimes a minority in our country. A religious minority is an expression we know, a sexual minority is an expression we know. And this chapter speaks of different types of minorities, including national minorities. And where we are talking about national minorities, we are using expressions that you yourself, Mr Jerovšek, have recognized as correct or, as you say, correct. So, after a thorough review, after consulting lawyers, we are convinced that such a statement in this chapter cannot possibly be preconceived for questions which are otherwise entirely on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u260	In any case, you also touch minorities, nationals, indigenouss and so on. However, consistent names are also important, because in this way, I will say again, and I will give up, implicitly introduce the possibility or introduce them, national minorities, which are a constitutional category in this country. Presumably, you're working too hard, and that's what you're holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you. This part of the debate at the time of chapter 15 in many ways recalls the debate at the time of the resolution on language policy, the national language policy programme. There, too, we had the text reviewed by the Legal and Legislative Service, did not warn us that any of the terms would have been used incorrectly, but we were warned by those other resolutions in what place. I think it's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-22-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 1. 2013, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Wednesday, 27. 11. in 2013, at 9 a.m. Thanks for tonight, good night and a nice weekend.
