ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We begin with the resumed 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr Ljubica Jelusic, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Branko Smodišek, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Jožef Horvat from 12 noon onwards. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to the 5th item of the agenda, let me remind you that four years ago the European Parliament today, 11 July, announced the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Genocide in Srebrenica. Since 2009, the National Assembly has been joining this Memorial Day, so allow me to speak a few words this time. Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Today's memorial day is, as it is said, dedicated to the memory and gift of the victims of the tragic and senseless sea, which occurred at the end of the 20th century on European soil and worse, it happened in front of the cameras, in front of the dismayed eyes of the world public and in the presence of blue helmets. There was no desperate international intervention to prevent a massacre. No one, no one protected innocent civilians, the international community was for calls for the help of deaf and blind. Europe, which has once experienced a genocide of incomprehensible dimensions in the same century, was a Holocaust, 50 years later a shameful witness to humanity's unimaginable inhumanity. Genocides that testify to the incomprehensible cruelty and horrendousness of human conduct have occurred throughout the history of mankind. Unfortunately, experience from Srebrenica 18 years ago also shows that the worst and greatest crimes are possible even in modern times, even at the threshold of a developed Europe. Srebrenica, a small, once model, multiethnic East-Bosnian city, in which life is slowly returning today, will forever be synonymous with tragedy and symbol for the worst slaughter in Europe after World War II. We can't change that sad fact. Nor can we ease the pain of memory days and dry the tears of those who have lost their loved ones without their loved ones. It is only, in fact, our duty to be in solidarity with the families, the victims of this senseless slaughter, even for our own benefit, for our future generations, that we remember each year the tragic victims of a slaughter whose only sin was their ethnic identity. May today be a memorial of all these victims of Srebrenica, and may it also serve as a reminder that hatred and prejudice today, in the 21st century, are not yet a thing of the past. They still sow evil among people, cause suffering and threaten peace, harmony and reconciliation. However, I believe that, in particular, by maintaining the memory of the victims and their families, we can, knowing that respect for equality can only be achieved by accepting diversity, and by optimistic preservation of hope in a better tomorrow, ensure that Srebrenica is never repeated and nowhere else. Let us stop fighting for peace, but let us strive for it, cherish it, and respect it. Thank you for your attention. We're moving to five. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2013 and 2014 following the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This time the Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets is short and technical. It is related to the solutions that you dealt with yesterday at the time of the 2013 budget rebalancing. Amendments to the law are largely prepared to allow for smooth implementation of the budget by the end of this year and some are editorial corrections. The key amendments introduced by the bill can be summarized into the next four points. First time. The law provides for a more flexible regulation of financial engineering or areas in which this instrument can be used. This instrument, for which the budget rebalancing provides EUR 120 million, will therefore be more accessible mainly to small and medium-sized enterprises facing difficulties in providing resources for co-financing development and investment projects and for co-financing the purchase of turnover. Another time. The budget balance provides additional European spending rights for those new projects which are highly likely to be completed by the end of this financial perspective. They are provided with an additional €26 million. In order to accelerate the absorption of these funds, the proposed law lays down the legal basis for the inclusion of such projects in the national development programme. Third time. In line with the solutions introduced by the budget rebalancing, it is necessary to redefine the maximum possible debt limit for this year. Fourth time. The obligation of indirect budgetary users to prepare a six-year report on the implementation of their financial plans is simplified. In accordance with the amended provision, indirect budgetary users will not have to prepare all six-year reports, as is the case at the end of the year, but will only submit to the competent ministry the information that is important and necessary for the annual supervision of the use of public money and for the identification of any inter-annual funding deficit. Your Honor! The Government proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed amendment to the 2013 and 2014 Budget Implementation Act be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal of the law as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr President, and a nice greeting to everyone! At its 62nd urgent meeting, on 8 July 2013, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in the context of general comments, reiterates that the regulatory content of this year's proposal also exceeds the provisions of the Public Finance Act, which lays down the general principle of budgetary law and, in the context of specific comments, points out Article 1 of the legislative proposal. On the proposal, qualified applicants tabled the following amendments: the Coalition's parliamentary groups amendments to Articles 1 and 4 and the SDS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 4. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. We have heard the reasons for the proposed amendment of the laws. In the context of a brief additional presentation of the general comments and the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service concluded by stressing that the comment submitted on the definition of investments proposed by the proposed amendment of coalition groups to Article 1 of the legislative proposal takes into account. The Committee did not discuss the solutions submitted or the amendments tabled. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted both amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups from the amendments to the draft law, which is an amendment to Articles 1 and 4 of the legislative proposal, and the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS parliamentary group to delete Article 4 of the legislative proposal. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted jointly and adopted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted to Articles 1 and 4, in accordance with Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes both those amendments, is prepared. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the amended draft law also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, a respected colleague, a respected colleague! At the time of the budget rebalancing, it is also necessary to amend the law governing the implementation of the budget, since this law governs the country's indebtedness, the extent of the guarantees and so forth. Amendments to this Act are technical support to the budget rebalancing. The new maximum possible level of indebtedness in the country in 2013 is established and the greater flexibility of the Government in identifying projects to draw on the European Union’s cohesion funds is determined. Article 5 amends the preparation of the six-year report of indirect budget users – municipalities, the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and the PPIZ, which greatly simplifies work and limits it to the necessary part from which possible derogations from the route can be found. It is also more reasonable when a remedial programme should be prepared. The balance sheet also provided 120 million for the purpose of carrying out financial engineering through the SID of the bank. This will provide small and medium-sized enterprises with hundreds of millions of funds for investments and other assets, as set out in this Act. This is an important step that we want to help the economy recover as soon as possible. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 1013 and 2014. As has already been said, this is a parallel document to be adopted with the budget rebalancing. Unfortunately, in these months we have carried out this act in two acts. First of all, it was a single amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which primarily loosened the area of salaries in the state administration and also the possibility of redistribution. Today, we are also seeing a second part of the ZIPR, as we call it in this short version, in parallel with the adoption of the balance. This is a document whose first aim is to simplify and encourage the drawing of European funds from this financial perspective, which is the right direction. In fact, it will be based on a very lively process when projects capable of implementation are included in the development programme plan on the basis of final calls. In this part, I think it is also right for the Government to have as many European projects as possible operationally in this second half of 2013, this possibility of including them in the development programme plan. In other elements, it is a financial part where, as we know, we increase the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the decision taken on the substantial recapitalisation of Slovenian banking institutions, and in the third part it is also about certain financial instruments when economic measures are implemented through the SID bank. As far as debt is concerned, this is unfortunately the cruel reality that we know in the Slovenian space that there is a need for even greater debt in Slovenia than was envisaged for the resolution of the banking system. Therefore, in this part, I do not think there are any particular reasons why we should be able to oppose this matter. As far as these financial instruments are concerned, we are also given a certain fear that these guarantees will not turn into loans relatively quickly into public debt. I hope that the executors who will do this will have a happy hand and also strong criteria that will not happen in the future. In the Slovenian People's Party, we basically oppose the law on budget rebalancing. As far as this parallel law is concerned, we do not see any special reasons to oppose it, nor do we intend to support it. Thus, the Slovenian People's Party will not oppose the adoption of this law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, fellow Members, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! In opening, I should like to say that Members of the New Slovenia Group are not going to support the proposed amendments and additions to the Budget Implementation Act. We are concerned about the increase in our country's permissible debt in this year's financial year. The proposed amendment of this law increases the permissible debt by up to one billion, i.e. from €3 billion to €4 billion. These funds for the recapitalisation of banks are already the third in line during the crisis, and the burden of the wrong business decisions of the administrations and supervisory committees in state banks is on taxpayers. In Novi Slovenija we oppose this. Additional debt in foreign markets is costly, too costly for Slovenia as a country in a severe economic and financial crisis. In the last month, we are approaching the critical limit of 7% again. An ever-increasing proportion of budget expenditure is intended to pay interest and, as a result, fewer and fewer resources can be allocated to investments. The increased budget deficit is trying to reduce the government by increasing the tax burden on the population as well. Instead of the measures for the start-up of the economy announced by the current government as one of its priorities, it is taking measures that are already an additional soul to the already weak and over-indebted economy. If we look at this year's forecasts of the Bank of Slovenia, which are even worse than the forecast of Umar and the European Commission, we can be concerned about the fate of our country. Let's take a look at some of these predictions. First time. In 2013, the public deficit will rise from 4% last year to 7.9%, with bank recovery measures having the greatest impact on the rise of this deficit. Another time. The fall of gross domestic product will reach 5% in 2013. Third time. Domestic demand is declining by 5.4% in the first quarter. And the fourth time. The unemployment rate in the country was 11.7% in the first quarter. What is the way out of this situation? At the end of May, the European Commission extended Slovenia's deadline to address the surplus public deficit until 2015 and did not initiate a procedure to address macroeconomic imbalances. We have been given an additional opportunity to resolve public financial imbalances ourselves, but the government's public financial measures so far show that it has not been able to take advantage of these opportunities. The warnings received a few days ago by the European Commission are serious. The government obviously doesn't want to hear them. With measures, particularly in the area of bank recovery, there was no real structural action on the expenditure side. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the current government, simply put it, has missed a course to address the public financial deficit. Members of the New Slovenia Group The draft law on amending and supplementing the 2013 and 2014 Budget Implementation Act will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Renata Brunskole will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Representative of the Ministry of Finance, Dear Fellows and Fellows! The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a technical law, as only the name indicates and as such enables the implementation of the budget. It is a condition for the submission of the budget to the National Assembly to be accompanied by amendments to the rules supporting individual reduced budget lines or rights. The Public Finance Act, in Article 40, provides that if during the financial year new budgetary commitments or changes in economic developments are to increase expenditure or reduce budget receipts, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, must suspend the implementation of the budget and also that, if the budget cannot be balanced during the implementation of the measures temporarily suspending the implementation of the budget, the Government must propose a budget rebalancing no later than 15 days before the deadline for suspending the implementation of the budget. Yesterday, both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State at the Ministry spoke about this. In view of the legal nature of the State budget, it is also necessary for the State budget to amend the law governing the implementation of the budget as that law regulates the extent of the State's indebtedness, the extent of the State's guarantees and the extent of the public sector's indebtedness at state level. The main solutions to the proposed law on the implementation of the budget are: promoting the absorption of European funds from the current financial perspective; more flexible arrangements for the promotion of the small and medium economy in the context of financial engineering; removing bureaucratic barriers in the preparation of six-year reports by indirect budget users; and the smooth implementation of the country's budget; the introduction and definition of new concepts; investment; and operating resources. Unlike some of the positions already presented today, both today and yesterday, which will not support the rebalancing and the law on budget implementation, we, the representatives of the coalition, must support them and we will support them because we want to find our way from the crisis of Slovenia. As we announced yesterday, in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will support the proposal for a budget rebalancing. This also means that we will support its key part, this is the draft law on the implementation of the 2013 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budget, mainly for one reason. Due to an increase of around €900 million in the debt quota for this year. It is clear from the explanation of the law that this additional quota is for the purposes of recapitalisation of banks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the continued recapitalisation of banks without the prior clearance of the balance sheets or the transfer of claims to a bad bank or bank management company is a bad solution and means the re-lease of tax money into a bottomless bag. So far, recapitalisation, whether initiated by the Bank of Slovenia or by the State, has only caused an even greater problem for these banks and only an even greater public debt. I don't think it's wise to continue this way and it's actually suicidal, given the increasing burden that taxpayers have. Any further indebtedness of this country – that is, we have already come to about 20 billion euros in debt – is a huge burden for future generations, those taxpayers who are just coming after us, that is, those of our children. If I refer here to the Prime Minister's statement that young people are our perspective, our opportunity, then we must also seriously consider any additional indebtedness of this country. What exactly do we propose as a substitute? We propose an accelerated transfer of claims to the company to manage bank claims and recapitalisation by purchases from the country's withdrawal from the economy. I believe that this is more the right path than a further debt. In fact, I fear that the list of 15 companies born by this coalition, which is supposed to be the first step and the basis of the withdrawal of the country from the economy, is more or less dead on paper, as the Ministry of Finance or the Government does not count on any income from this title this year. If these divestment procedures were to be taken seriously, they could also have a financial recovery already this year and solve these problems of financing the budget for this year, as well as these recapitalisations with purchases. It is not, however, that we continue to be in debt at relatively high interest rates and thus burden future generations, as I have already said. And the problem is, if we add up a little bit, we can figure out the following. At the annual level, we already have €800 million or €820 million in interest on the loans rented by this country. 820 million, that is more than 10% of the budget's revenue. Then we have about 20 billion euros in debt, and if we pay it back in 20 years, it means that we have to pay an additional billion euros each year to pay off the loans we have already rented without any debt. Thus, if I draw the line, about a billion 800 million are to be provided annually in some way to service and repay the loans already hired. Not to mention at all that the Government intends to deal with relatively high deficits in the future, and new commitments will be needed. A billion €800 million is more than 20 and that is about 25% of the budget's revenue. From this you can see how we are still creditable in this country, given the comparison of the creditworthiness of natural persons. I think that this is a major problem for us, so any further debt in this House should be dealt with separately, not just in the package of the law on the implementation of the budget. We should look for all other options so that there is no additional debt. I said one, it's a possibility to recapitalize with purchases. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support such an increase in the extent of the country's indebtedness.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u16	Respected and respected! The law on budget implementation brings some important innovations. First of all, let me mention the changes in the definition of spending rights, namely the power of the Government to complement the development programme plan for those projects for which funding from the current financial perspective would make sense. This measure significantly enhances the ability of the State to include projects that can be completed until the end of this financial perspective by the end of 2013, so that the projects can start before 31. 12. 2013 and that the last costs in relation to these projects occur before 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this way, the Government is significantly increasing the ability, at the proposal of the managing authorities, to use as much of the untapped funds as possible from the current financial perspective. Furthermore, funding of €120 million is provided in the balance sheet for the implementation of financial engineering. This is a measure by which the State promotes technological development projects in these companies, thus providing part of the means to carry out these projects. While this financial engineering is regulated by the Public Finance Act, the proposed provision of the Budget Implementation Act broadens the purpose of enabling this instrument not only to finance technological development projects but also to finance development and investment projects and assets. This introduces a temporary solution that will offer companies a way out of a financial spasm resulting from the banking market situation. Social Democrats believe that the solutions proposed are also an important step towards financing businesses. We believe, however, that the Government should also include a guarantee scheme for both small and medium-sized enterprises. The Budget Implementation Act also increases the scope of the authorised debt for a poor billion euros. This is due to yesterday's rich debate on this subject. In this brief position, I would not like to summarize all the arguments for this, but the fact is that we have a problem in the banking system and that it is high time to solve it. It is being resolved in the manner proposed by the previous government. We Social Democrats were then opposed by the combination of these measures. Under the Act on strengthening the stability of banks, the combined application of various measures, such as the purchase of bad claims, i.e. their repayment to a bad bank, as well as the possibility of recapitalisation of banks, is possible. I think the problem is so big, in fact, we've all tolerated it together for too long, and it needs to be severed. In this respect, the Social Democrats are absolutely in favour of the proposed recapitalisation. In doing so, the sources of indebtedness will also cover other important tasks which were not foreseen and duly taken into account when preparing the budget for this year. On the basis of all of this, the Social Democrats will be supported by the Budget Implementation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Does anyone want to discuss it? I invite you to report for discussion. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u18	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed deleting this 900 million-dollar increase in the debt quota for this year, namely, we are only talking about 2013. I believe that if the recapitalisation of banks and the need for these additional EUR 900 million were to take place this year, of course, following the transfer of bad claims to a bad bank, we still have time to decide in Parliament and seriously address this issue alone. In explanation, the government states that this 900 million euro is needed for the recapitalisation of banks. And I wonder when the government intends to recapitalise banks, or before or after transferring bad claims to the Company for the Management of Bad Claims of Banks. If you intend to do so before this, we strongly oppose this because we believe that this repetition is a bad practice that leads to the extremely untransparent use of tax money. We therefore believe that there is sufficient time to discuss this issue in the autumn or winter months of this year if there is a need for recapitalisation with these 900 million euros. By no means would we want to open up these additional quotas in stock and thus give the government a free way to burden the current and, above all, future generations of taxpayers. That is why we have tabled an amendment to place this debt quota at the level it has so far been, without these additional EUR 900 million, because we believe that any further indebtedness of this country is indeed a suicide and has actually invited the troikas to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. The representative of the Government, State Secretary Mag, also took the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the proposed amendment, I would like to say that the Government does not accept it. As I have already explained at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the text of the law is specifically related to the budget rebalancing in this article. In order to ensure the financing of this year's budget, as foreseen, the Implementation Act should also be amended in accordance with the amendments passed on to the balance sheet. In the event that the proposed amendment is adopted, we are in a very strange situation where, assuming that the rebalancing is confirmed in the proposed text, it does not comply with the law determining what the maximum amount of debt is this year. As far as alternative solutions are concerned. The recapitalisation with the purchases was proposed. Yesterday we discussed why the budget does not yet provide for revenue from purchases from the sale of state property. The sales process has begun. They cannot be expected to be completed this year, as this is not a matter of simple procedures. Therefore, it would be unrealistic to expect that we will be able to provide appropriate procedures to this extent already this year. As far as accelerating the transfer of bad claims to the Banks Claims Management Company is concerned, I must say that the Ministry here is fully engaged and is carrying out those procedures that are necessary at the maximum possible speed. In this process, however, it is also necessary to take into account the measures to be taken or adopted by the European Commission in this context in terms of monitoring or control of possible state aid. Unfortunately, we do not have a direct influence on part of the duration of this procedure. As for the time when the recapitalisation will take place. For the two banks, the Banks Assembly has already adopted decisions approving the capital increase and the question is, in view of the needs to be demonstrated by the end of this year, when these recapitalisations will also be carried out, in particular, depending on how the transfer of claims to the DUTB will continue. But this is about related activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss Article 4? Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you. Respected and respected! Allow me to give a little wider explanation of my views on the issue. Colleagues from the opposition presented an interesting alternative model. Obviously, we agree that banks need to be rehabilitated. Earlier it was said that this should be done in a way that, by what we create through the sale of state property, it is said in this National Assembly that a confirmed list of fifteen companies should be used for recapitalisation. I agree with the conclusion that privatisation procedures will be carried out, especially if we want them to be carried out in a fair manner, in a manner that will not show too much sting and the need of the seller to privatise this property, procedures that will maximize the proceeds of purchases. If we sell this overnight and create an additional systemic need for haste, of course, we are easy targets for a cheap undervalued way of privatising these companies. That's the first problem. Another time. It is impossible to assess when, in fact, it will be possible to secure a financial gain from privatisation. As we can see in the general part of the budget, while the revenues from the sale of assets are increasing this year in view of the budget adopted. Nevertheless, the volume of these purchases is still relatively small, and there is no promise from this point of view that we can solve the problem in banks quickly enough. We've been delaying this problem for too long. Let us remember that in 2009 some of us advocated a more radical recapitalisation of systemic banks. At that time, recapitalisation occurred to a slightly smaller extent, in any case too low in terms of the extent of the problem. If we could then gather enough political will to solve the problem, perhaps today would not be a problem or be relatively smaller, because we would then give the banking system enough oxygen to solve the problem of inherited investments. Once again, I would like to repeat the thesis, which I repeat several times in this National Assembly. Not every investment is always a bad investment. If it is properly managed, the investment that is today poor can also become remunerated tomorrow, i.e. a good investment. However, if we do not manage the investment, a good investment can quickly become a bad investment. And the volume of bad investments in 2009 in the Slovenian banking system is not the same as the volume of bad investments this year. It's inappropriately large today. Also because we did not all solve the problem together in time. Why is bank resolution important? Because banks are the blood system of our economy. We see that Slovenian companies have extremely serious difficulties in accessing funding sources, both because of their own over-indebtedness and because of the problem we have in banks. I understand that the issue of bank resolution is very unpopular. That people often don't see the point of wanting to fill a bag that doesn't seem to have a bottom. And there is no bottom if we continue to tolerate political recruitment in the most important companies in the country. Yesterday there was the resignation of Dr. Otmar Zorn as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society. I don't know gentlemen, and I don't know all the backgrounds. However, I know that in this National Assembly at a time since my client co-formed the government majority in this House and in this mandate, I have repeatedly pointed out that I do not agree with the re-establishment of the political influence in the recruitment of companies. It seems to me that this is a departure from the commitments we made, so that recruitment in the most important companies will be in investments where the country has its share, politically and professionally, and will follow appropriate accreditation procedures. And in this respect, this retreat is a disappointment to me. And I understand him and his reasons. However, I would like to invite him, because by his resignation, he has shown the necessary tenacity to withdraw this withdrawal and to try to fight together with all those who sincerely think about the concept of State property management. I would like to inform all those who are recruiting that my influence in this government is about 2% in terms of parliamentary weight, and in this Parliament a good percentage. I say that, with this 2% of my influence and a percentage of my influence in Parliament, no one can politically recruit. And I call on all Members and Members to deny legitimacy to those who do so – if they have my client's membership card or any other card. I think we need to understand that the process of excessive political influence on the management of companies in Slovenia has caused tremendous economic damage not to individual companies, but in the national economic view, and this process must be decisively halted. Therefore, the scope of the debt is meaningful because the problem needs to be solved. Another year of waiting and delaying the problem is reckless. Most of these national councils have created the will to resolve part of the problem in the banking system by paying off bad claims to a bad bank. This process obviously has a problem. There are problems at exactly the point where last year's Social Democrats critically assessed the law on strengthening the stability of banks and the intention of a bad bank, because it opens up too much room for moral gambling, the danger of damaging state and public property and, on the other hand, the benefit of private owners. In this respect, it should be noted that this is one of the key processes. I'm a political realist. I understand that this process is going on, but obviously it is going to be overpriority and that it is not willing here to set the right value. I already pointed out yesterday that one of our colleagues, a member of the National Assembly, is also the chairman of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company. In my opinion, despite the fact that the Banks Stability Act has suspended the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption in relation to non-executive directors in the company of bank debt management, there is no doubt that there is a conflict of interest here and that is why Mr Andrej Šircelj would have to decide whether he would run the chair of the Board of Directors in a bad bank or continue to serve as a Member of the National Assembly. Each of us, colleagues and colleagues, is prohibited from being a member of the Supervisory Board in a public or private undertaking. To each of us. Especially [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u23	Mr Frangež, I am sorry to interrupt, but we are in the law on the implementation of the budget and whether someone may be a member of the body of any company, I suggest we try to do something else or when we have this item on the agenda if this happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u24	Dear President, does that mean I've been taken from me?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u25	No, you have the floor. I'm just warning you to focus on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u26	Look, Mr President, I'm talking about transfer of claims. Mr Vizjak also spoke about the transfer of claims. And it is to me, given that the scope of the debt is intended to solve the problem [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u27	all in accordance with the amendment [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u28	which is inseparably linked to the transfer of banks. [[...]] However, we have certain fears about the transfer of bad investments. These fears, however, are very much linked to the evaluation and the very wide scope of possible irregularities and damage to state property that may arise in this process. I want to be in full faith, in the confidence that this process will be carried out in an appropriate manner. That is also how I understand the warnings of the European Commission. That's why it's an important process. The National Assembly must ensure that it does not have a conflict of interest. And if I sum it up, it is forbidden for each of us to be a member of the supervisory board of a system-widely irrelevant company. Here, however, the conflict of interests between the Member and the surface of all things is tolerated to members of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and to serve as Chairman of the Management Board of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. I believe that there is an explicit case of conflict of interest also because the law on strengthening the stability of banks, even though it has suspended the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption in this matter, has not co-existed the law on Members. And I say, inter alia, that the Member is prohibited from being a member of the supervisory authority in an economic society. In this case, the Governing Board is, in view of the fact that a single management system has been chosen for the bank’s claim management company, there is no doubt that the supervisory authority of that company, in which management rights are also combined, is not only supervision. In this respect, therefore, the competence of this body is significantly greater than that of the Supervisory Board of the Economic Society alone. That is why I call for this conflict of interest to be resolved as soon as possible. I believe that this need is felt by Mr. Shirtzelj himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. However, as regards time, I think that we will also be able to correct or take into account the time spent, so that 13 minutes and 48 seconds remain available so that there will be no dilemma regarding further discussions. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 4. I'd like to invite you to your statement. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I agree with both valued colleagues, we must not sell in the joints, but at the same time this must not be an excuse for unnecessary squirming in sales. So, I hope that we will do this as soon as possible, but certainly we must not sell it in our joints or sell it out, as some in this National Assembly like to say. I absolutely agree that the recapitalisation of banks makes sense only after the bad claims have been transferred to a bad bank. Here I would add another matter, and immediately we must approach the sale of these banks and resolve this problem for all eternity, which is the problem of taxpayers. It is said that first the transfer to a bad bank, then the minimum recapitalisation and then the sale of these banks. This is the only way we're going to solve this problem that's been bothering us for years. While good governance is a good goal, we have discussed this a lot, and we will discuss it a lot, but this is not the subject of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! We have tabled this amendment in the parliamentary group for several reasons. First of all, the problem of this additional debt for almost a billion euros this year is unknown how and how public finances will be consolidated under these assumptions. The path taken by the budget rebalancing is moving us away from this goal. The government of Alenka Bratusek is increasing these scissors from billions to 550 million euros this year. So it takes the exact opposite path, as the government of Janez Janša took in 2012, when the scissors set up with the budget adopted by the Pahor government in 2011 were reduced by EUR 2 billion 300 million to a billion and EUR 100 million. And that's how the 2012 budget was realized. Thus, if the scale of these scissors was reduced by EUR 200 million in 2012, then there is no reason to reopen this gap in 2013 by more than half a billion euros. And there is no reason for ZIP to introduce an additional debt of almost a billion euros. None. Now there's something else about history, because there's been a lot of talk about it, too, by one of my predecessors. What would happen if it was? In 2009, in the spring of 2009, when the then Pahor's government came with the first unfortunate budget rebalancing in the National Assembly, when this increase in scissors started, which increased the debt of the state budget by two times in three years, from 8 billion at the end of 2008, to 16.9 billion euros at the end of 2011, which is why the country has to pay almost one billion euros a year instead of 352 million euros a year for interest, as it paid in 2008. At that time, in the spring of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed to deal seriously with a problem that was already very deep at the time, and since then it has deepened, it is said, with the establishment of a bad bank and the rehabilitation of inadequate bank deposits, particularly the largest state bank. At that time, you strongly opposed some who are still sitting in the National Assembly. If we had made that move at the time, the largest state bank and probably other banks would have been rehabilitated by now, they would not have been so severely affected by the economic downturn because the banks would have previously been healthy and would have served both the economy and the population. Thus, during all this period, we have a walking economic activity, a decline in economic growth, a smaller social product and, on the other hand, an ever-increasing commitment made by the State budget to service this increased debt, which is also largely due to the fact that banks have not been rehabilitated in time. And during all this period, a huge amount of funding was earmarked for such or other recapitalisations, both for the New Ljubljana Bank and for the New KBM. And not just these banks, remember the recapitalisation of Adrie Airways and a number of other cases where all these funds are lost. The recapitalisation of the New KBM, which was carried out by three state-owned companies, post offices and two energy companies, amounting to €48 million, is today worth €3 million. That's all we have in common. Not to mention the New Ljubljana Bank, where these recapitalisations amounted to over EUR 200 million. And we saw how valuable this bank is today – a foreign partner sold it at the price of EUR 1 per share of the country. At a time when real moves had to be made, these moves were not taken, nor were many others. If, in the past, telecoms were sold under significantly different conditions, they would probably have less problems than we have today. And it will never be possible to reach such a price as it would then be possible to achieve. There is something similar with Mercator and many other companies. The easiest thing to do is to come to the National Assembly and talk about how it is necessary to provide funds for banks to be able to recover from tax money. In the end, however, this account will have to be paid. And who's gonna pay for it? Who's gonna pay this bill? Will it be paid by those who have drawn more than 10 million from these banks, some even 100 million loans without adequate insurance? Obviously not, for even part of the policy that sits in the National Assembly today, most of the ruling coalition is infected with this problem. Mr Jankovic publicly acknowledged on television that he had mediated over €115 million in loans from the New Ljubljana Bank and other banks. When will these 115 million euros be returned for the Contingents? Never. Maybe 5 million will be returned, not more than 10. Who's gonna pay the difference? People, through taxes, through higher taxes – due to such recapitalisations as we are tracking through this increase in the debt in ZIPR by almost a billion euros. What the Secretary of State has previously said is that there are some formal reasons why this amendment cannot be supported, this is not true. If there is a disagreement, if the amendment is adopted, this disagreement will be settled in a formal procedure that is known and has been tested several times in this House, so that there are no reservations about these formal fears. However, we believe that things need to be stopped here, because there is no need for this additional debt spiral to open up and that such an enormous debt is already increasing. I asked the Minister of Finance a week ago because I saw an article in the media about how this money is also being dispersed by the largest state banks for some parties, half private, but it is not worth not knowing what amounts, it is said that there the employees of some NLB subsidiary rented two or three sailing boats on the coast and drank for two days, ate, slept, drove by sea, and it is called team building, it is said to have been strengthened and developed in their mission. And you know what kind of deal I got on this? Let me ask the bank what it's like for him not to be able to give me that answer. He didn't even give me an answer, because, before that, he was a minister, he was employed by a bank when he was involved in such a growth-enhancing project. I didn't even get that answer. It is true that the people, because representatives of the people are supposed to be sitting here, do not have the right to receive an answer, how and for what purposes their billions of euros of money has been spent, which has been allocated to this bank from the state budget in recent years. He has no right to receive that answer. At the same time, these people are expected to support the recapitalisation of state banks, which apparently have been under-managed all these years, but not only because the wrong people have been appointed to the right places, especially because some policies that have generated their behaviour have obviously worked in the background of these people, and if they have not followed this policy, they have had to leave. One such case occurred in the previous term, and one such case is now taking place in these days. My friend Frangez warned him. Obviously, the Social Democrats are also not satisfied with Jankovich's human resources policy. However, if this is true, something will have to be done, something concrete, or else you will take greater responsibility for all the decisions that will be taken in this national assembly on behalf of this coalition. I think it's even bigger. Because if you are aware of the problem and do nothing, you are more agreeable than those who push their heads into the sand and follow some political game of the largest coalition party. Obviously, Mr Zoran, President of the Court, resigned because inadequate staffing is also taking place at the largest NLB State Bank. And as a result of these inadequate human resources solutions, these decisions that must be taken or taken by you in this national assembly are always new and new State-owned tax means to give relief to those who do not carry out their duties and the role they should have when they are appointed to these places. We strongly oppose such behaviour, strongly oppose it, and propose that the coalition be also at this point of the idea. It's just some symbolic point of fracture. If this does not happen, and if the additional burden on all taxpayers for an additional billion euros is adopted in ZIP, without knowing how and how this procedure will end with the rehabilitation of banks in general and what will ultimately be the result, this is a very irresponsible effort and leads us to some irresponsible spiral of debt from which there will be no further way back. For this debt, which has risen to over €20 billion in five years since the end of 2008, at the end of the first Janša government, and which only affects us annually to pay off a tenth of the budget's revenue, means that by the end of this mandate, this spiral will have increased to €26 billion or even €30 billion by the end of 2015. This is an amount that can no longer be controlled. It could be controlled if our social product were twice as big as it is today, if it were 70 billion. But he's not here. It's a modest 35 billion. And what we create does not allow all these obligations to be serviced. Especially not when we are trapped in a time component that is not the most favourable for the privatisation of state property and that we need to be careful and wise at this point so that we do not do twice the wrong. It is said that oversold sales and, on the other hand, sold out these state banks and all the others, from which we will never get back a dozen of what these banks, after such or other political ties, placed politically compatible companies or individuals. So much of this problem is political recruitment, which Mr Frangež also mentioned. Probably the biggest part. Since this negative human resources selection would not exist, many of the problems we are facing today would be spared. With regard to the conflict of interest that has been mentioned, allow me to say more about it. I think there is a much greater conflict of interest in those who are sitting in this Parliament and who are representatives of that political group whose leader has publicly said that he has provided EUR 115 million of money from the state bank. There's a much bigger conflict of interest there. By this logic, we should empty half of this House. Of course not. But it would be right, at least we would expect something to happen in these cases, where there are 100 million euros and more. Not that there are now some cases of public excusing their existence, or their behaviour, which, of course, may be problematic, but they are significantly less problematic than those of which there has been no procedure in recent years and obviously will not be in the coming years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are against the fact that the country still has an additional debt of almost a billion euros. We are also against this because this money is supposed to be intended to fill a hole that will never be filled if we treat it as it is being treated today and as it has been treated in past years. And we are against this, and we have not received an answer at the time of the rebalancing, how, when and how public finances will be recovered. With the increase in scissors, the gap between income and expenditure, this recovery cannot be expected. The first time was set up last year, when Janša’s government reduced the deficit from two billion 300 with a balance to a billion hundred, and this path should continue this year. Even if the continuations were only at a symbolic level and the government of Alenka Bratušek said, we will reduce the deficit from the projected billion to 900 million euros. That should do it, too. But the path that is now set aside is wrong. I suggest that even in the coalition, at least in the part where you don't think this path is right, you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'd like to invite you to your statement. We've counted everything well, so the whole debate is taken into account. The first one has the word, Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u34	Let me begin by saying that we support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian People's Party. It is interesting that in these two days when we discussed the key documents, it is said about the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the rebalancing for this year and now the parallel document of ZIPR, that crucial debate came to my attention only today, which I also wanted to encourage yesterday by presenting the graphs where I wanted to frame the problem of this year's rebalancing in a slightly broader framework than the conflict between Alenka Bratušek and Janšev's government, because it was also from the words of the prime minister that I wanted to understand yesterday as a key content of the justification for the rebalancing. Yesterday I myself pointed out that we are actually talking in 2013 about a significantly bigger thing than just throwing some numbers where we would correct Umar's predictions, but that we are talking about whether we will be following key policies in the right direction or going uncritically on the same path as in Slovenia in the past, and also making similar mistakes as we have done in the past. The document we are amending today was last September, October. He then went into Parliament and was adopted in early December. This is the document on the implementation of the budget. At the same time, two key documents that have already been mentioned have been agreed at the same time, namely the so-called bad bank project, the Bad Claims Company and the Slovenian State Holding project, in which we would finally try to accept in Slovenia that the management of state assets, the sale of state assets should be put in the hands of experts, the removal of policy from this space and, indeed, on the basis of the key political decisions taken in Parliament, the issue put into the hands of professional people and the best possible way to get out of this difficult situation. It's almost a year now what we said last year. We know what was going on in the second half of last year – from the fact that summer was used to try to harmonise legislation, then at the last minute at midnight, the last day of the referendum was being tabled. And interestingly, even at the time when we spoke most intensively about the bad bank, we talked about the end of giving uncontrolled money through recapitalisation, but that banks must finally put accounts in Slovenia, put these bad contracts on the table, understand also the left and right signatory, as well as whom to call for responsibility, started the interesting movement in Slovenia, the most characterised or most famous at the time of the budget rebalancing last year under this "gotof si" magazine, which eventually expanded into a broader activity that ultimately resulted in the collapse of the government in all other parallel things. One year is almost behind us, but we are still talking about how this cancer will be removed from the Slovenian economy. And now we're back to the old ways and we agree to put money into banks by recapitalisation, and on the other hand, we still don't have a starting or very slowly starting process of a bad bank that should make these key cuts. Today, something has already been said here about the state of the banks. I must say that I am also surprised by the information I have received in recent days, as well as by the new management of the New Ljubljana Bank, that parties and some team building on the Slovenian coast have already been mentioned today, to the point that the bank's director was celebrated first by trying to buy a expensive limousine, and that information about the very strong advisory contracts that are still going on inside this bank is also coming, abroad, where it is also very interesting, to use the strange term "Kadrovski ringelšpil" is happening, within which it is also very expensive to pay what is being achieved. Problems regarding political personnel have been highlighted here today. I'm last year, and I'm going to speak in self-critical language about the government in which I participated, and I'm going to object. To a certain extent, I've been given some criticism about this as well. However, as I hear and see, and now read from newspapers, nothing stops Slovenian politics from giving up key staff within, if you want, the banking system, within the insurance system, within energy, within telecommunications companies. It is very interesting that there is no severe drainage in any manufacturing industry and so on, but it is obvious that the appetite of Slovenian politics is once again to half the work where the sales of this property are mainly concerned and where there may still be some small accumulation in the Slovenian economy. This is the key message that is very wrong for me and we will give it to you before we go on, I think I can say calmly, a well-deserved holiday for Members and Members of Parliament and the Government as well. That's what I'm afraid of. I fear that because of this kind of work we are doing now, we will receive this mistrust in the wider domestic space and, above all, in the autumn months, in the banking world, which will largely shape our future in the coming years. Therefore, once again, we support this amendment to really discuss this key point when the well-known process of bank rehabilitation, when the two-copiers can get an account on the table, and we will see how much money is needed for how much we will give to recapitalise them, what this will mean, and ultimately, what will be the account of those who, after an unnecessary period of crisis, have already deepened in this crisis with their unusual actions, which have nothing to do with the economy, but have nothing to do with the economy, but have to do with how, as soon as possible, themselves and with a group of passengers, to enrich and try to become the owner. This has buried us in this economy, not the general economic crisis. Those companies that had a moderate policy that knew what they were doing, which did not over-indebted themselves to make up for it, were also able to respond to the crisis that had arisen. But because those who didn't know how to do it drowned the banking system with the assistance of the people in the banks. An interesting information will probably also be in the New Credit Bank, how many loans have been granted in the bank, despite the negative opinion of the credit committee on those business plans. And when the taxpayers see this, I think it will be easier to reach an agreement on how we will rehabilitate these banks and how we will lead them in the future, and above all that these unscrupulous practices will not be repeated in the future, because otherwise I really do not know where this Slovenian boat is sinking. Once again, we support this amendment that this crucial process that needs to be done, the cleansing of these nebulos, these nonsensees that have been done in the last, I don't know, five, eight years, will be done in a public and transparent manner. And those who are responsible to pay their bills.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u36	First of all, history. By the way, I recommend an article by Jelka Zupanič in today's Evening. It starts with "Dear Members." I recommend we all read it together. We are constantly going into history because we have two different interpretations: whether the problem began in 2009, as you say, or whether it started a little earlier, let's say in 2004, when there were actually great imbalances in our economy, the national economy. In doing so, let me remind you that at a time when the country and our economy have fully grown the biggest leap in gross external debt, which has jumped for more than 15 years of autonomy, they have cancelled all supervisory institutions and at the top of it all, that the government with pro-cyclical policy has actually encouraged overheating the economy. Well, the method of financing and the change in the building of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is an exclusive example of such pro-cyclical policies. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u37	Excuse me, Mr. Frangež has the floor. He's talking about borrowing. And all these processes he mentioned are actually related to this, so please allow him to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. But I understand that it upsets some. They should be even more upset by the following. And that's my second point. When some of you are talking about the recapitalisation of the New KBM by some state-owned companies, I must tell you that I participated in the Committee on Finance, and I would probably do something different today. And even then, I wasn't entirely nimble and happy to go, I'll say, in that way recapitalisation. However, the threat of a certain hostile takeover of this bank seemed real enough to me to prevent it at that time. But while you accuse us of doing so in a way that is certainly not exemplary for modern and correct corporate governance of state property, remember that you performed the same operation in the government before that. It was, however, a recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank at its three-time book value, where some important state-owned companies had to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank through the public authorities' decisions such as the Committee on Finance. So it's the same case. And while you accuse us of this at the recapitalisation of the New KBM, remember that you have done the same in the event of the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. And I really want to know if Andrej Vizjak, then economic minister, was one of the phone calls I mentioned earlier. Let me just get this over with, colleague Bogovich, I actually appreciate you. I think you're a broken man, and we've been working together for a while now, and I must say, I don't have any problems with you. Please, however, do not label the process that started with the uprisings in Maribor with such words. As I understand it myself, you, as President of the Slovenian People's Party, have distanced yourself from the processes that led to this uprising movement and with the clearance of the status of Slovenian banks, have nothing to do but to deal with the corruption of the then influential member of your party. I understand that you have distanced yourself from this, and I suggest that all those who fought in the streets and squares of Maribor to return to the right direction also apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. The replica has a mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u40	Your Honor! The more our Commissioner Frangež shoots others in such an aggressive way, the more he sees himself in some personal predicament, when he no longer finds an argument to justify what his coalition is doing. That's symptomatic of him. But the bigger problem is, if you use falsehoods or deceptions, I'll just give them something. Mr Frangež said that the external debt increased during the period of the great conjuncture. See, it should be pointed out that at the time only one debt is increased, this is the private sector's debt, the right of legal persons, because they recognized their development ambitions at the time of the merger, the money was too low, as the regulator of Banka Slovenije did not sufficiently block commercial banks in terms of approval and interest rates and in terms of credit policy, let's say, banks were too exposed. But we're talking about the private sector. But for the private sector, the private sector also settles debts, not the state. And when it comes to external debt, it's probably a mix between what taxpayers are going to have to do, and today we're talking about this amendment, but not about what some private firm is in charge of, let's say, anyone, because this company is going to end up infamous and it's not going to be saved by taxpayers, except, of course, this stupid exposure to the banks of these companies, which is more bank responsibility. And it is right that a commission has been set up to see which banks and which board presidents are signed under these impossible credit agreements. This is the first intervention. The second intervention is that Mr Frangež mentioned the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and compared it with the recapitalisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank. That's a complete fabrication, what he said. The Anti-Corruption Commission also found at the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor that it was the pressure of prominent government members to recapitalise the NKBM. In particular, Klemenčice's committee here was probably thinking of a former finance minister. Here were specific e-mails, a concrete correspondence that state-owned companies that were not owners of NKBM had to recapitalise NKBM. In the event of the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, it was recapitalised by existing owners, existing owners of the New Ljubljana Bank. If the new Ljubljana Bank is recapitalised by existing owners, it is a completely different situation than that energy companies, postal companies and others who have no connection must recapitalise the NKBM. So, respectable ones, let us be honest and talk about things the way they are, but not the way they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u42	To clarify and clarify what I said and also what I meant, and perhaps some more, because we are in this debate and also explain it with a replica. First time. In the Slovenian People's Party, we did not have any difficulties in defining ourselves to the works that happened in Maribor and also to the visible member of our party. The biggest mayor of our party was ruled out by the Slovenian People's Party authorities at a time when we estimated that he should make a politically correct move, withdraw from the situation and leave the situation in view of the events that took place at that time. However, I have spoken in a broader context and even today the Slovenian People's Party has the same policy and attitude towards Maribor's policy. But I was talking about bigger things. Last year's experience, where I have to say that, as Minister, I had a very difficult task, the first time we worked together to prepare measures for the Public Finance Balance Act, the so-called ZUJF, where we looked for where we could make savings in the state budget in the most normal way, and then, in the end, we also integrate that into the budget's rebalancing. This is also my main observation of your procedure this year, my colleagues. You first adopted a union agreement, changed the ZIPRO, which has changed certain things, and now we are talking about a budget where you simply sum up how much money is needed and for that you increase the debt. No action, the Prime Minister said, will be taken. And apparently he's gone, and it's the easiest thing to do to increase this assignment. But to get back to basic thought. At a time when we were able to reach agreement with the social partners on this law to balance public finances against the opposition at the time, and finally to achieve that most of those affected, including those who agreed or took over part of their burden, we concluded our first phase. And in the second phase that our government went through, it then focused heavily on this big problem of how to repair the banking system. Perhaps we too have taken a slow step toward the banks, and we should get on with it first. But I am talking about when, towards the end of the summer, it was definitively agreed how to manage state-owned companies in the future, through the Slovenian State Holding Company, that on the other hand, an agreement had been reached, a consensus in the policy on a bad bank, but then those movements that were in Maribor – as I said before – were completely distanced from this, were directed towards the mayor, and then they received a broader Slovenian dimension, and in December these movements were all-Slovenian movements. And in those movements, respected colleagues, it will be very difficult to convince me that there was not much charge from the political types of the current coalition, different from individuals, and in that part this anger against the Slovenian government has also been tried and, on the other hand, all possible and normal and abnormal measures have been taken to prevent the process of adopting a bad bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u43	Mr. Bogovich, I must warn you that three minutes for the replica has passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u44	And in these procedures, this connection is linked to the concept of bank resolution. Whether this is the concept of a banking system with recapitalisations, where money will simply be shared with banks, or someone will be responsible for it and put these things on the table. This is the connection I was talking about. And then in January, it kind of stopped. But I'll have a chance to add something to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Happy Meh has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u46	It might be possible to begin this way that we do not, in fact, earn Members as much as citizens and citizens. They will be relieved of our constant accusation of what no one has done and what someone has done wrong. This should somehow stop talking and talk about what we need to do right now. At this point, we must do this to answer the question of how we will draw this wagon, which we call Slovenia. I have also listened very carefully to Mr Montenegro's debate, and I must say that he did not talk about what you are now protesting there. He was talking about the past, about what happened in the past. And I call again, ladies and gentlemen Members, when you talk about what someone has done wrong, report it, if you have everything you need and have information, report it. Do not confuse people into thinking that this has really happened. It didn't happen, not much, but if you know, tell me. I don't know about any such case. What's expected and what's been the frame-up? It is very easy to reduce the deficit in this way, as it was made last year. Let me say that we have supported the law, this is the real budget and also the ZUJF, that we have supported it, that we have been involved in this. Do something like that. It is very easy to reduce in such a way that you cut everything together and then the Constitutional Court removes what was wrong and you have to settle it in the next budget. That's not how you do it, ladies and gentlemen! And my protest against the fact that the current coalition was involved in these protests. Sorry, no one can have a clean hand in these protests, and no one can tell who he was or who he wasn't. Of course, on behalf of the SD, I protest that someone tells me that the current coalition has been involved in this. Excuse me, no! I'm not going to accuse anyone, but it's a priori, and I strongly deny it. And one more thing. Slovenia's over-indebtedness today reflects what happened in 2004 and 2008. At that time, there were companies, the private sector was in debt. Where's he in charge? Can you tell me where this sector is in charge? In two of Slovenia's largest banks. And from here it is a fundamental sin of over-indebtedness, of bad credit and all that these companies cannot repay. Can I ask you who ran the two biggest Slovenian banks at the time? These two biggest Slovenian banks, we heard here last afternoon in the National Assembly, led two people who had a SDS card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 4? It's still an interest, so I'd like to invite you to speak. Mr. Ivan Vogrin is the first to have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u48	Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Today, in these critical times, the word is actually something to thank you for, for telling the truth is sometimes painful for someone. Nevertheless, Ruskin said that the truths we wanted to hear at the very least would benefit us most. But usually we hear and move quickly. I don't think anyone's gonna like what I'm about to tell you, but I think it's the truth. This National Assembly, these institutions of the system are not part of the solution. We are not part of the solution, we are part of the problem, and we should really try to do something different. Why? See how I can explain to myself yesterday's explanation by the Ministry of Finance that higher taxes do not affect the functioning of the economy. How am I supposed to explain this to myself, whether it's intentional deception or not? In the book Taxes and Budget, written in 2003, by Dr. Marko Kranjec, the outgoing Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, I quote: "Wrong taxes can cause great damage to the entire generation." People actually know where the problems are, they just don't solve them. And the balance of the budget that we accept, where we additionally burden the economy with higher court fees, higher vehicle registration taxes, with higher VAT, this will not bring a solution. This can't bring a solution. I think we forget that the payments of the National Assembly don't come from the Ministry of Finance. It would be nice if you made money there. It's made in the economy. And however we turn, however we try to dig into the works of domestic authors, professional literature, the works of foreign authors, we find that only from what was created to live, not by redistribution. Most of all, we're successfully redistributing. And that's really wrong. In fact, what we've been doing for a while, we've been cutting up the branch we're sitting on. If we do not create conditions for the good functioning of the economy, public finances cannot be consolidated as well. I hope we know what consolidation means. Consolidation is a Latin term that means laying on solid foundations. But do we really think that we are putting public finances on solid foundations through greater indebtedness, greater consumption or sustainable consumption and smaller creation? That's not possible. No one's ever discovered that math before. And what's interesting is that if we go deeper -- I'm just writing a book and now I'm going to study deeper -- in a statement by the leading politicians to take measures that are least damaging to the economy. Let us take a closer look at this word link "at least harm", which is why we recognize that the measures that this government and this Parliament are taking are detrimental. And yet we accept them. Instead of being our basic way of working, how we will burden the economy and enable the economy to work normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you, too. The next one has the word Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I think it's my first time in the budget. And I didn't have a purpose today, but when I hear it from the other side of the ecclesiastical lie, it's time to react. And anyway. It's because of the people looking at us. It was said that the largest number of loans were granted between 2004 and 2008. So tell me who gave them. The government has nothing to do with this. And even between 2004 and 2008 or later, the government had no influence on this. That's up to the people who run the banks. The two largest banks were run by Mr Kovacic and Mr Kramar. None of them have SDS membership cards. And it is good that the lie in Parliament is not punishable. That's the first one. Second. Mr. Kramarj has continued the government of Robb 1. 2. 2004 and left in 2009 with one million euros in his pocket. And we didn't replace him. The government doesn't even change it. And then there was no change in ownership in the supervisory world. That means the government could have influenced the exchange, but it didn't have an impact. This means telling people the truth that all those loans granted between 2004 and 2008, which were the largest since it was a conjunctura, as it is clear that the government has no influence. If anyone in the country of Slovenia took credit – from the household for the washing machine to the one who bought the factory, the government did not decide. And don't spread lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u52	Yesterday afternoon, here in the National Assembly, it was said that the two biggest Slovenian banks led two members with an SDS card during the period 2004-2008. No one denied it. That's the first time. And a second time. I never said that the Slovenian government granted loans. However, I said that the most credits were given in 2004-2008, those credits to the natural and other persons who still bear the burden of these two largest banks. And these two banks need to be rehabilitated because of that, and we're actually doing it. So please, I was just saying what I heard here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. Would you like to discuss it, Mr. Blackach? Procedural? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u54	Mr Meh needs to be told the following. If he repeats lies that I doubt that he does not know that they are unrealistic, and he does so with some purpose of performing in public and deceiving the public, then it is also right to repeat the truth at the same time. Then let him say, if he is already repeating the lie that, during his reign, Mr Kramar, appointed by the government of Rob at the head of the President of the New Ljubljana Bank, a prize of EUR 190,000 has been paid, obviously for a period which Mr Meh has itself been very critical of the poor management of the bank, and that Mr Kramar has received the last payment of EUR 190 000 gross at the beginning of their government, namely the Pahor government, which amounted to 11 months's wages to the other two heads of administrations, which they later inherited. And many other truths would be worth telling. Also, what we are talking about today is substantive. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u55	Mr Chernač, you have a replica or procedural proposal and please state what procedural proposal you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u56	No, procedurally. I wanted to point out in a procedural way that the speaker should only be warned that when he signs up to the replica, he will say everything he knows, including what is truth, not just what is a lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Meh, there are no replicas on the replica, so I can't give you a word. However, it is possible to apply for this Article 4. Time has not yet run out, so if there is a desire to discuss it, I invite you to apply for a word. Excuse me? Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u58	Here's the thing. Mr Daniel Blejc and Igor Marinšek are both the presidents of the supervisory boards of the two largest Slovenian banks. Both with an SDS member card. If you're asking. However, it must be said to Mr Kramer that his prize was taxed and that he did not receive this award. In the days of the Pahor government, he did not receive this award. The truth must truly be told in such a way that we all understand it. But it is right, ladies and gentlemen, that the bank is being rehabilitated and the banks need to be rehabilitated. In what way, of course, is the question. I don't know if it's right that Mr Shircelj is the one who, as president of the bad bank, will handle it, but that he is also a Member at the same time. But that's how it's decided. And it's only right that we do the best we know right now. But we're saving up the fact that we'll be able to make loans tomorrow and the banks will be able to work tomorrow. But I agree with you, not the same as before. But if you know anyone he's been working wrong, report him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u59	I think that the historical aspect is quite well defined, we have exchanged truths, we have corrected. Would you like to discuss it, Mr. Vizjak? A debate or something? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u60	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u61	I'm sorry, I'll just call everyone who wants to discuss signing up for the word, so there won't be any problem with the record. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I am pleased to call for everyone to make an effort to report those whom we consider to have caused a major problem to public finances and Slovenian banks in any period. That is why a parliamentary commission is also set up to investigate this. I am very pleased with the indignation of Mr Meh and the Social Democrats as well, which means that the work of this Commission will be easier. Mr Meh referred to the two Presidents of the supervisory boards of banks, but Mr Meh probably knows, but if he does not know, but I will tell him that the credit boards of the banks, the operational parts of the banks that approve the loans, are not made up of supervisors, but members of the bank's administration. That's a fact. Bank credit boards are not made up of supervisors. And more. In Nova Ljubljanska Banka, only a certain percentage of the bank's exposure to the supervisory board was at stake, and none of these controversial loans, at least I don't know about them, was so high, but was approved within the administrations. Mr Marjan Kramar was the leader of the New Ljubljana Bank. Marjan Kramar was a close associate of the late Mr Drnovska and was appointed Prime Minister of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Of course, looking here is also a source of problems. But we don't want to speculate. I'm glad this investigation committee was set up. I am pleased that we will also make one effort in this House, I hope unanimously that concrete signatures will be revealed under these credit agreements, by who has signed them. Look, every loan is approved by contract. And it is known who on one hand is the recipient of the loan and who on the other hand approved the loan. And I think it is in everyone's interest to expose these people to see if any officials or politicians have helped in this, and to actually sanction these, let's say even pigs that have pushed the Slovenian banking system into a situation that we need to take additional financial resources in Zippore to patch up these holes. So, Mr Meh, I am glad that we have the same goal here. The Slovenian Democratic Party has initiated the process of setting up this Parliamentary Commission and I look forward to working with you, especially since you will probably also be able to ensure with your party's authority in the coalition that the banks will actually send these papers to the Commission of Inquiry so that we can see whose signatures these are. However, if this continues to be hidden, the problem will be for all of us, and we will probably face such increases in public debt in the future. I'd ask you to stop blaming yourself if we have the same goal of revealing it. And it's the same goal for us if we don't do what we do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you. I note that there is no interest in further discussion under Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4. Can we close the debate? Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on Article 4 and the amendment. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on legal fees in accordance with the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you the amendment to the Law on Judicial Fees, which seeks to achieve in particular a more appropriate balance between the complexity and the extent of the work necessary for the conduct of individual proceedings before the courts and the amount of fees due. This is the primary objective of the bill, while the proposed amendment also eliminates some in practice perceived shortcomings and uncertainties in the regulation in force. In accordance with the primary objective of the proposed law, namely, to align the amount of the court fees with the costs of judicial proceedings or proceedings for the work of the courts, certain court fees are being increased and some are being redefined. Most of the proposed amendments are prepared on the basis of proposals from the courts. It is important to point out that in the Republic of Slovenia court fees have not been raised since 2008. We believe that the proposed changes in the level of judicial fees are appropriate and do not go beyond the constitutionally permissible framework. The majority of the court fees to which the changes relate will increase by about 10%. These include, in particular, fees for judicial proceedings and the most common, fees for enforcement proceedings. In addition to aligning court fees with court costs, the changes will have at least one additional positive effect. Among other things, they will stimulate potential parties to more rationally initiate judicial proceedings and encourage them to make legal claims more realistic. In practice, the amounts in question are often exaggerated, too high in relation to the adverse event, and in this way the parties often simply leave their way open until the revision, often without justification extending the proceedings and burdening the judicial system. Socially weaker novelties of the law are not at risk. Even under the new regime, it will be possible to apply for exemption, deferral or rebate of judicial fees. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to suspend the enforcement of the provisions of the current law, we extend the time limit for the submission of an application for exemption, deferral or rebate of judicial fees. According to the new proposal, it will be possible to submit this proposal until the expiry of the time limit for payment of the court fee and not only until the action is brought. At the same time, the amendment also amends the conditions for such exemption, as only the recipient of financial social assistance can be fully exempt from court fees, while others can apply for partial exemption, deferral or annual payment of court fees, with the amendment of the law allowing this partial exemption to be substantial, including almost 100 %. In addition, it is proposed that a complaint may be lodged against any decision by the court to decide on an application for exemption, deferral or a partial payment of court fees. Finally, let me talk about the financial aspects of the novel that you have ahead of you. The new Law on Court Fees is part of the urgent measures proposed by the Ministry of Finance to improve the revenue side of the budget. The European Union has warned us that not enough revenue has been made. In particular, it should be noted that the budget already adopted foresees a rise in court fees, i.e. in a higher amount, more ambitious than the proposed increases in the novel that you have before you. To conclude, however, no matter what happens in the field of judicial fees, the means for the functioning of the judiciary and the prosecution are provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The Committee on Justice, as the parent of the labour force, has considered the proposal of the law. The report will be presented by the President of the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, also on behalf of the Committee on Justice, which, at its 27th urgent meeting on 9 July 2013, addressed as a working mother the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Fees. He took note of the reasons given by the Government and of the comments made by the Council of State which did not support the proposed law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service expressed concerns in terms of compliance with the Constitution and existing constitutional practice in the field of tax determination. In particular, it pointed to the high and disproportionate increase in certain judicial fees. The basic criterion for determining court fees is proportionality, which is the purpose of the court fees payment for the management of services, there must be a relationship between the level of the court fee and the service. In addition, there must be a balance between the individual court fees. She pointed out that the legislator had free hands in determining court fees, but she should be careful not to extend the constitutional right to judicial protection by excessively increasing the legal fee. With regard to the constitutional right to judicial protection, it specifically pointed out that there was a disproportionate increase in court fees in enforcement proceedings, which could constitute a restriction on the right to judicial protection. In the debate, the representatives of the coalition summed up the Government's argument and the opposition MPs mainly referred to the opinion of the legal service and pointed out a lower standard of living for citizens and citizens who strongly deviate from or are completely opposed to the raising of judicial fees. Finally, in the vote, the committee adopted amendments by majority of the coalition's votes to the members of the positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS, while rejecting both the proposed amendment of the SD Group of Members, as regards the level of the court fees and the payment of court fees. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee adopted the updated text of the bill with the votes of the ruling coalition and the amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen. In recent months, we have also drawn attention to various reports by domestic and foreign institutions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the problem of justice and have also proposed solutions for more effective justice. In particular, to restore to people the feeling that they live in a legal country where everyone can achieve his or her right, regardless of how much resources he or she has in the account, and to make justice actually effective. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that you are putting things on the head of this bill. Not only are you hitting citizens again in your pockets, but you are actually making it impossible for some to achieve their right. And there is an increasing sense that we are living again in two legal countries, one for those who have money, and the other for those who do not. With this proposal, you will achieve that rights and protection for people will not be the same. It will strengthen the belief that justice can be bought. It follows from the explanation that fees for judicial proceedings, legal disputes, disputes between parents and children, enforcement and insurance procedures and so on are being raised. Who will tell those who are fighting in court for the correction or elimination of certain injustices that this situation will continue, because of all the measures you have taken, they will simply not be able to afford to proceed with the proceedings in the courts. We believe that you are making it very difficult for an individual who, at the same time as monthly income, rising food prices and other cost of living as a result of raising VAT and other measures, no longer knows where to turn for justice. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced to fill the state treasury at the expense of people to maintain the public sector and patch up bank holes, there is absolutely no way to lead to a better future for our country. With everything we've been monitoring lately about judicial work, the number of judicial backlogs and the dissatisfaction of people working in the courts, we are surprised that the Minister hopes to come to Parliament with a proposal to raise judicial fees. We would expect different proposals to speed up procedures and ensure a fair trial. Thus, every day in the newspapers we read stories about ineffective courts, this week there was an article in the Slovenian news about the case of the bulmastif, my case where the victim of wild dogs has been fighting for justice for years, and everyone is just fooling around, excommunicating and issuing judgments for which it is already far apparent that they have no contact with reality, with the distress of the individual, let alone being righteous. There are many such cases, and people are experiencing severe hardships at the same time. In the meantime, we are still waiting for a package of laws from the Minister, which we will be happy to support only if it is shown that they are intended for a better and more effective judiciary. Such a proposal, which means a loaded state budget in an easy way at the expense of a small person and even at the expense of the legal protection of people, will not, of course, be supported in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-worker, honourable Members and Members. The proposed novelty was not created solely for the purpose of increasing the budget inflow, but mainly because, according to the Courts, the current fees are not followed and do not correspond to the costs incurred by the conduct of judicial proceedings. A more appropriate relationship should also be reached between the complexity and the scope of work and the level of the applicable court fees. As has already been said at the meeting of the parental committee itself, no fees have been raised in the last five years. But the fact is, all these years, there has been an increase in the cost of living, as well as many taxes. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, there is a need, if I may say so, for a certain price consolidation in this area as well. Of course, at a level that is still acceptable to the parties to the proceedings. In the DeSUS Group, we assessed that the proposed increase in court fees, which was subsequently appropriate and in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, was corrected, appropriate and sustainable. We have also estimated that, irrespective of the price rise, judicial protection is still sufficiently guaranteed to all citizens. The amendment's proposal continues to follow the constitutional right to judicial protection in a manner that provides for the possibility of full exemption of the payment of a court fee to those who are recipients of financial social assistance, provides for the possibility of partial relief of the payment of a court fee to those who, due to payment, would be significantly reduced by the funds they spend or survive their family members and provides for the possibility of deferral of payment or payment of interest to those who, due to the immediate payment, would be significantly reduced by the means of which they survive or survive their family members. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will vote in favour of the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u72	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The main reason for the amendment of the law on judicial fees is an increase in public finances. This follows from the explanation of the proposed law, as well as from the content of the proposed amendments, which go towards raising taxes. In determining the amount of court fees, the legislator must consider not only the costs of court services, which, of course, are intended for fees, but must have a particular aspect of the access of the parties to the courts. The current system of judicial fees often prevents customers from seeking their right in the courts. We are more and more often reminded of this by citizens. The payment of a court fee is in most cases a procedural assumption, which means that the court does not accept or initiate proceedings if the court is not paid. At the present time of the economic crisis, high unemployment rates and the flow of real and often nominal salaries, the Court's fees are increasingly difficult for people to pay. The increase in court fees at this time is therefore a completely inappropriate measure to increase public financial revenues. In the current system, a certain correlation to high court fees represents the possibility of exempting the payment of judicial fees, which is relatively well regulated. For the purpose of exempting the payment of judicial fees, anyone who would have been reduced by payment of a judicial fee for their own survival or for the survival of family members may now apply. Such an exemption shall be decided by the court on a case-by-case basis. In this way, judicial protection has so far also been provided to the materially weak citizens. However, if, as we know, there are more of these every day, it is logical that we cannot support such novelties of law, since the actual exemption of the court fee allows only for recipients of monetary social assistance. In Novi Slovenija we therefore strongly oppose such a change because it narrows the circle of beneficiaries of such exemptions and, lastly, allows only those citizens who can afford it. We are also opposed to the imposition of a tax on labour disputes of a property nature. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the State should, with its control mechanisms, in particular inspection services, ensure that employers fulfil their obligations to workers. However, since these control mechanisms are not working today, workers have to demand more and more court fees for their salaries. However, the duration of these procedures, as you know, is not measured in months, but in years. Therefore, the introduction of a tax for these types of disputes would in fact only mean limiting this last option that workers have at their disposal to gain their right. As it is said, we will not support the amendment of the Law on Court Fees of Members of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will present its position Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The essential task and purpose of paying court fees is to cover the costs of the courts they consider to carry out judicial proceedings. Of course, the implementation of judicial proceedings is aimed and directed also at the exercise of constitutional rights, the right to judicial protection that all citizens of our country have. The right to judicial protection is therefore the highest set of rights, the right under our Constitution, and this right is exercised by paying the fees that cover these costs, in the event that the funds from the courts are not sufficient, however, the difference must of course be borne out of the budget. That the budget is empty and that it is no longer from where to take it, I think it is now completely clear to everyone. In this respect, one of the highest protected constitutional rights may also be compromised. In order to secure this value, the previous Janša government, which also included a raise in the package of proposed and planned measures, has assessed the need to raise the fees. Comparably, our judicial fees are average or even below the average of the European Union. Finally, in the Republic of Slovenia, legal fees were raised in 2008. At that time, they represented 61% of the legal fee in the Republic of Germany, the first in the legal system with which Slovenia likes to compare itself. Since then, Germany has already raised court fees several times, and this average is now slightly smaller, namely, court fees in the Republic of Slovenia would represent 59% of the legal fees in Germany after the rise. The purpose of raising judicial fees is not to deprive anyone of judicial protection and the possibility of accessing the courts, but vice versa. This broad possibility of judicial protection is to continue to be exercised and made possible. As so far, the law allows the weak to avoid paying the court fees. However, it should be noted that this law, like all others, is intended for all citizens, is also referred to as the most powerful, including legal companies, large companies and corporations abroad, who also have to pay judicial fees. For those weak parts of the population who may not be able to afford this payment, the law shows even more the possibility of avoiding this payment. The law lays down the automaticity of the exemption of the payment of a court fee in the event of a person receiving social security benefits, in all other cases allowing the court, by weighing all circumstances, and in particular taking into account the property status of the party and its family members, the value of the case and the number of persons who are being held by the party, to exempt that person from payment of the tax. Thus, the court takes into account the client's assets, financial and liquidity aspects and also provides for the same law for legal persons or undertakings as individuals. In addition to the exemption and partial payment, which may amount, as the Secretary of State has said, to up to 100 % of the exemption, so that the payment of the legal fee is released almost in full, it is also possible to make the payment and the payment deferred. Furthermore, I would just like to explain that the Legislative and Legal Service has indeed raised some concerns about the disproportionate amount of fees in enforcement proceedings and the possibility of appeal, namely the enforcement of the exemption. In both cases, the Government has listened to these legislative and legal proposals and, with the amendments we have adopted on the Committee, has also addressed them. Let me also say that the successful party to the dispute is entitled to the refund of the court fee. It is said that those who seek the assistance of the court in duly justified cases where their rights are granted are, in any event, entitled to the reimbursement of all costs incurred. We'll support the law on court fees.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Let me say in the introduction that we will not support the law. It is not a matter of any principle of opposition to the law, but it is also simple and particularly because I do not know which area, I do not know which taxes, I do not know which fees and everything else this government has not yet raised or will raise in the fall. That's one of the reasons. Another of the reasons is this. In the debate on the Committee, we have heard very clearly that, among others, there are also tribunals or that it is a state court. It is perfectly logical that the Supreme Court, as the largest court in the country and in some ways also superior to other courts, is interested in being successful in doing as much as possible to demonstrate its success. Obviously, it is also one of the mechanisms that reduces the number of court fees and could result in more success. We cannot attach ourselves to this, or we cannot support such thinking. The other thing that is is next. To raise court fees where it is simply that people want to exercise their fundamental rights, such as rights from a working relationship, I speak for the courts, they will simply decide not to do so. Why? Because of the higher fees. It was also said that the height of the taxi did not follow the costs of the courts. Yeah, of course it doesn't follow them, because that makes sense. Why isn't he following them? Court fees are only part of the budget, and this change in law is expected to get about 8 million — that was the first calculation. It's logical not to follow them. In other countries, court fees bring much, much more to the budget than we do. Why? Because we have the most judges. It is logical, then, that the costs of the procedure do not follow the costs incurred by the state budget with the courts. Clearly not — because we have too many judges and because these judges simply do too little for various reasons. We have also found this in the procedures for dealing with other laws. It was also said that for five years there was no higher fees. Yeah, of course they weren't, but we've been down for five years, five years now they've been down, and then it would be logical to lower court fees if people had less money. And so on one side the wages are lower, the pensions are lower, the fees are higher. Comparisons with Germany, which were also considered on the Committee, were said to have reached 61% of German court fees five years ago and that the current amendment only accounts for 58% of German court fees. Slovenians make much less at this time, and Germans earn more than in 2008. Therefore, such comparisons are simply not sustainable and are not appropriate. And you can't say that 58% of German court fees are ours, which is ours' height, and now it's a good situation. Of course, it's not a pleasant situation. It would be pleasant if Slovenian salaries, pensions and everything else were the same to German. Well, that's not the same. There's probably three times or more. And if we want to make a normal comparison, then our court fees should be about one-third, if there are three times the wages, I think they're even bigger. It is said that they could be at 30% and not 58%. It's not some kind of coalition success, in no way. It is therefore simply a matter of charging the state budget also on the basis of the lack of access to the courts, and of course we will not participate in such work. This does not mean that we will vote "quorum", but we will vote "against" the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u78	Dear Secretary of State, fellow Member and fellow Members! In the introduction to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees, the applicant states that the proposal for a law is one of the measures to increase public financial revenues. The annual inflow to the state budget for judicial fees is EUR 8 million. In particular, the maximum share is expected to raise judicial fees for enforcement and insurance procedures, amounting to at least €4.5 million. In addition to the original objective, the aim of this novelty should also be to achieve a better balance between the complexity and the extent of the work required for the conduct of individual proceedings and the amount of the fees due. Some court fees are increasing and some are being redefined. There is also an increase in judicial fees for judicial proceedings, for legal disputes and disputes between parents and children, and for certain unfair proceedings. In particular, the fees for individual labour disputes of a property nature should be mentioned during the new court fees. The applicant also submits that, in order to ensure the constitutional right to judicial protection in relation to the constitutional principle of the social state, the application of the exemption, deferral or remunerated payment of judicial fees is made easier for the materially weaker parties. They change and, in part, the conditions for such an exemption are tightened. We are opposed to this solution by the Social Democrats. We have proposed an amendment to the Committee to delete Article 3 of the amendment and to now remain in force. Unfortunately, our amendment has not been adopted on the committee, and I am surprised to hear from my colleague Tonin that, despite this debate today, New Slovenia has not supported this proposal to delete Article 3. But we're sure this isn't a good solution. More than once, it has been repeated that the legal fees have not increased for five years. Five years ago, more specifically, on 1 April 2008, a new law on judicial fees, without the votes of the Social Democrats, was adopted with a key objective, and I quote: "Promoting a more rational initiation of judicial proceedings, taking into account the principle that court fees must be set within such borders so as not to deter individuals from enforcing judicial protection." Further: "Promoting faster and more ongoing proceedings, encouraging parties to conclude court proceedings and other forms of early conclusion of the proceedings." And also: " Simplification of the payment of court fees for the abolition of the obligation to prove the fee paid by the taxpayer." At that time, in 2008, he also wrote, quote: "The achievement of these objectives will help to reduce judicial backlogs, which is one of the main objectives of many legislative changes over the past two years. The proposal for a law removes the above limits on the amount of court fees in individual proceedings, which will increase the fees determined by the value of the subject matter at the high value of the case. In addition, it sets out some new fees that will further increase the inflow to the state budget." Thus, the same thinking was already in 2008. We will support the proposed amendment by the majority, because we are aware that every additional euro in the budget means something, but we are not entirely convinced that the euro from the Court fees is the euro that will contribute to the recovery of the economy and to economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State! 185 million euros are earmarked for the costs of justice in this year's budget. Of these, € 135 million is for court operations only. Court fees are one of the important revenues financed by the judicial authorities, the courts. These courts, in fact, in this country and in all countries, constitute the foundation, guarantee and essence of the rule of law. If the funds from the courts are not collected enough, then the difference must be covered from the budget, that is to say from the resources of all taxpayers. To a certain extent, judicial fees are fairly fair, paid exclusively by those who need and benefit from judicial services. Whoever does not need court services and does not cause proceedings, he does not have a problem with court fees. In addition, court fees are intended to assess the financial risk before submitting a proposal and to force it to assess their potential for success and to deter them from making manifestly unfounded claims or complaints. However, there must be a direct link and a reasonable proportion between the level of the fee and the service. It cannot and must not happen that the amount of the court fee discourages individuals with average income who are not entitled to exemption from the payment of court fees. The legal novelties that we are considering today are following the ambition to extend the obligation to pay court fees also to court services, for which fees have not been paid for unknown reasons so far. Thus, the fee is introduced for individual labour disputes with claims of property, welcome and necessary is the amended method of assessment of the judicial fee for criminal proceedings, higher fees for non-electronic applications with which the courts have significantly more work. The way in which the tax is administered is changed in the case of possible and alternative cumulation of claims. However, in the context of fees for land-booking procedures, payment of fees shall also be introduced for procedures for the registration of all rights exercised. In these cases, it is difficult procedures, which have not been paid so far. However, in the remaining cases, the lift is minimal and, in view of all the above, can also be justified. As has already been said, this National Assembly last raised the amount of judicial fees five years ago. If I make a parallel with administrative fees, we can find that administrative fees have increased by almost 30% since 2008 and judicial fees have remained at the same level. In fact, we would suggest that the Government and the Ministry of Justice should give serious consideration to the complete overhaul of the concept of charging judicial fees in the direction of compression, as we have had it years ago. The current range of court fees is to simplify, from EUR 5 to 15 there to EUR 200 000 and more, virtually without any limitation up and solely on the level of the claim. Whether the scope and complexity of the court's work in deciding on the claim for EUR 300 justifies the Court's fee of EUR 5, 10 and whether the decision on the claim of EUR 3 million justifies the legal fee of EUR 25 000, or whether that individual with a higher claim finances the one with a lower one, despite the measure actually not popular, is necessary and finally follows the adopted budget in 2013 and we will support in the Civil Gazette the amendment of the Law on Court Fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Braniselle. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Do you have a desire to discuss it? I'm opening a debate. Please sign up. Six Members and Members of Parliament have signed up. I give my first word to Mr. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Actually, we're in interesting times. I have a feeling that every time the opposition, no matter who it is, speaks a normal, reasonable language. Talk with facts, not bullshit, doesn't excuse nonsense. For example, Dr. Gorenak said well, wages have been falling since 2008 and pensions have been falling. Prices, if we go to Spar, Mercator, Shower and so on, they go down. Car prices are down. Why? As everything declines in the crisis, demand has decreased, the supply and demand law is in force, the supply has increased, demand has decreased. And of course, the breaking point is significantly lower, prices are falling. It's only growing in the public sector. Except, of course, for crying. And wages don't grow here either, which is sad. So there's no logical argument to justify raising court fees. Also, the argument that those who are suing to pay court fees do not, in fact, abstain from serious judgment. I'll give you the case. Yesterday, when I was driving home, my lady called me and told me a sad story, as was the story of my colleague Katarina Hočevar. She told David's story, I'll tell Maria's story. 380 euros in pension, doesn't know what to live on, pays the apartment and so on. This lady is being sued and has to appeal to the Court's decision, i.e. to the Court's decision of first instance and has to pay a court fee. He doesn't have any money. If he does not pay the fees, the judgment handed down shall apply. Look, for at least the last 10 years, no one has been able to answer the question whether elected political representatives of the people are leading and directing the operation of a bureaucratic apparatus or the opposite. This is written in the book Why Slovenia bankrupted. The reasons for Slovenia's bankruptcy are deeper than we think. Dr. Peter Kraljic said, "Slovakia rules are full of clever nonsense." And look, this Parliament has not been given the mandate of the people to legislate the prudent nonsense. Applicants may be right to want more money, but this is not right. And we can't do that. Not to raise judicial fees, not taxes on happiness, VAT should not be increased, but to adjust public consumption to what has been created. That's the way out of bankruptcy. Just that, nothing else! Everything else is babbling, babbling while we're in power. But slowly no one will be in power anymore, for the authorities take over those who lend us money. And that's how it always is. That's how it is in the company. That's how it is in the country. It's just the company moving away earlier, the country later. From 2008 to today, thousands and thousands of companies have been cloned by the country, not to say tens of thousands of companies under the weight of the crisis. We can't let that happen. Look, we don't have this mandate. We can't do this! Or, if we are not prepared to accept the responsibility of making decisions, we go to early elections or just let go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that we are discussing Article 13 or the amendment of the SDS Group. As a second, I give my word to Mr. Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ministry representatives, colleagues, colleagues! Perhaps to begin with what we have prepared in the SDS Group. So we propose that paragraph 13 be deleted. We have quite a few concerns as to why this article has been changed at all. We believe that this proposed increase in fees is an unjustified and disproportionate interference with the constitutional right to judicial protection. To this you representatives of the Government have also been very much warned by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Otherwise, in some members of the working body, the Committee on Justice tried to balance this somehow, but you were also not exactly harmonised there because individual coalition parties had different proposals and everything was not realized. Secondly, why we think that Article should be deleted is that the proposal to increase court fees in the field of enforcement and insurance does not contain any concrete analysis of what this would transfer to economic operators. For the past three years, we have been talking about how the economy needs to be helped in this way and in a different way, but I think that the way in which we raise judicial fees, so in these cases of enforcement and insurance, we certainly do not make any positive policy towards this already bad economic situation. You have come from the fact that people will continue to walk joyfully in the courts, despite the fact that you will be raising judicial fees, and you have given some ideal financial consequences. I think these financial consequences have been exaggerated. I think that at the time of the year or about a month before we meet with the effects of this law, you will see that the effects are much smaller than you imagined. In view of the initial presentation by the applicant that the last raise was in 2008, then, as several colleagues have already said today, we should reduce the court fees today at least for this case of enforcement and insurance by at least 10%. On the other hand, if you remember, there was a lot of talk on the committee about how we compare ourselves with Germany. And if we have now gone from 61% to 58% of their judicial fees, depending on the purchasing power, GDP and all other comparable indicators, if we compare ourselves with Germany in this case, we should probably lower court fees by at least 30% in order to reach a third of the comparable German purchasing power or their GDP. It also bothered me very much when the proposaler was present today, and they did not hope to tell themselves on the committee that this law and individual solutions were primarily on a proposal from the courts, so that taxpayers, Slovenes and Slovenians would not care whether they were natural or legal persons, and they would pay for a catastrophic situation in the Slovenian judiciary or their work, a crime. I personally do not think that their work will be more effective, nor will it be more effective for the centimeter, but of course they will probably serve on the other side of the court how they have fewer cases and are less successful, and we will probably sometimes find an article, as it is based on this law on judicial fees that the Slovenian judiciary is more effective. Yes, they will be able to boast about it, but if we look on the other side to see that they will not be more effective in practice, because there will be a decline in matters. So the citizens will be deprived. Let's leave the lowest ones who won't have to pay the fees. So I really don't know why this marriage came into consideration. I know why he came. For each law you send to the National Assembly, see how the taxpayers would be hit, whether it is taxes, whether it is fines, or penalties, or in this case judicial fees. But you're charging taxpayers for your policy. Someone will probably say the following, you suggest other ways. This was discussed yesterday at the rebalancing, where at least the SDS Group spent three hours trying to show you where we could take everything. I believe that someone has a short memory or some of the most competent ones who should have listened to it have been at other meetings or had no time to engage in such an important task in the National Assembly, but I say, let's leave it. As I said, this is another way of putting the burden of the crisis on citizens. I personally think this marriage is completely incomplete. If you don't believe me, read the Legislative and Legal Service's opinion again. Perhaps also why we are separated and why we have also proposed deleting this article, because we were not able to propose deletions at all because the legislative procedure is the same as it is. We also separate after that, some people think people are difficult just like that. There's something wrong with people and they're suing. We are others, however, who think that the charges are because of some consequences, or some of the reasons, where people in the courts seek justice or on the other hand seek the elimination of injustices. And you went down here linearly, and you raised your legal fees. Now, in fact, you don't want to know what the specific case of a court-martial is. It was said on the committee, and it is likely that today the Secretary of State will also repeat that this law was already in existence in the previous term. Probably comes from the heads of individual officials or probably judicial organisations, how best to get the money. Like I said, the easiest way to get it is to challenge taxpayers, if they want to do anything, I won't tell them to make it in court, even pay for it, and then the trial will show how much more successful it is. Why do I think this marriage is unnecessary? I have to say, 14 days ago, I was quite dismayed when I received an answer in a written reply from another ministry, why one thing cannot be done. It was a local matter, and it was said they couldn't do it. Why? Because the legislative work plan for 2014 has not been adopted at all. This means that, in fact, this law is one of those laws, such as probably all the laws in this mandate, or at least in those three months, when you are actually working from today to tomorrow. So, you look at these transitional criminal provisions and you say it can go through anything. We Slovenians are more and more like Cankar's servants, and let's give them a little raise, if not taxes, at least court fees. It really bothered me that this was on a proposal from the courts. I'm talking about the courts, not because I'm a member of a particular client, but because people come to my office with problems from the judiciary. It is very difficult for me to tell them that I, as a Member, can only adopt as much legislation as possible, but I cannot help them in specific matters. But those cases are concrete and hardly have anything to do with legislation. Above all, what you yourself have written down is a budget charge. In the SDS, we will not help you in this regard in particular because these judicial fees, at least in this Article, will also have an impact on the business of economic operators. We're not gonna help you with that. As I said before, if you acted as you did on the committee when you compared us with Germany, you should suggest not only a 10% reduction in court fees, but probably at least a third. This tax raising policy of yours as the first and almost only measure of this government is wrong and is also wrong in court fees. I appeal to all members of the coalition to support this amendment, and perhaps at least to some economic operator you will make a better day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. To discuss this, I invite Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u86	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In any case, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular from this point of view, because it seems to me that enforcement and insurance is a disproportionate determination of the level of judicial fees. That I will not start a general debate on what the situation is like in Slovenia and that we have a lot of those who have been violated by certain rights and that in fact citizens and citizens with the lowest income will not have the opportunity to seek their right in courts at all. If I focus on execution and then also on the very objection to these executions, let me state why I find this lift unjustifiable. We all know that the enforcement process is now mostly computerised and that enforcement can be made on the basis of a credible instrument attached by a creditor. Many times it comes to the fact that, in fact, the debtors have settled obligations and because you simply have no other option to prove themselves in the process, you can only have this opportunity to complain and to prove your right, which is arbitrarily decided on the basis of a authentic instrument. This is not the case, as was the case at times, that the person against whom enforcement has been filed may have had the opportunity to prove in the process itself that his obligation has been settled and that there may be an absurdity, as she has already pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly itself, that there should be a disproportionate decision, for example, if you put an objection to enforcement, i.e. the procedure against the enforcement decision, you should pay – after the new, you should pay 75 euros not to mention the complaint – 125 euros and so on. Let me say that in the parliamentary offices, I often hear from citizens and citizens who, for example, have a trigger-happy execution process of, say, ten, twenty, thirty euros. Where's the proportionality here? In fact, these proportionalitys are being undermined by this proposal. And it is not right for those who are most at risk to have no opportunity to raise objections or to complain about the enforcement decision, because they will weigh between saying 250 euros or 260 euros in social support or having a minimum pension or a minimum wage to go into the process itself, because it will have to pay more for the process than its amount of debt. And here I think all the rights of citizens and citizens have actually been violated. Of course, I'm in favour of paying off debts, but we should keep these taxes on the same level, not to raise them. And what the Secretary of State herself said in the introduction, I think it is really only a matter of filling the budget hole at the expense of those most at risk in this country. And that's not right. On the one hand, we also raise fines, as we know from the Forest Act, where disproportionately high fines occur again, and on the other hand today, when we talk about taxes, we can find the same thing again. For this reason, of course, I will support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. Mr Franz Pukšič has been reported to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the amendment. Now, here's the thing. The VAT rose, the ice cream became one euro, as VAT rose from 20% to 22%, costing the ice cream ice cream ice cream 1.1 euro cupcakes. That's how ice cream people understood it. If I calculated mathematically, I could raise the ice cream for sixteen thousand, so it would cost 1,016 euros. But you still kind of understand that, but they're rounding it up. However, even in the government, they understood that they would raise VAT first, and then they would raise the rest of the services in ice cream, but I did not expect them to. The same logic as ice cream is now, on average somewhere, colleague Maša, for 10% of the raise in court fees, of course you understood it as well. In fact, citizens need to be told that with every session, any change in the law should be taken into account because whatever we continue to do here, we will either raise taxes or raise taxes. You started off with the farthest a social tax, so VAT, then lottery taxes, what happened yesterday, on cars, now on taxes. Everything you do is going to go under taxes. I don't agree, but there have been some cases where those who are suing have to pay. A lot of entrepreneurs don't even have a lot to go after. At headquarters, we remember that the contractor didn't go to press charges because he didn't have any money. But he killed himself. He shot himself. So this is the next time. Where does this government coalition take these citizens and citizens? And by the way, both in the country and in the local community, something is done, and performers don't get paid for it. When he's done his job, he doesn't get paid, even though he's got until his license is obtained and so on and so forth, it's not paid. And what can he do now? A family company of 20, 30 years with 20, 30 employees goes bankrupt because of this, pay court fees and so on, and there is no instrument. In those times, I would expect to make one instrument in court to decide immediately within 14 days on such matters that, on the one hand, what is happening to the State or the local community does not happen, that, after being prosecuted, it pays millions and millions and, on the other hand, companies should go bankrupt. If I say only what could be read in Finance, this has already been said several times today, or some others have said that we have far more judges than Europe. The average economic dispute with us lasts three and a half years. With the tax raise, nothing says you'll lower it at least in an Albanian comparable way. There is an economic conflict in Albania for a year and three and a half years. It is true that we are there from 183 comparisons in 172nd place, behind us is no European country to know, only Afghanistan. This means that we are undergoing procedures around Afghanistan. But it is true that we already have about this kind of government, because there is no income on one side, the citizens are squeezing, so their belts are tightened to the end, so that they will no longer be able to breathe. And when they can't breathe anymore, they'll die, but the country gets rich, so it expands, it goes apart like leaven. But this yeast will also work once it's done taking something from the other side to put it in that yeast. Unfortunately, this situation in the economy is also largely due to the fact that this third branch of government has unfortunately not worked. And we've talked about this a lot. And as we say we have two legal states, it might be good to have double fees. We have two legal states as blacksmiths, both for one, and on the other hand for a small man who will collapse if he doesn't have a real last name. For example, Jaklič’s real estate is still, and some others, that we understand that not only would it be about him, but it is one of the more resounding. We have two legal states for the tycoons and for those who might take some chocolate or jelly to survive, two legal states we have for the great mafia dealers who are released, and on the other hand, we close or even close one of the addicts so far that our criminals, when asked to follow whom, do not get court approval, because that one has the right name and cannot be followed, and three, four on the same list, are also legal states in the case of tax evasion. Co-worker Kociprova, because she will probably have something else to say, the Yankovics have again forgotten to pay EUR 5 million, for which it is true, and will never be. Yeah, read Finance, I hope you can at least read if you've finished college. And that's why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u89	Mr. Pukšič, please, if you focus [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u90	I'm sorry. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u91	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u92	Of course I didn't mean to offend her, God forbid, not by any means, but you know, these negative feelings are stuffing you when someone attacks you nonstop, just like she did yesterday at one other debate, even though today she's very nicely dressed and you could be together at [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u93	Mr. Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u94	Because we have about the same color [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u95	Please focus on Article 13 and the amendment we are considering.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u96	Of course I will. Very soon, I'll be done. That is why I propose to the government coalition that if we already have two legal states, then we should make double fees for those who have rich and fat asses and for those who can no longer survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary, joined the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to clarify something about the level of court fees for enforcement procedures, which was previously discussed, more specifically, Mrs Ramsakova pointed out this. I would like to say the following in this regard. The initial proposal of the novel was to set an enforcement proposal on the basis of a credible charter, i.e. a fee of EUR 75. On a proposal or a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service, we have reduced this with an amendment. The fee for written applications, i.e. written applications of procedures based on a authentic instrument, is set at EUR 55, and for the electronic applications they predominate is in fact 99%, and this fee is set at EUR 44 and the current regime is EUR 40. This is about the level of the court fees in the enforcement proceedings and the lifting of the charges. However, I would like to say something else because the debate has already highlighted that the amendment of the Law on Court Fees seeks to increase the effectiveness of the courts. Here, however, I would like to say that, as I said in the introduction, the primary objective of the law is to achieve a more appropriate balance between the complexity and scope of the work needed to conduct individual court proceedings and the amount of fees by which individual specific judicial proceedings are taxed. As has been said several times, this balance has not been balanced; it has not been reviewed since 2008. The primary objective of the novel is to achieve a more appropriate proportion. However, the effectiveness of the court is being tried to raise, modify and increase, to strengthen the independence of the judiciary with other laws. These are, above all, today we will deal with them, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. If we all want to do something together in the field of greater efficiency in the work of the courts, I suggest that the novels you have today on the agenda, namely the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The debate continues with Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I have said some basic things before in the position of the Group of Members. But it is true that when one thinks that way, a little while ago I listened to Mr Pukšič, who says these things in a way that people understand well. Then, at the final stage, you find that that's true. The specific amendment to Article 13 speaks of procedures under the law governing enforcement and insurance. The Law-Legal Service has itself assessed the rises to be disproportionate so that they could indeed jeopardise that fundamental right of access to the courts. The coalition has eased this matter slightly with the amendment, but our amendment is going in the direction of these procedures, these are procedures under the law governing enforcement and insurance, which have six or seven items on which court fees are charged to actually delete. And I think that, given the nature of these procedures, which Mr Pukšič also plastically displayed, when it comes to protecting some property, when it is necessary to act quickly, we would hurry, not as our courts do, because this will make things even less accessible. It is simply that if someone does some business, just as it did in the Contingencies, and then does not get the things paid, he has the possibility of initiating such procedures. It's already been a matter of four or five years. We've got some hanged craft in between at the expense of these Stožice. With these court fees, we make it all the more difficult to access the courts. And that is why this amendment is ours, and therefore I propose that you support it in our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mr Richard Braniselj has been declared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you, Vice President. The tragedy of court fees, if we say so, regardless of the level of enforcement and insurance procedures is on the side of those fees paid by the creditor. When we are in the execution phase, of course, it is clear who owes someone something and who has to pay something. And we can't actually protect the debtor here. He's on debt to pay, not to complain and lodge objections. However, the tragedy of the creditor in this process is that, by means of judicial fees and with all costs, it has actually had to finance the entire justice process and then the whole enforcement procedure, knowing that, as a result of the general economic situation, the crisis, even the values, if we say so, we come to this stage that, in spite of all these costs, the creditors actually receive nothing, not just the principal and interest, not the costs. Fees shall be raised to a certain extent, but shall be raised reasonably and in accordance with constitutional rules and in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Second thing. To a certain extent, court fees should also be those which would imply some question as to whether, for every matter, legal remedies must be applied, whether or not they should be appealed. Speaking of complaints. Of all the complaints brought by the Supreme Court, only 10 % are substantiated. This means that the court is needlessly faced with the other 9 cases to deal with, and in fact, it is also a time to consider whether we may not be too inclined in this country to Quarry, to appeal, to lawsuits at all costs. And it doesn't say anywhere that you have to complain about every single thing. You can complain, we can complain if we see that our complaint actually makes sense. However, to complain about putting pressure on the court and putting the problem on hold, we will do it again, but that is unacceptable. And the third thing. We have an increase in court fees calculated in the 2013 budget. Even 30 million Euros are foreseen for the Court fees. And I wonder who adopted the 2013 budget. Except Positive Slovenia, all of us here in the hall. And the government's domestic task is to actually raise these court fees the way it was supposed to. We have come to the conclusion that these judicial fees will not be raised for a cumulation of thirty million – we are at eight, ten, and I think that this is one smart compromise that will on the one hand lead to all the effects that can be achieved by judicial fees: it will provide certain inflows for the needs of justice, which in fact is the third branch of power in this country, which forms the basis of the rule of law. If we do not do so, the courts will finance each of us individually from their own pocket, from their taxpayer's money, but here it is a fairly fair principle that the financing of the courts is also partly provided by those who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 13. I'll put it to the debate. Please sign in. Six more Members and Members have been announced for the debate. She'll be the first to get the word Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, the Secretary of State reiterated what is essential in this amendment to Article 13. I would point out once again that the main concerns about this article, expressed by the Legal and Legislative Service, have indeed been addressed by this amendment tabled by the coalition. However, it was pointed out on the Court’s side that the costs of processing proposals under the enforcement and insurance procedure could be higher than those currently prescribed in court fees would cover that cost. But I would like to respond to a few more statements from Members. Unfortunately, I must conclude that some Members in this House do not really read the law. I will not be named to be offensive, but that someone is discussing in this debate how poor lady with 250 euros will pay a court fee or, I don't know, sir with 340 euros and won't be able to secure fundamental rights, that means they haven't even looked at article 3, before article 11, which is essentially the same article, which is essentially the same, just slightly complemented, which addresses and solves exactly this situation. In our legislation, we have an automatic exemption for persons receiving social security benefits. A person with a total income of 240 or 350 euros would, in my opinion, be very likely to be able to judge in this category, so that he is automatically entitled to the exemption of a court fee. Then, in all the cases listed above, the court, under the second paragraph and any subsequent paragraphs of this Article, shall have the option of assessing in an individual case, taking into account the property situation of the party and its family members, the value of the subject matter, shall be deemed to be different, depending on whether it is of great value or of small value, and the number of persons the party who survives may very widely be deemed by the court to exempt the payment of the tax to a person up to, say, 90 or in theory, up to 100 %. The point of this article is that the court would not, as was the case in the past. only automatically, every time someone exhibits a slightly worse asset situation, served the institute of complete exemption, but it is truly judged who is entitled to it. And this is also what we want to achieve in Positive Slovenia. Let them be forgiven in this particular case of payment of a court fee by those who really cannot pay it, which are social cases and so on. But not the different espaes and entrepreneurs who can easily show that they do not have income and property, but at the discretion of all circumstances, the court may find that this is not the case. So this forgiveness does sometimes go beyond all bounds. And this mixing in court fees, deciding on the workers in the Cologne, etc., again poor Mr Jankovic. I would only point out that neither the Municipality of Ljubljana nor Mr Jankovic was part of the payment service in Stožice and please stop this deception. Otherwise, just one more comment, given that the SDS repeatedly reiterates that the SDS will not participate in the budget implementation, will not help to fill the budget. A few more such screams were heard in the opposition. Yeah, well, then I really don't know what we're gonna do if you don't help. I thought we all had to help fill the budget together, because if the budget was empty, there would be no pensions, no salaries in the public sector, no salaries in the public sector, no social benefits, no salaries for teachers, no health workers, no hospital staff, soldiers, firefighters, etc. So I wouldn't be exactly bragging about how you don't want to help fill the budget. Once again, it is necessary to reiterate that the Law on Judicial Fees has been adopted for all categories of the population, including the richest, including economic societies. Here I must say that with my colleague Branislje, I almost fully agree with his debate, except for the work on tax compression. I think that the responsibility of the court, when it comes to large disputes, multimillion-dollar disputes, is much greater, more difficult work, and that in this case this proportionality in a taxi should also be known in the sense that something comes into the budget, it is said that large companies with millions of lawsuits also make an appropriate contribution. And also about the eligibility and injustice of those who serve judicial protection. Certainly no one claimed that we were saying that people were unjustifiably serving judicial protection. But there are always people who do. They even have a name. They're called quaerolants. These are people who unjustifiably submit new and new court applications, some become practically dependent on it. It's almost some kind of condition. So there's one and the other. What I think is important, and I have already said in my presentation, is that, following our regulation and regulation in most European countries, those who succeed at the end of the trial who applied the claim which is justified, in accordance with the law, and who are then satisfied, are said to win, according to their own words, to receive all the costs of the trial, including the fees paid back. We will not support the SDS amendment in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Masha Kocier. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u106	Very briefly. I think I may have been misinterpreted in one part about that budget charge. I myself have said that I do not support the charging of the budget at the expense of taxpayers who, in this case, seek their right or want some injustice to be done to them. That's the way I talked. I said before myself that budget charging can be done on other occasions. We spoke to you three hours ago at SDS, so I think I was misunderstood. At the same time, I wonder which of the Slovenians would go to court and pay court fees to make a little mockery of the court. I don't think he's going to give 30, 50 or 200 euros to the court. However, if this is the case, I find it perverse and suggest other measures to be taken by the courts. I only said that I would not support the charging of the budget at the expense of taxpayers in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Thus, on the side of the debate on the amendment to Article 13, I should say that it seems perfectly normal for this law to be revitalised slightly from 2008 to today, to adapt to today's situation and to accept the correction of this law mainly from the point of view that all these relations, the proportions which are to the costs of the procedure and the fees which are payable to certain procedures, are actually applied. It is quite clear that any such activity, service, must be paid. And the one that's worth more, for which there's more costs, has to be paid more. And this law is only adopted by us from this point of view and the harmonisation of proportionality with costs and the level of the fee. Certainly not, or perhaps only in the second phase, do we accept it as a full budget, because we know that this is also welcome. Of course, it is welcome, but certainly not in the first place for the budget. At the end of the day, the four and a half million that the budget will receive on the basis of an increase in court fees is also a sum that is not negligible. However, I very much agree with Mr Branisle, who speaks of you ultimately forming this budget, in which you have already anticipated an increase in court fees. How would we then fill this gap, this hole in the budget, if we did not interfere with this law on the establishment of new higher court fees? But at the end of the day, it also bothers me because the same law was proposed or prepared on your part. We have some things in common, and you've already committed them, and now we're trying to put them into effect in this coalition. However, I cannot agree that the reform of the law on judicial fees creates a constitutional category of the right to judicial protection. This Article 3 is very well specified and also stipulates that it is possible in certain social, weak categories to abolish this amount or the legal fee altogether, to place it in a gradual payment or on certain meals. So it seems to me that for all categories, all things are taken care of in this law in such a way that there is no beginning of this constitutional category of the right to judicial protection. Article 13 – Enforcement and the insurance or amendment proposed by my colleagues on my left seems to me that some of the content you are trying to achieve by deleting this article has been removed from a concept. I think that the proposaler has pursued some integrity, that, last but not least, the amendment to Article 13 has already been modified on the basis of the findings and the observations we have made, so it seems to me that it is absolutely unnecessary, especially now to intervene in this article and to delete it once again with your amendment completely. Finally, let me say this, I think we Slovenians are a very contentious nation, that we like to justify ourselves very much, that we like to go to court. And even when it comes to turning a shadow. However, this correction of the Law on Judicial Fees may also contribute to the possibility that anyone who has a path to the court will reconsider whether it is worth it or whether it is realistic, and that the barometer or that tongue on the scale may also be able to decide whether to seek judicial protection or employment at the end of the day, whether for a small matter or for a small thing, a court with a larger caseload, which we know is already such that they are slightly burdened by the proceedings themselves, and it would probably be better if the court were really only dealing with those very important matters. So I have absolutely no further comments. Unfortunately, I will not support this amendment and cannot support Article 13, but I will support the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. Now Mrs Sonja Ramšak has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Secretary of State, I agree, thank you for the warning, have indeed been reduced in the committee hearing itself, but I would say that such reduced fees as we are talking about today are still too high. Why? I respect the opinion of Mr Branisl, who said that debtors must settle their obligations. I completely agree with that. And that those who can and who have deliberately avoided settling their obligations also pay for it. In doing so, however, we forget, respected colleagues and colleagues, why enforcement is increasing. The implementation is increasing to 60,000 lost jobs, to an increase in the number of social recipients or recipients of social assistance. People's hardships are also increasing on this account. And these people with minimum pensions, social assistance, for those who remain unemployed and do not have the right to compensation for unemployment and the like, these people have difficulties not being able to settle their obligations in terms of electricity, plumbing, sewage, garbage removal. And here it goes up, and here someone is very well served also at the expense of good taxes. I know that both I and you are getting into the National Assembly at your e-mails a huge crowd of people who can't settle the electricity bill because they can't feed their child. And these were you full of mouths when we were in the Yangtze government, when some of you were in the opposition, today you're in the coalition. And these people have a problem that they can't settle accounts. And what does the state do? Did we see how many new jobs we would open up yesterday when we discussed the budget balance? I didn't see that in the paper. I am convinced that citizens want to settle their obligations and that they cannot because of their personal difficulties. That a mother who has 260 Euros of social support and two children and whose husband, when possible in a divorce procedure, does not pay her maintenance, does not have the money to pay the most necessary costs that have been incurred, as I have already stated. And here are people's hardships, and here we have to do it, if we're on one side increasing judicial fees, then let's take another step. This is the fact that those who are without income, in some way the State will take care of the settlement of its obligations, but not that those companies, which then go into enforcement procedures to serve on this account, will be the State. These people need to be taken care of. In some countries, they have done what we do for some insolvent companies when we give them assistance, and we do not delay the settlement of these obligations to a citizen who loses his job. This is our country's problem, this is the problem of the plight of our citizens and citizens. And there's a place where we have to warn. What did Croatia do? We all know that today citizens also have open transaction accounts, that banks have given them high levels, and when they lose their jobs, of course, because all their revenues go away, the bank takes away all their funds. What do those who file enforcement do? They sit on all human assets and assets. Of course, they can't do social support, but someone, for example, had maybe 500 euros to live on for five months, and they can't do that because they're blocking everything. And what did Croatia do? Croatia has even made it possible for the government to call on banks to submerge these high levels into favourable loans, so that people can turn their limits into loans, so that they can stay and settle and live normally. And with these court fees and the heighting of these court fees, in my personal opinion, we are in fact causing even more hardship for these already poor people who have nothing to eat, not even for bread, than you like to stress. When we've had hungry kids, even though there's no talking about it for months. But there are people coming into the parliamentary offices who literally lose one euro. We receive e-mails, and we need to respond to these hardships through judicial fees. And that's why I'm saying that when we were talking about the Pahor government and lobbying with lawyers, we immediately raised the legal tariffs. Apparently, this coalition has very good ties with the judiciary today, and that is why we are raising these court fees. And I believe you'll object to me. But no one takes care of that citizen and a citizen who has nothing left literally naked and barefoot because others have taken advantage of him. And you need to be protected, you need to be helped. But not in new taxes and new court fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. Now the word is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u112	Good-bye to all of you! When it comes to constitutional rights, he must always be extremely careful. This is not just the opinion of the Constitutional Court, but you can see it in the case law of the constitutional courts of all countries in the Roman-German field of law, which also belongs to Slovenia. When it comes to the right of trial, to judicial protection, to the exercise of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, these are constitutionally protected goods. It is the fundamental constitutional rights of every citizen, every citizen, everyone who lives and works here. As a result, any attempt to restrict such a right is clearly contrary to the Constitution. And any change in the law, even when it comes to the issue of court fees, in this area must be extremely thoughtful – I say that it does not meet these conditions. This law has not been properly discussed in the professional public. He was proposed for horace, you all know that, even the applicants themselves admitted that he had not been proposed in accordance with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities adopted by the National Assembly. Secondly, this law will have a different effect, as the proposer points out, because the proposer puts himself on the lie. If you look at the introduction to the budget, you will see what he himself wrote — that changes in the legislation, when the fees are raised, have a major impact on the number of new complaints, not so much on the level of income or, in a given case, on the level of court fees covered, which is very interesting. So what will happen in practice? In a little while, the coalition and the government are likely to burst, see how we've reduced the judicial backlog. But, I'm sorry, this is a violation of the constitutional rights of the people. And I am sure that very soon there will be some kind of proceedings before the Constitutional Court just because of the topic that we are talking about today. Even if you apologize for the possibility of forgiveness, if it's what it used to be, it's not true. It is true that a partial exemption is now possible, which was previously not known by law, but is a very narrow field for those who can enforce it, given the criteria so far. The criteria so far would have been valid if the SD Group amendment had been adopted, and I voted for it myself, but you all voted against the coalition and left your coalition colleagues well on the line. So much for coalition coordination when it comes to this area. In such a case, it is difficult to find all the arguments against because it is primarily an area of respect for fundamental rights. And to address this in a way that was once one of the debates from the ruling coalition, when, people complain so little, because they are bored, you know, it's kind of inappropriate, even disrespectful endings to citizens and citizens who exercise their right. The current level of court fees is abnormally high according to the standard of living of people. That's what you need to know. In this case, it also affects certain areas which are extremely problematic. Personally, I wonder if this is a preparation for another tax. I'll tell you why. There is an increase in recovery of certain other fees. Interestingly, in doing so, a real estate tax is being prepared, which is expected to increase the tax burden of individuals with real estates by 5 times, and should cover everything, including the smallest apartments, which is all. You know, the first suggestion was that up to 170 square metres would be an exemption if, of course, you lived in such an apartment. It's supposed to be all over now. That's how you presented it. And in practice, what will this mean for those who may be driving for force from the previous system, not renewing or investing, with what small house or somewhere in the countryside, or having one apartment in the block? Now they will literally experience a new nationalisation because they will sit on their last remaining property tax administration because they will not be able to pay this new tax. And we're going to witness a new nationalization, and that's exactly what the poorest layers are. Social differences will continue to increase, and to a large extent, as you have proposed, under this law, the rise of court fees could be understood as a pre-preparation for such a measure, so that these people would not try to protect at least what they have, in some way, the last possibility of a human being being being. And if serious arguments don't convince you in any way, I'm going to try some more sense of humor, I hope you get over it. Look, the only thing that comes out of all the acts that we've been dealing with for two days now is that, in fact, one analyst could understand that this is a paradigm for understanding taxpayers as dairy cows. But you know, if this is about this paradigm, then every further step after the VAT hike, after everything that's devastating is going to work on Slovenian entrepreneurship and the economy and you've done in the last period, instead of saving primarily yourself, it's all like that little joke about Edward Kardel. A farmer came to him and said, "The cow gives you too little milk." And he said to Cardell, "He's giving too little milk? Less feed, more milk!" More taxes, more molars. Well, he did. And the second time he came, he said, "It's worse." Cardell said, "Then no more feeding." And a farmer came to the third and said to Kardelj, "Well, is he all right now?" "No," he said, "and now the cow's gone mad first, and then she's dead." Well, let's ask ourselves which way your policy is going.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. The debate will continue with the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! We are really talking about Article 13 of the Law on Court Fees, but there have been many things in this Chamber and at least what kind of thing it might be good to remind. It should be recalled that the Law on Judicial Fees was adopted on 1 April 2008. Some of the most vocal observers, what the current coalition does and how it milks citizens and citizens, were then part of that coalition. And perhaps it reminds us of how they justified the rise of court fees at the time. One of the arguments for this was also pedagogical, so to speak, that the increased fees would encourage the parties to conclude judicial settlements and other forms of early conclusion of the proceedings, which is good and what is now happening and therefore the judicial backlog is shrinking. But then it was also said that promoting a more rational initiation of judicial proceedings was that educational function. They therefore concluded that it would not be a matter of dissuading individuals from the enforcement of judicial protection, but would teach them not to initiate judicial proceedings because the fee was slightly higher. But that's close to what's allowed to the gods, not allowed oxes, if we're talking about cattle cases. What remains to be said, the then coalition also pointed out that some new taxes are such as to further increase the inflow to the state budget. That was the way it was supposed to be said, but it was said at a time when there were no problems in the country of Slovenia, since no one, was said yesterday, by prominent, well-established experts, had predicted or perceived the impending crisis. That was then, and now it wouldn't be. And since it has already been mentioned that the budget had foreseen the budget adopted by the previous coalition to anticipate or take into account the rise in court fees, let me remind you that this time it was again pointed out that the Social Democrats also supported the current budget. I repeatedly point out why we supported him. Due to the adoption of the amendment, 16 million for higher education, not for anything else. But then you might remember, an amendment was also adopted that raised funds for the diet of children and students or students. And so now there is no more talk about the bad conditions when schools are unable to provide adequate nutrition for those most at risk. This is what we need to know when we talk about and refer to the poor situation of many people in this country, and this is also what we stress by the Social Democrats. At the same time, however, I would point out that, for those with the lowest income, it is also possible under this law, as was the case under the law in force, to impose exemption from the payment of a court fee if this is based on social benefits. Since you wanted to point out in some way what the Social Democrats support in this law and what not to say, I was alone on the Justice Committee, I supported the amendment proposed by the three coalition parties, which, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of this judicial fee, were provided for in the law that we received and the opinion of which the Legislative and Legal Service has written, has reduced in accordance with the recommendation or request of the Legislative and Legal Service for proportionality to be taken into account. The additional explanation of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the amendments take into account the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service. This still allows any parliamentary group to table its amendments as a proposal for amendments to the Committee. And that's what we did. We have done so by making an amendment that touches on some unfair proceedings. This was an amendment to Article 18, but it was not voted. But there will be no mistake, for the opposition of that amendment did not support it either. So this right of reference to our amendments is several times overrated. You didn't support them. The same as you did not support that proposal that we tabled for the deletion of Article 3 because we considered that it should remain the competence to respect exemption, partial exemption, deferral or remuneration still on the shoulders of the judicial branch of authority, but not that the law stated that the legislator said that the only reason for the full exemption was this status, which is determined by the social benefits. It's the only difference and nothing else. We considered that, in the face of circumstances, someone who is not a recipient of social assistance could also be in such a situation that it would be right to be completely exempt from the payment of a court fee, which the court could determine. That's all this is about. And don't work a spectre where it's not. I can't say, no one has said this, and I'm not saying this now that this is the path that brings us to the pleasure and joy of raising the fees of justice. But it is fair to say that this was envisaged in the budget tabled by the current coalition, and this is foreseen in a higher amount than is now expected from the anticipated consequences of this amended, thus an updated bill. Once again, I will not support the proposed SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Mr. Grimes, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you. First of all, I personally voted for that amendment of yours, so I don't understand this part of your debate. Secondly, I don't know how you understood mine, but this article refers to execution, of course, there are no out-of-court settlements there. Once we get to the execution, the story is over. By the way, when you mentioned that, you touched that part when I was joking. You know, at the end of that story, when a farmer found out that a cow had died, Kardelj must have cried out, "Oh, boy, I've had so many good ideas!" You know, it's about that with your ideas about new and new taxes, new and new tax hikes, such and different ones. Poor Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Ms Alenka Jeraj was also reported for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the amendment because I am not in favour of always putting new funds into a system that is obviously not working or having bad effects. However, I have already said several times that not all judges are the same, nor anywhere else, that we should deal significantly more with the system as such and arrange it, but not just always provide new finance and wait for it to improve itself. I wouldn't repeat things we all know and have been told several times. The most expensive judiciary, the most judges per capita, at the same time the most lagging behind. We're not gonna solve this by hanging a cab. In fact, the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out that there could be imbalances. Indeed, some corrections were made on the committee, but I am assessing that not everyone who could have been. And those who tell us that we have already prepared this in the previous government, Mr Minister, who was indeed our government's minister, presented the reform of the judiciary to us, I think that once in December or at the beginning of the year, January, and then we also made our comments to him, including our comments on fees, which he then did not take into account, so perhaps we have over a few words that some of you have expressed here. We challenge this or ask ourselves about the proposal to increase court fees for procedures under the law governing enforcement and insurance. We do not know what this means for business operators, we know that they are already in great trouble. This will certainly affect their business and thus limit their right to judicial protection. That's the kind of thing we want to talk about. Then we impose taxes on some new things and those you talked about taxpayers' money, whether we give it to them from the budget we collect them, or whether they pay it themselves, and that is taxpayers' money. What I would like to point out when I said that the problem is in the system and if we raise the fees, that you are assessing that this is also one of the effects, that there will be fewer complaints, complaints and so on. Constitutional Judge Jan Zobac recently said what the problem was. If we had a system where similar matters would be decided on, it is said that we would have a practice where everyone involved would know what the outcome of the judgment would be – similar matters would be decided on, and in this case cases cases would be reduced. Why does this happen to us that anyone with five minutes of time should file a complaint? Because he never knows if he might fail. And every attempt, and maybe in the end, will be decided in his favor. It's a system thing. We have a problem with the system. If similar matters were to be decided on in a similar way and the outcome would be expected in different areas for similar or similar matters, then people would be less inclined to press charges. This makes a lot of sense to me, because, by hanging a taxi and so on, there are so many cases and so many delays that everyone who has five minutes of time actually makes a complaint or many times say, "If you do, I will complain, because then things will get old." Not because he'd be right, but because he knows that the case will last a long time in court, which means he'll probably be out of date and he won't have to pay for it, even though maybe he knows he's done something wrong. In short, we should do more on this system. And what Mrs Potrata told us that in 2008 we evaluated something, because things can change over time. And what I just said, personally, I didn't know at the time, but apparently some people in the judicial system know that. We should really, instead of raising taxes, and we hope that fewer people will decide to sue, take other measures to address this systemic problem that I have been talking about. This may not happen to us, however, because the Faculty of Law is severely throbbing experts who also study at universities abroad have international experience, but God forbid any clever knowledge to be brought back to the country. They must be disabled at every turn. These things should be settled, and then we wouldn't have so many judicial setbacks, and we would have saved a lot of other things. I will support the amendment tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraj. I now ask if there is still a desire to discuss Article 13. If not, then we are going to discuss Article 22 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. I'm asking if there's a desire to discuss it. Dr. Vinko Gorenak signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much. It's about Article 22, I think you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u121	Yes, to Article 22.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u122	In our view, we therefore propose deleting this Article, there are no compelling reasons for establishing a new fee for entering the service right into the land book. The explanations are very similar. I'm not going to cut back on time, but I'd rather respond to that school that we heard earlier from Mrs Potrat, what we were saying in 2008, when we finally got a raise in court fees. Yeah, I don't know what to say. Mrs Potrata, there is something more to know, not just some explanation, from a magnetogram prepared by professional colleagues. In 2008 it was the last year when wages in Slovenia rose. Payments rose by 25% between 2004 and 2008, due to inflation in real terms, this is clear, and it is perfectly logical that in 2008 we advocated an increase in court fees. It makes perfect sense if all citizens and pensioners and all get 25% more in those four years. Today, however, they receive 25% less than in 2008, so we are in 2004 and nowhere else with income, so it would be logical to lower taxes rather than raise them. So much in response to this beautiful saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there might still be a desire to discuss it. I don't see any wishes. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Is there perhaps a desire to discuss this article? I don't see a desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, honourable Members, honourable Members. The proposal for a new Law on Courts provides for the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary, increases the quality of control over judicial administration by establishing a supervisory service, more efficient management of staff in courts, provides for the possibility of deploying district judges to district courts to ensure the implementation of quality criteria, and also provides for the transfer of jurisdiction to the public for judicial decisions under financial law from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the Administrative Court, as well as for the updating of the protection and processing of personal data and public access to official publications. The main objectives of the novel are: to increase the efficiency and independence of the judiciary, to increase the quality of control over judicial administration and to increase the accountability of the judiciary. To the first objective, that is to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, we are approaching the transfer of human resources powers from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Another objective, this is to increase the quality of control over judicial administration, is to set up a supervisory service to oversee the organisation of the proceedings. The third objective, the increase in responsibility, we follow, is being achieved by stressing the responsibilities of the Presidents of the Courts. An important objective is also the possibility of deploying district judges to work at a district court in order to ensure that the quality criteria are met. This objective also imposes an even burden on first-degree courts, i.e. district courts which are overloaded, thus complementing staff and, on the other hand, exploiting the human resources reserves created in certain district courts. Among the objectives of the law, let me mention the deletion of the age limit for running for the President of the Court, the modernisation of the protection and processing of personal data and the extension of the period during which the President of the Court or the Director is required to conduct compulsory training. The debates so far have already highlighted much about the proposed amendment. I would like to point out that the new Law on Courts represents the first set of amendments aimed at increasing the efficiency of the courts, which pursue the objectives of better court management and improving the quality of judicial control. In the light of the European Commission's warnings, which relate mainly to the length of judicial proceedings, it is necessary to establish time-limits for the work of the courts as an important novelty for the amendment of the law. However, these time standards are foreseen for all types of courts and also for types of proceedings. In view of the many evidences, we also reiterate from the judiciary that the Office for the Control of the Organisation of Courts in its work will by no means interfere with the independence of the judge in the performance of the judicial service, in the presumption of innocence, in the confidentiality of the judicial procedure or in the guarantee of a fair trial. It is also too much of a fear that the supervisory service will look into the files, as this law expressly prohibits it and provides for the possibility of looking into the files only in the case of such checks, as the Ministry of Justice has pointed out or implemented so far. Once again, I will highlight the possibility of deploying district judges to the district courts as one of the solutions that the Supreme Court has identified as one of the key acquisitions of the novel. Since there has also been much debate about the transfer of powers from the Council of Justice to the Supreme Court, I would like to say that the aim of the novel is to clean up. Let the Supreme Court be the one dealing with the organization of business and let the Council of Justice be the one dealing with the judiciary and the judge. Finally, I would like to propose that the third draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts be discussed at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! On 28 June, the Committee on Justice, as a parent working body, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Courts, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Council of Justice, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the Council of State. The representative of the Government of Justice, Dr. Senko Plitčanič, did not provide an additional explanation of the articles and expressed support for the amendments tabled. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments from their written legal opinion were largely duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and in the proposals for amendments to the Committee. Again, it drew attention to Article 26, which introduces a supervisory service for the organisation of the conduct of the courts, which will operate within the Ministry of Justice, which raised the question whether the powers of this service do not constitute an excessive interference of the executive branch with the judiciary and thus violates the principle of the division of power. It drew attention to the importance of protective mechanisms to prevent any excessive interference. With regard to Article 30, which allows for the allocation of a district judge who otherwise fulfils the conditions for a district judge to judge matters under the jurisdiction of the district court, she said that the proposed arrangement was not disputed in terms of the constitutional principle of equality before the law, since the allocated district judge on rights such as wages would not be equal to the district judge. At the same time, such a provision interferes with the system of organisation and jurisdiction of the courts and the performance of the judicial service. It also drew attention to the provision of Article 49, which, on the basis of the discharge of the Supreme Court, is effectively transferring the competence to decide at first instance in an administrative dispute from the Supreme Court to the Administrative Court, with the validity of the powers laid down by seven financial laws. This competence and special procedural rules remain unchanged in those laws, which is controversial in terms of legal certainty. The proposed transposition is not substantively linked to the material provisions of the proposed law and therefore does not belong to transitional provisions aimed at the transition from one to another material arrangement. The representative of the State Council, Mr Jernej Verbič, said that the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation supports the proposal of the law, as it will help to increase the efficiency and independence of the judiciary, increase the quality of control over judicial administration and increase the responsibility of the judiciary. The Commission agrees with measures aimed at strengthening the rule of law and the confidence of the population and the economy in the rule of law and the rule of law. The representative of the Council of Justice, President Janez Vlaj, said that the Council of Justice was opposed to swift and partial actions in the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, as the changes should be based on strategic guidelines for the development of the judiciary and in-depth professional debate. The proposed novelties would therefore have to be withdrawn from the legislative procedure. He stressed that the public commitment concluded between the Supreme Court and the Government with a view to improving the situation in the judiciary greatly exacerbates the position of judges. In order to increase efficiency, there will be undue pressure within the judiciary as well. According to the Council of Justice, only autonomous, self-confident, educated, experienced judges can give their reputation back to the judiciary. The representative of the Supreme Court, Secretary-General Janko Marinko, said that for the Supreme Court, the solutions brought by the proposed law related to the possibility of deploying district judges to resolve matters under district jurisdiction, by determining the number of courts in specialised departments, by control of the judicial administration and by transferring the powers to decide on judicial protection under financial laws from the Supreme to the Administrative Court. The transfer of powers from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court is not opposed, although it is an additional financial and personnel burden for them, but they do not think it will significantly contribute to the efficiency and efficiency of the courts. In the ensuing debate, the coalition Members supported the proposed amendments, which will help to make the judiciary more effective. In their view, the proposed law does not interfere with the independence of the trial and the pressure on the judiciary, as it is the result of a broad debate. The opposition Members expressed the view that the proposed law was a step in the right direction but not large enough. In their view, autonomy and reputation must be earned by the judges themselves. The Committee then adopted its amendments and amendments to the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS groups. The Committee then forwarded [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and accepted them. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerich. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 15th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled from de 10 July 2013. I am thus putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups and asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Is there a desire to discuss it? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u128	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Even though you have only put to the debate Article 12, let me say only two or three sentences on the subject of the whole law and our relationship to this law. But I'm going to take another look at the individual amendments. As far as the law on courts is concerned, the situation is such, we are in such a situation at the moment, that it is all against the Minister. The Council of Justice is against, the Supreme Court is against, the Legislative and Legal Service has concerns about unconstitutionality and so on and so on. Actually, the minister's kind of lonely. Even in the coalition, I find that according to the amendments you wanted to send him some articles "scanslats", it would be said, or soften them and bring them closer to the positions of the court and the judicial council. As far as we are concerned, we will not support the marriage, but I will not oppose it. The law is going in the right direction, but a very small step has been taken, such as a baby or an old child, I will say, a year and two months, because we are happy to take such a step. And we are happy to take such a step in this case. But there is no help for the Slovenian judiciary. Here you need that sprinter, you know, with that stick that jumps very high or very far. That's why we won't vote for it. But there won't be a voice against it. As I repeat, the law has the right tendency, we will even try to help you, the coalition or the minister where we see that, within the coalition, mine action is, because some parliamentary groups within the coalition, I see that the SD has tabled individual amendments that go against the minister, according to the local statement. In order to avoid the little step that we have been looking forward to, the SD has come to mind, we will also support those amendments. But I'll tell you what amendments these are.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see Mrs. Masha Kociper that you would like. Anyone else? You have the floor, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The debate is under way on the amendment to Article 12, which is why a few words about this amendment should first be heard. As stated in the report of the Committee, the representative of the Supreme Court, as one of the key solutions that the Supreme Court believes can improve the functioning of justice, has highlighted greater flexibility in the deployment of district judges to or from the workplace, pardon, to the resolution of cases under the jurisdiction of district courts. This amendment interferes with this issue and defines more clearly the participation of district judges in the work of the specialised department. This is an amendment that follows this logic completely and also the Supreme Court's proposal, so that in this part I cannot agree with my colleague Gorenak. Most of the solutions in this law were created in cooperation with the expert, in close cooperation with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, some of the Presidents of the courts who highlighted the problems in practice and then resolved those problems. Of course, there are also some clearer provisions that should lead to greater efficiency in the work of the courts. It is true, however, that Gorenak said that everyone in the judiciary, in particular the representatives of the Council of Justice, disagrees with these solutions. That's how it is. In Positive Slovenia, of course, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss this any more, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 12. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm opening an application for discussion. The first one has the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice President, I will not greet others because I already have you. I would, however, like to say in my opening remarks on the amendment to Article 26 that it is not a matter of mine action. What we have announced in the opinion of the Group of Members on the general examination of the law is that we have concerns about the proposed law. And what we would like to achieve in the parliamentary group cannot be achieved either way because the supervisory service is included in the law. This amendment corrects or only pursues one of the activities which we believe can be mitigated as much as possible under the proposed law. What's this all about? I understand that at the principle level we are all advocates of the principle of independence of the judiciary, that we are also aware of the importance of confidence in the judiciary for the good functioning of the judiciary. And that, now I speak for myself, because I have been observing myself lately and I cannot agree with it, but the erosion of trust in the judiciary is an attempt to intervene in a way that is unacceptable because of constitutional separation between the various branches of government. Attempts at such an intervention are noticeable, they cannot be overlooked, not from yesterday or today, but they have taken some time. It is interesting, however, that they have been strengthened at a time when it is possible for the judiciary to see that it achieves exactly what is required of the judiciary: greater efficiency or, to be more precise, reduction of judicial backlogs. I agree, not to co-ordination, but to coordinate the work of the court. And the supervisory service that this law introduces is, in my opinion, an excessive intervention in the independence of the judiciary. I believe that I do not have a paternalistic relationship with the judiciary, nor do I intend or cannot take a position when I declare myself an advocate of the judiciary, I am merely expressing my own personal position, and I am stressing this in particular. For I believe that the judiciary is capable of self-reflection and that the forms of control are already embedded in the work of the judiciary and that such judicial control as is now envisaged in the law is not acceptable to me. But once again, that's my opinion, and it can't be ruled out, because now it's built into marriage. However, the amendment to Article 26 only takes one indent in this proposed article, if you look at, propose, and this is the amendment of the parliamentary group, we propose an amendment to prevent or correct, in the third indent of the third indent of paragraph 65a of the new article, this indent, which speaks of interviewing with the judicial staff. It was also in its original form with other staff in court. Why? This practically allows for discussions, however, to be labelled with any other word, including judicial officers in matters of trial by means of an administrative procedure, which is not compatible with the constitutional principle of the division of power. If you look at who is a member of the judicial staff group, these are the directors of the courts, the judicial assistants, the professional co-workers, the judicial trainees, the director and the professional staff at the IT centre and other employees at the court. Now, other officers in court, it's a very broad set, all of them, so to speak. In our opinion, however, the purpose of the law is sufficient to interview the leading officials who represent and represent the court and who are ultimately responsible for the functioning of the court. And this also affects their position in court, their prospects for advancement and so on. This is quite clear, and we believe that that principled guard referred to in paragraph 5 which is very principled in nature should be moved to a concrete level and corrected in order to be able, however, to go to a concrete one. I stress, however, now that Mr Minister has also come to the Chamber, that my personal position here is much more rigorous than that of the Group. I am completely opposed to this work, I do not think that it is a well-thought-out measure with all possible effects. The practice so far also speaks of possible insights into the judicial file. And this principled shield can be removed. However, so that there would be no more talk about any mines – and now we have gone from cattle to the military, but I would say that the parliamentary group is also a co-signatory of the amendments to Articles 12, 30 and 49. So look for cracks elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We're at Article 26, and I'll say something about it in the end, but one doesn't know what to say after the debate we've heard. With no one actually satisfied with the judiciary. The Minister has a lot of plans with them, he keeps dealing with them, he struggles with them, while top lawyers in the world and at home are not satisfied that GRECO is not satisfied that the European Commission is not satisfied and then we hear in Parliament one such praise in justice. You can't answer that, because you can tell if the pay phone is behind time, which is possible, or if it has any special intentions, that it speaks so beautifully of the judiciary and smiles at everyone else. You don't know what to say anymore. With regard to the amendment to Article 26, this is one of those articles where only SD has signed it. The others in the coalition didn't sign it. But even for viewers, it's important to make clear what's going on. The point is that the minister has set up a job to oversee the judiciary to a certain extent. What do the Social Democrats propose? That the words "and the judicial staff" should be deleted. This means that these investigators will be — a mine! This means that SD wants – what? To prevent the minister from doing what he wanted to do — to have a job that would be at least about and effectively able to go to court and perform some kind of review that would not be special in any way. But at least we could do that. Now the SD wants – what?Oh, my God! By prohibiting these overseers from speaking to the judicial staff by means of this amendment. This means that we can talk — what? The SD wants this task force to come to court, to be told in advance, the secretary is waiting for them below – I know what it looks like, I went to the D.A. Then they take you to the President of the Court in this case, and we can ask the President of the Court something else, maybe someone else, but the supervisors can't talk to anyone else – no computers, no registerers, no people who keep records, etc. The SD wants to take those powers with this minister's service, which we expect to be under-authorised. How else can we call it that they want to incapacitate the infant who took the first steps? The Minister made them in that sense. We will oppose this amendment in order to allow the Minister to do as much as he can. We will vote against this amendment to help the coalition. This is an attempt by the SD to mine the minister. That's all. We're really not going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. You have a replica, mag. Spending? It's a debate. Ms Maša Kociper has already applied for the debate, then she has the word mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Perhaps I would explain in a broader way that if someone listened to us, it would be easier, and that would explain why we did not sign the proposed amendment in Positive Slovenia. The solution proposed in Article 65a, referred to in Article 26 of the Law, is indeed within the framework of what colleague Gorenak has just presented. However, in view of the importance of this debate, it would state the competences of this newly established supervisory service: the exercise of judicial supervision, in particular with regard to the organisation of the conduct of the courts, the supervision of the quality of the court's work in the execution of cases of judicial administration, the carrying out of tax checks under the provisions of the law governing judicial fees, the review of fees, the enforcement of the court order and the conduct of administrative checks in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the examination of the minutes and other documentation for the conduct of cases of judicial administration and the clarification of matters relating to judicial administration, the request for the submission of information on the conduct of the court, the work of the President or the Director of the Court in matters of judicial administration, the organisation and supervision of the work of the court and the performance of the individual tasks of the judicial administration. It is solely the supervision of the judicial administration, which means — for those who may not know it — only control over the organisation of the work of the court, and certainly not control over the trial itself. Therefore, — this is crucial — the judicial department cannot look into the file on the contents and interview the judge, the judge. He can't. The law specifically provides that the supervisory service in the exercise of its powers shall not interfere with the independence of the judge in the performance of the judicial service, in the presumption of innocence, in the confidentiality of the judicial procedure or in the guarantee of a fair trial, and shall not examine the judicial files except in the part relating to such and administrative exemptions. Once the supervisory authority has carried out a review of the judicial administration, it may submit a report to the President of the Court or to the Minister. The Judicial Administration's office can't do anything, decide to sanction anyone. There's nothing under the authority of this service run by a judge. That's what they did in court. It's run by a judge assigned to the Ministry. That is why there is an extremely large number of fuses here, and the whole arrangement is trying to contribute only to making it even clearer that procedural tasks are being carried out within the deadlines, so that it is not in time to decide that there is an ageing of cases, that there is no sign of a public court hearing in one case for months or months to review whether everything is okay with regard to fees, so that there are no anomalies mentioned in the previous debate. This is a matter for the administration of justice, and it is not in any way a matter for trial. If we accept the proposed amendment, which says that the judicial staff will be deleted – let me read out who the judicial staff are under Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure. These are Court Directors, Court Assistants, Professional Fellows, Judicial Trainees, Director and Professional Workers in the Information Centre and Other Workers in the Court. Once again, the training of the judicial staff suggests that these are not persons who would know the contents of the case and the contents of the file, but persons who must ensure that the process is ongoing. Already with the amendment on the parent’s working body, it was deleted from this dictatorship, where it was originally said that interviews with other employees in court could be conducted. This provision was indeed pointless. What kind of employees are the cleaners? I don't know. So that provision went out. But if that provision goes out, then I don't know what this judicial department would do. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak is a master at word conversion. The time he sets me up is unworthy to discuss and answer because it is depressed, and I am already used to putting myself in such a superior position over me. But telling me that I was talking in superlatives about the judiciary is a little too much. That's what you'll believe, Mr. Gorenak, who was involved in the transmission the moment you spoke, because you're saying that I said that. What is worth mentioning, however, is that in the recommendations that we discussed at least two times in Parliament at the plenary session, and which I have also disputed with the Minister – at the time it was not, but I have said that this was not the case – which came with regard to Slovenia's 2013 National Reform Programme, the seventh recommendation says: "Congratulate the efforts so far to further reduce the duration of trials at first instance in civil and economic cases and the number of cases pending consideration in particular in matters relating to enforcement." As far as enforcement is concerned, I will not speak because the amendment has been adopted, but if you read and understand what this recommendation has found – that the efforts so far need to be upgraded. The Council of Europe noted that efforts in this country to regulate the situation in the judiciary cannot be denied, that they need to be upgraded, and that everything in the graphs in the second document can be understood that we are in different situations in different types of judicial proceedings, that we are better equipped, that the report was based on 2010 and that there was then Lukenda and something else at the same time, as they covered the cost data – all of this has already been said. But nothing matters because Mr Gorenak says again what it is – now I am just waiting for him to say that we have 72 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, which he regularly said. And also the GRECO report — what is it about? Strengthen the role of the Council of Justice! I didn't say in a word that the judiciary was great. I even said I wasn't his lawyer or his lawyer. Nobody put me in this position and I don't stand up for myself. All I am saying is that if we want to provide the rule of law, then we need to build confidence in the legal institutions, the country's institutions. We're not doing this because we're okay with the report one time, and we're not okay another time. What was the consideration of the report at the meeting of the Justice Chamber? Where were the comments then? What do the statistics show? It takes a little seriousness to deal with such difficult and to operate the rule of law with such important things. I will easily correct my opinion and make sure that the future shows that everything in this law is in such a way that it holds the constitutional opinion that there will be no doubt from the European authorities. You cannot say that there are no concerns from the judicial branch of power. I can't, I can't, and I don't want to hear them. It's not about any mines, it's just that some warnings are being heard, and these warnings are serious. I don't want to act irresponsiblely. As it is said, there is now only one small part of the amendment for which we propose a change. This control service remains built into the system, but from beautiful words to reality, sometimes it is a long distance, often too long. I don't want to remind you of the entries and the like, and about what can be experienced within all of this, but I don't want to remind you, because we've already said a lot about when some signatures went missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Dr. Vinko Gorenak? It's a debate. He was previously appointed to the debate by Dr. Senko Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to say the following about what I have just heard. The fact is, judicial proceedings in Slovenia are too long. There's no doubt about that. It is also true that some movement has recently been achieved. There's no doubt about that either. I wouldn't waste time on what the commission said in the report, what GRECO said, etc. We've talked about this a lot. I think it is the common interest of all of us sitting in this House, both the coalitions and the opposition, that the situation in the judiciary be rectified quickly. Fixing is to shorten court proceedings. In doing so, the main responsibility lies with the judiciary alone. I have talked about this many times before, but the government and the legislative body – this Parliament – have part of their responsibility. In this context, this solution, which you have now discussed – a solution that makes it clearer, more transparent to regulate the control of the executive branch of power over the judicial branch of power in one part, as Mrs Kociper said nicely, in that part relating to the judicial administration. This has nothing to do with the trial, but it has to do with efficiency, it has to do with the reduction of judicial proceedings, and I believe that what is the basic objective is all of us. Let me say that both novels, such as the ones you are currently considering, as the ones that will be next in line — the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service — have been in line with the judiciary for quite a few months. In particular, this solution – the creation of a supervisory service – supports many in the judiciary. Not all of them, but a lot of people support that. Many in the Supreme Court also support this. I think that this is supported in the judiciary by all those who are well aware that, in achieving this fundamental objective, the necessary operational cooperation of the two branches of government, the executive branch of power and the judicial branch of authority is essential. They are aware that with such supervision, I repeat once again, even for Mrs Kociper, who deals only with the organisation of the proceedings, only with the judicial administration, and in no way with the trial itself, the judiciary is gaining justice. This control is not to instill in a person's nose and that it will be the purpose of himself, but to help the judiciary to better organise its work, all with the aim of shortening the time needed for a citizen, a citizen or a business to come to justice, to complete a trial in court in a short time, but not in the long term, as it has mostly taken place in all these years since Slovenia was independent. This is a common goal for all of us. This surveillance is in this function. The system of division of state authority into three branches is based on one authority overseeing another. The executive branch may supervise the judicial branch and even have to monitor it only in this part, in this part relating to the organisation of business, because it is related to efficiency, speed. The government is also responsible for this, and it is absolutely essential that it be able to control it. On the other hand, the judicial branch oversees the executive branch, etc., so that I do not explain all of this. This is an integral part of the system of State power sharing, which they know in all more of us developed democracies. Let me give you an example of this. A completely identical solution in France, an identical solution in Italy, is the same solution in Croatia and, you will not believe, in Finland, where the supervision of the executive branch through the Ministry of Justice is even greater than we propose. The powers conferred on the Ministry of Justice there in relation to the judiciary are significantly greater than those proposed for the supervisory service. If I conclude and refer to a comment by the opposition representative, Mr Gorenak, that the reforms we are proposing are only a glass of Cedevita for a cancer patient. Although I do not fully agree with this, I have already said that a whole series of other steps will be needed, and these steps will come in the autumn. These two amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, including the resolution of the control service, which is very important, are the first steps in this direction. I think that a glass of Cedevita will turn into an effective medicine once all these steps are complete. It'll be in the fall time, and then we'll follow each other by the end of the year. In any case, once again, I warn you, the goal that we are pursuing with these two novels, the common goal of all, the belief that you are sitting in Parliament, the common goal of all those who have a responsibility in Slovenia, is to change something to a better, common goal of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia – this is to shorten judicial proceedings. When it comes to trusting people in the functioning of the institutions of the rule of law, whose typical representative is the courts or the judiciary itself – this is also one of our fundamental objectives. If there is no trust in the institutions of the rule of law, there is nothing that can help us to reduce court proceedings. However, we all know that this is precisely the confidence of people in the institutions of the rule of law, in the judiciary associated with the duration of judicial proceedings, because judicial proceedings are too long because people are desperate because they no longer believe that they will ever come to the end of the proceedings, to their right, so they do not trust the judiciary. That is why we need to change this, and quickly, because we do not have the time of year and years to deal with this process. The judiciary – I am sure of this – is able, in cooperation with the government and the legislative body, to achieve this change in a short time. To remember, honourable Members and Members, the two novels are one of the first steps in achieving the commitment made by the Government and the judiciary to Slovenian citizens and citizens just to significantly reduce judicial proceedings by 2014. These changes are an instrument to achieve this objective, including a change that you have mentioned a little while ago – the control services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you very much. For the debate on Article 26 and the amendment tabled, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Mirko Brulc were announced. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u143	There is no point in polarising with Mrs Potrate, so there are some facts that are known to everyone. First, in 1991 the Slovenian judiciary did not make a transformation. East German judges are practically out of the system. We all have a permanent mandate, that's a fact. Other courts and other judges across Europe are responsible for their decisions, including material — even their pensions — our nothing. All our mistakes are corrected by people. That's a fact. Disciplinary judges may be disciplined in most European countries, but not in our country because they run away from lawyers. That's a fact you can't deny. We pay the most for judges in Europe. We give more to the number of judges from the budget once more than the average of the European Union. That's a fact. Can anyone deny it? No, no, no. We've got the biggest backlog. That's a fact, too. We've got the longest procedures, and we've got the most backlogs. Another fact is that we have the first Justice Minister to say bob beans and work hard. That's a fact, too. I don't know. It says here, I read that yesterday, Minister, your hands were broken on your task force. I hope they don't break them for you. The fact is, for the first time, GRECO has warned us that something is wrong in the judiciary, and the fact is that the European Commission is warning us that something is wrong. I look forward to the new steps of the minister, but there is something else to be said. Here I must now support what Mrs Masha Kociper says. If the judicial staff were to be exempt from doing anything at all or even being able to exercise control, they would rather say that if they followed the SD amendment — the supervisors would go to coffee with the president of the court and ask him what was new. That's not the kind of control the Minister had in mind. The minister has imagined a different control, and according to our assessment, there is already little control. In order to follow this, we will vote against what the SD proposes and support what the rest of the coalition proposes without SD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u145	You know it's hard to discuss at this level. I am very glad that, finally, the Positive Slovenia and the SDS also met at the same wavelength. You may save your Februarys and everything will be O.K. It's not about control over the courts, it's not necessary over justice, but there's a very sharp edge here that exists and separates autonomy, the rule of law, etc. from the fact that there is political pressure. The overseer won't come to court for coffee, but he won't even come to the janitor or the doorman and ask when the court president went home, why he went home then, what kind of car, etc. You need to be careful about these things. While there are mechanisms for controlling, including punishing judges, including lowering wages, etc. But it's true that they have a security guard to escape between lawyers. Why do we have so many judicial backlogs, among other things? Also because we have such scaffolding legislation, and also because we have such strong lawyers blocking the work of the judge and the prosecutor on some procedural and other matters. Let us also think in this sense about what we will do with the legislation, so that it will not be possible to bring a hot invitation to court, but at the same time the affected one sits in a court of law and is not received because he is not at home, and other nonsense. There are things to be resolved in this justice system, and we agree that much needs to be changed. We also believe that such short steps will not achieve any great success. The Court of Justice's supervision. I've been a school principal for years, I've been a mayor, and I've had all kinds of inspections. Every inspector always came to me or to the principal or the mayor first, and then I told him who from accounting would be involved in the review, which of the other workers and workers, and who that inspector had nothing to talk to because that person had no knowledge, no competence, and would not give the right information. I don't know what a forensic intern and a similar inspector will be able to inspect, or I don't understand these things. The director of the court is the one responsible for everything, from how to protect, if I start completely below, to what are the backlogs, what is the reason and who is to blame. I think there's been a lot of improvement in the justice system lately. This is shown by the trials, as shown by the people going to prison, and I think it's pretty painful for a lot of people, and that's why there's a lot of pressure. Do you know what happened in some trials in the last year or this year, what statements, what tweets? These are the anomalies that need to be prevented, and this should also be regulated by legislation so that someone does not make a fool out of this justice. I also ask whether this law does not change the role of the Council of Justice. I guess we don't trust him. Apparently, they were always doing very bad things and so someone else might be able to take over his assignments. One more thing. What has been said is that other personnel have been expelled from this law, thanks to the Social Democrats. We asked that this go out because that other staff – then you really get to the janitor or I don't know what kind of staff they have there at the lowest level. I will support this amendment, prepared by the Group of Social Democrats, because we have debated and pondered for a very long time, how and what, and what would be good for justice to be the way we want it to be. So we don't have any diapers instead of Cedevita. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I would start with that, Mr Brultz, that your first statement was very incorrect and not for the first time. I've always been quiet by now, but it's been very distracting. If, in your opinion, we are saving our president with a judicial authority, then we really have a problem understanding each other. I don't know what else to say than to try very properly, completely professionally to read the proposed novel law by explaining why the whole article loses its meaning in this amendment. Because then it means that some supervisors out there, without being able to talk to people, I don't know what they're staring at in some computer program. Such a very kind provision, which was already very popular at that time, was made clear that judges should not be interviewed, that the name of the office has changed, that it is explicitly stated that the judge assigned to the service is the overseer of this service — I really do not know what else to do. Positive Slovenia is obviously here in the middle of the SDS, which would radically cut down, and SD, which would not change anything, in any area nothing. I regret – in the case of this law, a presentation of the law was made by the Ministry, and coalition coordination in the first and second readings, and it is a shame for the coalition to go like this. I wouldn't have called if it wasn't for that comment that I think is very incorrect.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u149	It's strange that some things hurt you so much. It is clear that they will talk to the staff, but we also want to know clearly who will be involved in these discussions, so that no inspection will come to court, select 5, 6 for themselves, or not know on what key the chosen interlocutors will be, and prepare a report and more. You know, when we talk about court delays, we always say it's the judge's fault. Today in Primorski News: The battle between the graves is no limit, there is no transition – it is two decimeters. It came to the Constitutional Court. Is justice to blame, or are we Slovenians to blame, for suing us for all this nonsense? Like I said, I will support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see that mag. Majda Potter. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you. Luckily, I didn't have to deal with the court until now. I probably don't know much about this, but I would like to remind you of what the proposaler wrote on article 26 in his explanation. "This is a matter for upgrading the provisions on the exercise of control over the conduct of the courts" is set out here. But what is important to say is that – this is the third paragraph – will identify the effects of meeting the criteria for the quality of the work of the courts in the conduct of the cases of the judicial administration and carry out such reviews. That's right, Mrs. Kociper was talking about tax checks. However, for the exercise of its powers, the Supervisory Service will review the work of the Court, look at the records and other documents of the Court relating to the conduct of matters of the Court of Justice and request oral or written explanations from the Presidents, the Directors of the Courts and the Court of Justice concerning alleged, alleged or found irregularities in the conduct of these cases, etc. It is only about whether we are aware that there is one principle and the other is the possibility that such a provision opens up. We believe that at the principle level a person, as stated, could accept matters, but practice shows a slightly different experience and draws attention to this. In particular, if warnings come from the kind of people who get to know each other — unlike me who don't know the truth — they need to be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u153	I'm not even talking about things I don't know about because I'd look ridiculous or someone would laugh at me. It doesn't make sense to talk about things you don't know anything about. Personally, then, I'd rather be quiet. I was also hurt by what Mr. Brulc said in that introductory sentence. As if, I will say, we support – because we do not support Positive Slovenia. Why would I do that?Oh, my God! They're the most responsible in the government. However, once you have given an amendment that completely cripples the law and completely cripples the Minister's purposes – in this case, we will help the Minister, although this time our vote will be the same as the vote of Positive Slovenia. I think that's a good thing. It's not about supporting the coalition, it's about supporting a smart solution, and that's why our vote against this amendment, which you've written enormously for certain purposes. Shall I conclude as you have accused us and Positive Slovenia – do you thereby retain any privileges you have there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. A debate? It's a replica. Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We've been listening to old jokes in the National Assembly today, and I'll tell you another epigram. If Members spoke what they knew and what they knew, they would often remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I note that we have concluded with the debate on Article 26 and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I see a number of wishes for a debate, so I am opening an application for a debate. We have three reported discussers. The first word is Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I would explain that it is again one of the solutions related to greater flexibility in the allocation of judges of district courts, namely that in practice it has been observed for a long time that district courts are under-burdened and that they do not belong sufficiently to cases, while district courts are extremely burdened, have more difficult cases, etc. As I said before, one of the key points of the Supreme Court was that this should be regulated so that the district judges could move more easily between matters of the district and district courts. With regard to this amendment, agreement on such an arrangement is deleted here, as it would not make sense for the President of the Court to redistribute the judge in one court to district matters, which he does not agree with. He's got a permanent term. There is no crazy punishment in this sense, we have found on the committee. It can be redistributed, but it has the possibility of being reassigned to this conclusion, like all workers. That's all there is to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello! The house can't be built overnight, and we won't do effective justice overnight. Once again, our Minister Plitchanic is making major changes in the judiciary with moderate steps. Both novels are proof of that. The amendment to Article 30 is also proof that judges are no longer untouchable. It introduces greater flexibility and flexibility in the deployment of district judges to district courts, which is well illustrated by colleague Kociper. Work, priorities, and not the privileges of judges are put first. We must admit that flexibility with this amendment is even greater than in the public service system. Today, we can read in the newspaper that the judgments are falling, and there will be more. I am sure that there will be more because of the amendment to Article 30, which is why I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. This amendment – I like that you threw out your consent. I see no reason – what are the judges?Oh, my God! Mr Judges are servants of this country and, as former Minister Virant spoke about it, the service of the state. Why should the judges give their consent to move from office A to office B or from one building to another? I think it's very good that you threw it out. Personally, I don't think this second part is necessary to make a complaint. The President of the Court must have the authority to move him and end him. The president of the court is the boss. He's got a job check. Let him move it and nothing else. There's no reason to complain. The wise thing to do is to fly out — agree. Because in the case of a permanent mandate, in the case of such privileges as they have, and in the case of such irresponsibility as they are, there is really no need for agreement to move from one office to another. What other profession is there that would have such rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I don't see any further desire for a debate. I conclude the debate on Article 30 and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups – Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I do not see a desire to discuss Article 49 and the amendment tabled, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u163	[[turn off the microphone]] the judge's work, the standstill of a judicial function to a judge appointed as State Secretary or an official in office. [[...]] The provisions relating to the evaluation of the judge's work are tightened, while amendments to certain provisions are necessary in order to harmonise the amendment of the Law on Courts. Along with the new Law on Courts, the new Law on Judicial Service is a step towards improving the effectiveness of the judiciary, as has been pointed out several times before, and a step towards stressing the taking of responsibility for the work of officials and of the judicial staff of the judiciary. The main points of the new Law on Judicial Service are: to tighten the provisions relating to the evaluation of the judge's work and, above all, to the possibility of a different assessment of the judge's work if the work process is organised in a project, such as the work process in the Triaž project. This simplifies to the fact that it is no longer the only criterion for the scope of the judge's work. The Judicial Service Act introduces the possibility of measuring the scope of work also at the level of the department. The President of the Court shall be the one who shall determine the extent of the work to be carried out successfully, the effective implementation of the project for the department as a whole and for individuals within this Section or the courts. Furthermore, it is important to point out that the amendment of the Judicial Service Act introduces or entitles the transfer of the powers of administration of personnel to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, also bringing together central staff records and personal records of judges and transferring all these records to the Supreme Court. As I said before, we're expanding the standstill of the judicial function. The novelty also brings more effective implementation of the official supervision of the judge's work and, not least, compliance with the legislation governing higher education and evaluation and recognition of education. If I were to say what the most important novelty is, I might conclude that this is a reassessment of the judicial service and a re-examination of official control over the work of the judge. The institute of official supervision of the judge's work needs to be said that this is not a new institution, but that we are merely supplementing it with the amendment of the law and renewing it because of the problems that have arisen in the interpretation of the legislation. The supervision will continue to be carried out by the President of the Court or the President of the Supreme Court, and therefore the findings that have been exposed to the Ministry's direct supervision are unfounded. The supervision is also linked to the assessment of the judge's work, as the Minister will also be able to request the development of a judicial service on the basis of the findings of the supervision. The minister didn't have that option right now. The novel also offers ministers the opportunity to present a proposal for an evaluation of the judicial service. Finally, as I have done with the amendment of the Law on Courts, I would like to propose that the third section of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service be discussed at this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We will take your proposal into account. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Aljoša Jerič, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor! At its 25th emergency meeting, the Justice Committee also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Judicial Service Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. Here, too, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Council of Justice, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the Council of State. The representative of the Government did not provide an explanation of the articles. In its introduction, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that in a written opinion they had made some constitutional and systemic legal comments and several comments from the point of view of internal compliance, which were largely taken into account by the amendments tabled. She pointed out the point concerning sanctions if two consecutive assessments of the judicial service indicated that the judge did not meet the conditions for progress. She said that, with the amendments tabled which provided for the deletion of the sanction, the position of a judge of the Council was only partially followed by their comments, as the reduction of the judge's salary remained an issue. One of the essential elements of judicial independence is the protection against the reduction of the judge's salary during the term of his term of office, and therefore the reduction of salaries to judges would only be justified in truly exceptional cases. She also made a comment on the Institute for the Peacemaking of the Judge’s function, which constitutes a privilege and thus an exception between the rules on the incompatibility of the judicial function, which requires that it be defined and interpreted in a restrictive manner. In their view, the provision is disputed because it also allows the application of this institute in cases where a judge is appointed to those positions where there may be reasonable doubts about the appearance of independence of the judge after the termination of his stay. Furthermore, the representative of the Council of State, in presenting the written opinion of the Commission of the State Regulation, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law and agrees with the proposed objectives of amending and supplementing the proposal for a law which follows an increase in the efficiency and independence of the judiciary, an increase in the quality and control of judicial administration and an increase in the responsibility of the judiciary. At the same time, he pointed out that the democratic effectiveness of the division of power depends on the quality of the relationship between mutual cooperation, mutual control and limitation when it comes to the common, balanced and effective achievement of the objectives at national level. The Commission points out that uncoordinated, flat-rate solutions that are not in conjunction with the Resolution on normative activities are too often adopted and that frequent changes make the work of the judicial authorities more difficult in practice. It is therefore of paramount importance that, in the previous phase, professional positions be taken into account also in order to avoid later problems in practice. The representative of the Council of Justice said in his presentation of the written opinion that the Council of Justice did not support the proposed solutions, as it opposed the rapid partial proceedings in the Law on Judicial Service, so he felt that the withdrawal of the draft law from the procedure should be considered. Regarding the rise in the age limit for appointment to the judiciary, he said that with the proposed rise of the age limit to 35 years, he did not agree, since this could result in the loss of highly educated young people. In the opening presentation, the representative of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia said that a key amendment to Article 7 of the novel introduced the possibility of a new method of measuring the quality and scope of the judge's work. With regard to the other solutions brought by the novels, however, they join the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Support for the bill and the amendments tabled was expressed in the debate by members of the coalition. Opposition members expressed their support for the bill in principle, but pointed out that they thought the changes should be more intensive. First, the issue of raising the age limit envisaged by the amendment for appointment to the judicial office, from the current 30 to the 35 years, was raised and the amendment tabled withdraws. In this regard, the members of the Committee agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that provisions governing working experience as a condition for appointment to a judicial office would also have to be corrected accordingly. The amendment received majority support so that the age limit for appointment to the judicial office did not rise. In the context of the transfer of powers from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Court, the question was raised as to whether, in addition to the transfer of powers to the Supreme Court, funds were also transferred to the Supreme Court for the performance of new tasks. The representative of the Supreme Court said that they expected financial and human resources to be redeployed to carry out those tasks; otherwise, the law had no financial implications for the state budget, as it was only a reallocation of funds. Appointments of judges. In the event of the appointment of a judge to those positions where, after the termination of the stay, there may be reasonable doubts as to the independence of the judge, concerns have been expressed by some members of the Committee, since the provision of the bill is very broad and has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. Under Article 27 and the amendment tabled to it, members of the opposition proposed that the draft law should also be infringed by the Law on Lawyers with a view to regulating the Institute of Temporary Postponance [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The Committee then adopted amendments to the PS, SD and DL groups. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. On the basis of the amendments adopted, the Committee prepared the text of the supplementary proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 15th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled of 10. Seven. 2013 I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We are in a ridiculous situation again, because the opposition supports what the minister wanted, and the coalition has mined it. What did the minister or what was the purpose of our amendment? In the basic version, the minister predicted that anyone with conditions for a judge or for that service and consequently for a permanent term could obtain this at 35 years of age, in contrast to the current state when the age limit is 30 years. We estimate that this is a step in the right direction, including a step in the direction that someone gets a permanent mandate later than he gets now. However, the coalition gave him this on the committee, deleted his proposal, and we're filing it again, that's all. Think about it, but it says this amendment supports. I think it shows because we can all be united, that a permanent term at 30 years of age is an excessive gift that no one in this country has given to anyone at 30 years of age. At the age of 30, no one gets a job ticket, a good job, a demanding job, a well - paid job, and it is guaranteed to him until his death or when the judge retires. If you accept this amendment, which is identical to what the minister wanted, as confirmed by your government – be careful, your government has confirmed it! I have no record of any minister in the government being against it. They were all in favour, and there is no reason to deny the President of the Government that you deny the presidents of the parties who are mostly in the government and that you oppose the minister. If you were a coalition at the time of the adoption of the law to raise this age limit from 30 to 35 years, I don't know what happened between then and the board meeting. Something had to happen that the entire coalition changed its mind and that it would go against all its ministers and against the President of the Government. Support for our amendment will only mean what your Prime Minister wanted, what your ministers wanted. I think that, Members, there is no point in putting the coalition in a position against its own ministers. I'm a little embarrassed today. I advocate the views that the current minister wants from the current government. They want it, they're proposing it. Now a ridiculous situation arises when the opposition advocates what the government wanted, because something happened in the coalition that the coalition has changed its mind, and it is funny to change its mind — to act against its own ministers. It is also a little embarrassing that the opposition now supports the government, not the coalition. Just imagine whether this amendment shows support or not, because it will seem a little funny that you are tearing down your own government and its own decisions. That's also evidence. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, you don't have to land back there. You'll get it, uncle, you'll get it. You don't have to. This is also proof that the opposition is constructive and wants to help and support good solutions. The good solution is the one accepted by the Government, and the good solution is the one proposed by the minister – that the age limit rises from 30 to 35. This is all we want to support with this amendment. Consider if you're undermining your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Ribič, Mrs Kociper and Mag applied for the debate. Spending. Here you go, Mr. Janez Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is almost no Slovenian citizen today who would be satisfied with our judiciary or with the entire justice system. What's more, people are completely disappointed. We have given much thought to how measures would improve the Slovenian judiciary. Perhaps a measure to raise the age limit to act as a judge will also bring something good. However, we believe that it would be even more important for the appearance of a judicial mandate to be linked to work experience, which also brings autonomy and self-confidence to the individual judge. If the judges aren't experienced, we'll go even faster towards breaking up the rule of law. In the Slovenian People's Party, in 2010, in the Bulmastif affair, when a judge on the basis of a law that had long been no longer in force had been judged in favour of an influential party, he pointed out the breakdown of the rule of law. From then on it became clear that Slovenia was governed by one legal country for elites and a completely different country for small people. Unfortunately, today we find that there is no progress, nothing that would start to restore citizens' faith in the entire legal system. The European Commission's report on the state of justice in the European Union is devastating for Slovenia. Although Slovenia is committed to the justice system of 86.9 euros per capita, the average in the European Union is 41.7 euros, the judicial backlog in Slovenia is still increasing. We also read every day about new cases of unfair trial and new cases of weird actions by judges, when one judge publicly commends another for a judgment that is not even legal, and these judges are not too young to question their professionalism due to age, but apparently not yet experienced enough, tactful enough to know how to act wisely. The amendment proposed will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. This time, I must speak with you about the implementation of my colleague Gorenak. Mr. Gorenak, we are not going against our government and our President of the Government. I assure you that the President of the Government has not been aware of the rise in the age limit of judges to 35 years in detail that she would have had a strong opinion on whether or not she supports such a solution. But it is true that one of the coalition parties proposed such a solution. We held a debate, and in a certain part of the debate was also adopted, but then the coalition took a different decision. The reasons for a different decision are as follows, I can tell you. The idea of Positive Slovenia is that the solution is quickly adopted and that it can systematically cause certain problems. For example, adjustments would need to be made in this direction in order to determine not only the age of the judge but also the necessary experience. These necessary experiences are now laid down in the legislation. If there is an increase in age, these experiences should be defined differently. There have been other concerns, including in other coalition parties, and after coalition coordination, we decided that such a solution was not possible. I can't help but make one more observation, because in one of the magazines supporting your client, it has been expressed that I personally support this solution because I want to help my fellow judges. I don’t know what I’m trying to do to help them — to get a job later? I think this amendment shows that I don't want to help anyone and that this is a joint coalition decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I wonder what would have to happen if Dr. Gorenak understood parliamentary democracy and the separation of the three branches of government. If they were used to raising their hand for everything the government had proposed, I would consider this coalition government to be underestimating me if it denied me the right to think with its head. Any other amendment or article that differs from what was adopted by the Government does not yet constitute a break-up of the government. So much for that. I see that Mr Gorenak does not really know about parliamentary democracy, and it is better to keep this quiet than I tried to tell him earlier. As for the age of admission to judicial service, it would be interesting to look at the figures when the majority of judges in the National Assembly were elected. Not more than 2004-2008. As to who can be elected to judicial service, age is not the only criterion. It's just one of the entry conditions for something like this. But what has a decisive impact on whether one can become a judge or a judge is the fulfilment of professional criteria. As a longtime teacher, I could say: Some grow up early, some never, and some may be good judges at 30 years of age, but some will not. I support the solution, as adopted on the Committee, and certainly not this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I understand you'd like to discuss it. Dr. Vinko Gorenak raised his hand and Mrs. Sonja Ramšak. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Who knows about democracy, who doesn't – Mrs. Potrata, wait! Why did you run away from the National Assembly Hall now? It doesn't make sense. We'll do it another time. Go ahead. We'll do it another time if you don't have time. Then let's put it this way. The majority of judges have been elected 2004-2008. Makes sense. When they were to be, we wanted to do something at the time, and we also greatly reduced the judicial backlog. But you know the election process is bullshit. In the National Assembly, we're going with these elections to some circus that other countries don't even know. In other countries, judges are appointed in other ways, within the judicial branch of power, and their presidents are appointed, I will say, kings, queens, some parliaments, some government, etc. The fact that we have this matter in the National Assembly is the rest of the past that you seem to like about it. The coalition now says you're not tearing down the government. Of course you're tearing it down if you vote against what the government wanted! What else are you doing?Oh, my God! The voice against this is the vote against the government in this case, what you've done. While I was sitting in the government, especially with great responsibility, I can say this for the previous Prime Minister, Mr Janša – this is a serious one, which you admitted earlier that Bratuškova was not familiar with. How did she not get to know each other?Oh, my God! If the Minister is voting for one thing, he must also read what he is voting for. I did it. Otherwise, I had a salary, and the Prime Minister has a slightly higher salary than the Minister. Mrs Bratušek also has it, and she will probably have to read it before voting for something. You confessed something I don't know if it's the smartest thing to admit. I would say she was sloppy, forgetful, or whatever — because they also found out about the FDV. That practice is now continuing in the government, and it is not good that we have a sloppy President of the Government who is not familiar with the things he sends to Parliament and is of crucial importance. It's a bit of a cruel thing. I think the magazine that assessed your role, Mrs. Kociper, is a good magazine. I didn't read it because I don't know which one it is, but she did a good job on it. If that's your intention, then you have good intentions for justice. This would be highly respected, including writing such a magazine if you had that purpose. As far as democracy is concerned: because I have 22 minutes of time, Mrs. Potrata – 22 minutes is too short for you to give a lecture, so I invite you to do it outside, out there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, I give up your lecture because I doubt your expertise. What I want to tell you is that you really don't understand some things, but you have a lot of sense for circuses. The fact that you're calling the judges' elections in the National Assembly a circus is unacceptable, and I'm afraid that's not a lapsus. As long as it is prescribed by law that we love judges in the National Assembly, this is a serious procedure. I'm appalled that someone who reminded us that he was a minister is talking about law-abiding procedures as a circus. It's something that's worrying and talking about your understanding of democracy and legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Sonja Ramšak, followed by mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Say good-bye to everyone again! I must say that I find our amendment extremely meaningful, so I would expect the coalition to change its position and perhaps listen to our arguments and also to the Minister's arguments. Today we hear that someone should be in the National Assembly or in this temple of democracy quietly, once upon a time, we sent someone to a corner, and I think that this is the building where different opinions and views are exchanged. It is the argument on which Members and Members are to decide. When we talk about raising the age of candidates for judges, I think, given that this is a permanent judicial mandate and that it is a matter of appointing and appointing judges to the highest legal, judicial branch of power, and that it is the highest moral authority in the country, that it may really make sense to raise this age limit. I believe that today we have problems with the hugely capable young lawyers who want to take up a judicial mandate. In the final stage, it is only a permanent judicial mandate and it is a very tempting service. I would say this: if we were to reduce this age limit, as proposed by the Committee on Justice, it might not be wrong to add that it is essentially an internship or a preparation for a permanent term. In such a case, I am sure that the Slovenian Democratic Party would also accept such a solution. I support our amendment, and I will confirm it. I would also appeal to the coalition to change its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u181	By the constitution, Members, we are not bound by any instructions. So if I ever make a decision different from my ministers or the government I support, it doesn't worry me too much. But do you know what I most often ask myself before voting for a decision or marriage — what does this marriage bring to young people? It is therefore very difficult for me to agree that age should be an element of adult life. This is what is stated in the explanation of this amendment. Because if that were true, then maybe 35 years isn't enough. I find it difficult to agree that efficiency, performance and also working habits depend on age. In addition, we say that we need to increase the efficiency of the courts, that new technologies, working methods, information solutions need to be introduced. I think it's the younger judges who are the guarantor or the way to these solutions. That's why I'm skeptical of your amendment, Mr. Gorenak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I take it we have concluded this debate. We move on to the next article. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Matthew Tonin, followed by Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u183	Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! The amendment to Article 10, the amendment under the second point, discusses what happens if judges fail to meet the expected standards. This amendment provides for a 20% reduction in the salaries of judges who do not meet the expected standards and for additional training for these judges. Those who, even after this additional training, would not have met the expected standards would have ended their mandate in some way. This amendment seems very reasonable to me because it contributes to the greater effectiveness of the judiciary and, above all, introduces relatively effective sanctions for the poor work of judges. If we know our current constitution, then we know that judges today have a permanent mandate, let's say, and that the practice so far has shown that the judge's case law has protected judges from mistakes made, that despite the fact that it has been evident to someone that he acted contrary to the law, such a judge has still made progress. That's not right. If you look at our constitutional arrangements and separation on three branches of government, and if you look at each branch of authority, what sanctions are, then you will see that the judicial branch of government is practically the most protected and that this amendment nevertheless introduces something that can also "punish" them if they do not do well. First of all, let's look at our legislative knowledge of what the sanctions are for us if we do bad. These sanctions come every four years, in every election with an election result, and these are in some way specific sanctions and responses to how people view our work. If you look for the executive branch, then you can find that their work can be politically sanctioned at virtually every meeting of the National Assembly if the majority in the National Assembly decides otherwise. In the judiciary, the matter is different – there are no political sanctions; their mandate is much more protected. I am not saying that this is not good, but I say that some mechanisms must be put in place to place professional pressure on judges who are not doing well. This is where this amendment goes. This is why we will support him in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We have two amendments here, as I understand it, Madam President. The first is one proposed by the SD, the second is one proposed by us. Look, here we are again. Here we are again! What did the minister propose? The Minister has proposed several more tools to be provided by the Presidents of the Courts so that the bad judges can at least be provisionally sanctioned by taking 20% of their salary and not being able to make progress. At least that's what he predicted. What do we have in front of us? I'm going to say again: one bagel of braids in this mill that the SD puts on. The SD says: the article is deleted. The SD is going against the coalition and wants to delete this article. It means that he wants to reward the poor work of the judges, that he wants to preserve the progress of the judges despite the bad work that the executive branch of power does not in any way determine, but it is determined by the judiciary itself. According to the domestic statement, when the President of the Court finds and evaluates the judge negatively, he may thereby reduce his salary for a certain period. SD says no, that's not it. They want to reward the bad work again, so they tabled the amendments themselves and did not sign it for the other coalition parties. And we suggest – what? We propose what the Minister has proposed – we sharpen and increase this period. In other words, we give more tools to the Presidents of the Court against the bad judges. It is therefore perfectly logical that, as far as the first amendment is concerned when we vote on it, Article 10 – this is the SD amendment that wants to preserve the privileges that want to preserve the crime that wishes to reward the judges – that we will oppose. It means we will vote together with the rest of the coalition. I expect that the coalition, or at least the part that acts wisely within this, will support our amendment. You know very well that it is possible to vote on the amendment proposed by the SD. You know it's possible to vote, I think you understand that. In this case, what did this mean? That you're going to run over the government and the minister completely. That is why our vote in the first amendment to Article 10 is against. Against what the Social Democrats advocate. This is: the poor work of judges, the lack of judges and the inability of their presidents to lower their salaries or stop their progress for a certain period of time. The public must know who advocates such a state. I would also like to make it clear within the coalition that those who are not for progress who want to preserve some of the state previously named by Mrs Potara are not, which is what I have used before. But what kind of circus is this? For the pre-1990 circus. That's what this is about! The election of judges in the National Assembly is the rest of the past system! That's why I called it a circus! I know that this is a matter of marriage, and I understand that, and that is why I also vote when we vote on it. But that action is not necessary. The appointment of judges in the National Assembly is not necessary and the system of other European countries needs to be pursued. Then we'll be on our way, and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Replo wants a debate? [[...]] Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you. Only my perseverance can be attributed to the fact that I always reject the manipulation and lies of Mr. Gorenak. You were talking about the circus. I was just reacting to your circus. An even bigger lie is what you say and how you explain the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 10. It is a lie that there is no possibility in the draft law or even in the legislation in force that the poor work of the judge can already be sanctioned. Finally, the criteria for the selection and advancement of the judge and the procedure for assessing judicial work are also written down. If you read which criteria are all, it is also according to these criteria, 9 of which must be met by the judge – all must be met in order to make progress. It's enough tools that exist that we support and accept. However, the question is whether we want to be aware of the fact that the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 7 December 2006, stated that intervention in a court's salary can only be exceptionally permissible because the difficulty of interfering with the court's salary is also one of the tools, if we so craftily express ourselves, for maintaining independence and protection from pressure in the judiciary. The firmness of the award, not of the employees, but of the officials, because the judges belong to a number of officials — by the fact that the judge’s poor work, as determined by the applicable criteria, has been proven to be poor in his work, the promotion is denied to the judge. It's not about supporting bad work, it's not about rewarding bad work. Mr. Gorenak, let's stop lying once! I know you have a political agenda clearly set. This is also said by your party president – to fight with all political means. You're always struggling with these funds. It's just, you know, lying is not only in politics, but also elsewhere unacceptable. What we are proposing is only a 20% reduction in the salary of the court, because it is unacceptable that this should be used very carefully, the Constitutional Court has also warned. I see this warning from the Constitutional Court in this way: if we have the opportunity to stop the judge's progress to a higher salary class due to the poor work found, then it is more difficult to say that the penalty that reduces wages is acceptable – and to the head of the court and to anyone who controls it, since the personal world is the one who assesses it has the power to judge. So it would be good to read things carefully and say what our proposed amendment intends to do. What can we do by reducing wages by 20%? Let's find out he's not doing well, we're lowering his salary, but he still stays in his job. Would it not be better to think differently, perhaps counseling that a judge who has been found a bad job find a way out in another part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Dr. Gorenak, or a debate? It's a debate. Mrs. Masha Kociper's already had a replica, mag. Tonin? [[...]] And the debate. Mrs. Masha Kociper has a word for her, Dr. Gorenak and then Mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Once again, I propose that between these two extreme options – that this article be deleted and that the possibility mentioned on my left to even lose the judicial service – remain with the proposed version proposed by the Government. This is a possibility – for those who may be watching us – that if two consecutive evaluations and these evaluations are made every 3 years for judges, it is concluded that the judge does not meet the conditions for progress, he will be given a 20% reduction in salary for a period of up to one year. It's not about promotion. In this respect, Mrs Potrata is absolutely right. If the judge fails to meet the conditions for progress under the current legislation, he shall not advance to the pay grade before the amendment. But we're talking about a situation that hasn't been settled yet. Although the judge is not making progress under the current regime, he is not in any way sanctioned for having received a poor assessment. He stays on the same salary, nothing changes, shows no effort, etc., and here this article tries to kick him a little, so that in the sense of this temporary reduction of wages on his skin he feels this sanction. What is right with Mrs Potat is that the Constitutional Court and the provisions of the Constitutional Court are very strong in protecting the status and independence of the judge, even through the status of failure to pay him. But like she said, exceptions are permissible. As in all cases, here too, the Constitutional Court will weigh various rights, perhaps the right to timely judicial protection that people have, and on the other hand this untouchable right of an official who, indeed, has a permanent mandate. It is true, as some of you say, that there are already a number of sanctions against judges who do not do well in law, including in the Judicial Service Act, particularly through disciplinary proceedings, but the judiciary is not using those sanctions. The penalty for temporary reduction is simple, immediately visible, no need to carry out the whole disciplinary procedure. An assessment is sufficient and a decision is made on the basis of this assessment. The article we are talking about is also the only article in this law that directly interferes with the status of a judge. The contention of this article significantly reduces and weakens the opportunities offered by this law by the Ministry and the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I just agree with what was last said. The Constitutional Court may also annul this. That is true, but it is also true that this would then mean that it is also putting itself in the position to fully protect the judicial system as untouchable and to protect the judges. It must also be agreed that what is in the original text is better than nothing, although we believe that our amendment under point 2 is a better option, because the situation needs to be brought about more. It is also true that the original text is quite tight and that it is better than nothing, but there is nothing to defend the SD – that is the problem. SD says nothing. I'm gonna say this about the lying thing. Mrs. Potter, you may think I'm lying. This is your right. I think you're lying, too, and you're lying. It sucks that we're talking about who's lying, who's not lying. You think one thing, I think another, but it remains in fact: according to our world view, you're in a basket, and I'm not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u193	Let's try to draw some differences between the amendments that are ahead of us. When the judge is appointed judge, his term is permanent, and he who works, also sins, works better, works worse, however. The amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats speaks like this, in this spirit I understand: if a judge fails to meet the expected standards for progress, nothing happens to him. Because he doesn't meet the standards, nothing happens to him. What colleague Maša Kociper advocates speaks in this sense: if the judge fails to meet his expectations, it is possible to lower his salary by up to 20%. This option is still better for me than the one proposed by the Social Democrats. I support what Comrade Gorenak has to say and what they have invested in the SDS: if it is shown from year to year that a judge does not meet his expectations, not only to lower his salary, but also to end his term of office. This is a strict option, much stricter to judges than the ones proposed in the SD, but me personally and us in Novi Slovenija, because of the situation which now rules in the judiciary, we support this stricter option, because I think we have some basis, but also judges who do not do their job well, so they pay a certain price.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Just a little Mr. Beznik, mag. Maja Potter has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u195	Mr Tonin, at least you are right in the debate, and we find a variety of views on the same thing. What the Social Democrats are saying is that an intervention in pay is a measure that is either one-year-old or whatever. The Constitutional Court has stated its position to pay for interventions, but what has already been said is: there is already a possibility that the judge's bad work will be sanctioned. Here is now the fundamental question: whether these options are to be accumulated even more and finally to find that none is used, or to make such decisions that will also lead to the use of funds, the tools that are in law. Here I would like to draw your attention to just one more thing that relates to your previous statement. You say we are sanctioned by politicians in every election. No! No! I know a fellow Member who had to be helped by the court to see that he had been sanctioned because he had not been sanctioned by voters in the elections. This is a fundamental difference, and we who get to know the electoral system know why this is happening. I don't think all things and all functions are comparable. Therefore, it is precisely the responsibility and good or bad work of one or the other that it is difficult to measure accurately to the point. That's all this is about. Our proposal is very clear and certainly does not speak in favour of supporting the bad work of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u197	President, thank you very much for your word. Once again, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think it's important because the legal practice that is reflected in this work when we've been following the work of judges for the past 20 years – what will it do to us? We know three cases where the judges were in some cases. We know the last case of that judge in Celje, where a case is ongoing, although he has a lot of problems. Then we know the judge on Ptuj, who eventually got the compensation. Finally, we find that the courts in Slovenia work extremely well in modern Slovenian history, following the jurisprudence that has been carried out. The Penal Code in Article 288 also has an interesting dictatorship, which I do not think has ever been used in Slovenian modern history: "Unlawful, biased and unfair trial." The first part of this doctrine says: "A judge who knowingly violates the law or distorts the right to harm or unjustifiably favour the party in the proceedings shall be punished by imprisonment for up to three years." The second part of this says: "The same shall be punished by a judge who, with the purpose of the preceding paragraph of this Article, shall refer the judgment to facts which he knows do not exist or are falsely instigated with false or unlawful evidence." Look, in Slovenian modern history, Article 288 has never been used. What can we discuss? We can argue that our judges are doing so well or that this has never been violated. If we look at some other regulated professions, let's say doctors who have, I can say, at least in some of the world's views, where they decide the life and death of someone – look at how many professional mistakes have been made in the last 15 years! They also had some inviolability in some parts, but doctors also came to some sort of self-cleaning, saying that there are some of us who are professionally weaker and do not deserve to perform important functions. As a citizen, I could say that in some period, perhaps in the mid-1990s, politics and the National Assembly were almost untouchable. It's the other way around today. Today we are Members under great pressure, under great pressure, monitoring the public at every corner. Only now did the inviolability of the judges come. Can judges in their profession really be totally untouchable and without any control? All we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party is that those who are doing badly – because after everything I said in the first part, it is clear that there has been some self-cleaning between legal professions or judicial professions so far, there has been no need to protect each other. Not just the judges! Even his notaries, the lawyers of his people, except in some cases, and I do not believe that there are any bad and worse in this matter. It's something that's unacceptable. At least we suggested that in the work of the judges – let me read part of this amendment, which I think is interesting. Where the assessment indicates that the judge does not meet the conditions for regular progress, he shall be paid a reduction of 20% for a period of one year and the compulsory participation of one or more skills to improve knowledge in areas for which irregularities have been identified when another assessment is made and a title shall be taken away from the Judge of the Council. Isn't that logical? Isn't that something logical that is normal in all other social professions? Someone who bakes bad bread has to go to some training, someone who's a common welder has to go to training if he's doing bad work in the profession. In a judicial profession, someone who works poorly — the President of the Court — does not have a certain capacity for action. There is also a questionable question in some court management as such, also carried out by the President of the Court, as he is also the manager, he also manages. We also take away from the President of the Court a part of the jurisdiction where he can reward his judges, and that is something unacceptable – some total inviolability of one profession. If we look at other professions, we find that there is some sort of self-cleaning in all others. Everyone realizes that bad people who work poorly are untransparent, unprofessional, somehow damaging. Except in an act called the Court of Justice in Slovenia, which does not work well. This is not my opinion, this is not the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and everyone else! This is what we are most told by the courts of the Court of Human Rights, where we are one of the most well-known countries, where there is a daily mass violation of cases, particularly in the face of an unreasonable trial. It is a matter of minor matters, which are also exceptional in terms of expertise, I can say, normal – they are not some extremely professional thing where you need, I don't know, a whole lot of experts to be able to come up with some quality judicatures. The European Commission's findings require us to do something. This amendment, which we propose, is just a small piece to give the Presidents some more room for manoeuvre, so that he can at least control or detect or do some quality among the judges and also sanction them. I think we are aware, however, that when you hit someone in the pocket, according to your household, the thing is, at least in this capitalist part, the most complete – the most someone feels on his budget and then maybe he remembers and starts to do better. At least there's a part of it that's been cleaned out. In this process, that our courts will also become some status in the European space to start working qualitatively, with as little judicial backlog as possible, this is a small contribution to giving some room to the Presidents of the Courts. I believe that all those who think logically, which is clear to you, will be supported by this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. As I no longer see the desire for a debate on Article 10, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. For very principled reasons, I can say that we will support the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats. But what's the reason? Today we have a different situation between lawyers, lawyers, prosecutors and judges. Last year, when we passed the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, you made it clear to me, as then competent minister, that we were allowing the transfer of prosecutors between policies, for state secretaries. You specifically said that I was preparing a job for Mrs Barbara Brezigar, and you specifically said that she would go to the cabinet of the then Prime Minister. I don't know what you knew. That worked very wisely, and none of it was true. Today's situation is this: we have judges who can go to state secretaries or ministers but cannot go to the other officers of the courts. The coalition proposes that the other officers of the courts go. If we were to adopt what is in the original text of the law that we are currently dealing with, we would have the following situation: prosecutors could go to state secretaries and ministers, judges could go to state secretaries and ministers, and unfortunately in the judiciary, the coalition now allows all other employees to do so, and they have the right to return to court. I think the SD is right this time when he's holding a case where the prosecution's law is. Another step should be taken to amend the Law on State Defence. The state defence law completely prohibits lawyers, and here we have a completely disorderly situation. That's why I think it's right to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Since I do not see a desire for further discussion, I conclude the debate on Article 12. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired, and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. The amendment we have drafted in the Slovenian Democratic Party refers to the addition of the second and third paragraphs, which read: Article 25 of the Law on Lawyers adds a new 10 point to point 9 of Article 25, which reads as follows: "that he has not served as a judge or a state prosecutor in the Supreme Court of Slovenia for the past four years". In the Law on Lawyers, in Article 50, the text of "points 6 and 7" is replaced by the words "points 6, 7 and 10". What is the significance of this amendment that we are now adding? As you have noted, we had the case of the then Judge Penk, who literally went to law school within 24 hours. Why is that important? It is mainly due to the hygiene of the professions that are emerging. Someone who has access to the judicial records has a major advantage in his domain, and he is able to perform an untransparent, unhygienic task tomorrow morning because he has more insight into the judicial file and more insight into the trial itself. It's also about expertise, not just hygiene, and it's something normal that's going on. I think that's normal. In economic or so-called management professions, there are so-called supplements in the decisions that say that someone who has worked in a company and has some insight into some legality or secrecy, processes that are secret in the company, has a ban on doing business in the same sector over the next 2, 3, 4 or 5 years, depending on these individual decisions they issue. This is something normal in most industries and professions, and in a sector called the autonomous judicial branch of power, this has been negligible so far. I think that this amendment is logical, that it is normal, in particular, to open up some transparency, greater quality of the judiciary and also, I can say, legal professions, and that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported by all the other Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u203	Only one note: Penko was a prosecutor, not a judge, and then he went to the lawyer of the Zidar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who's been reported for discussion? If not, we conclude with a debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this we interrupt this point and also interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed in half an hour, at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u205	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that we will first vote in the framework of the budget package of acts on the Proposal for a Luck Tax Act and on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Fees. We will then vote on the 2013 Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and finally on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Tax of Lucks. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading – to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. I ask the Members and Members if anyone wants to explain his voice. First of all, I am opening the possibility to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. I would like to request an application if anyone wishes to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Franz Pukšič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We have already said on the committee and yesterday in our position that we do not support this law for the main reason that such significant taxation will cause those who play on these two lottery tickets — luck and sports forecasts — to move away, also because of the technology of possibility, elsewhere, outside the country. This will have a significant number of negative consequences right in the part where these two organisations finance disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, and this would cause more damage to the budget than the benefits, as in the end the disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations will certainly be putting additional pressure on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Suma sumarum, under the line, would be negative by revenue to the state budget and therefore we do not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? If I'm not sorry, I haven't seen you. [[...]] Mag. Vogrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the so-called consolidation of public finances, this government, which took place in the spring, carried out two groups of measures: raising taxes and additional duties. I believe that it is worth recalling, however, the message of the notable statesman Churchill that the attempt to raise taxes to raise the welfare of the population is similar to that of standing in a bucket and trying to raise ourselves by hand. We do this all the time now. We're standing in the bucket trying to get up. No one's ever done that before. Look, even if it's luck, it's all wrong – measures. We need other measures. Tax hikes and additional debt will not place public finances on solid foundations. On solid foundations, public finances will only be set by an economy that will produce more and create greater added value. This is the key thing, and let's start taking action in this direction. Thank you very much. I cannot vote in favour of such a bill because it is contrary to development.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Can we vote? I'm opening a vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 36. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees. We shall proceed with the second reading, by deciding on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 11 July 2016. The 7th you received on the e-club. We turn first to Article 13 and to the decision on the amendment to this Article tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. I'm opening a vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the next article, or amendment, to Article 22, as well as the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third, last amendment, Article 23, as well as the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government have not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 33. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Anybody want a word? Would you like a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Bogovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u210	Allow me, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, to explain and announce our vote at a very important point in the 2013 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. As I have already said, in the Slovenian People's Party in these days we have had the opportunity to talk about a largely fatal budget, the 2013 budget, a budget in which we will have to show what policies Slovenia wants to resolve from the deep crisis and mistakes we have made in the Slovenian political space. The budget we are currently correcting was prepared last October and November and adopted in early December. We can all acknowledge and know that since then, many things have happened, that the forecasts taken into account by the Government at the time in preparing the documents, that the Slovenian economy will begin to recover, have not come true, and that at that time we have come into a deeper crisis than we were then. Therefore, in these days when we had the opportunity to discuss this rebalancing and also to listen today to the most responsible in the government, in particular the President of the Government, it was quite surprising that the whole time we spoke was only about correcting what was wrong last year and that we were putting out the fire caused by the previous government. We lack the strategy, the vision, the vision of this government to come out of this crisis. Through policies that should reflect both in the field of public spending, in the area of debt and in the area of economic recovery, in the use of European funds, we estimate that the path that Slovenia is taking at this time is wrong, and that this path, which will also experience a lack of confidence in the wider area, which, as an economic state and as a sovereign Slovenia, we belong to – in a European area where they are increasingly concerned about the steps we are taking. In the Slovenian People's Party, we think that we should do a lot more on the part of consolidating public finances, have clear steps in the area of the rehabilitation of banking systems and privatisation, not through the documents we now accept, to continue with the policy of recapitalising the banking system and in some way to obscure that original sin of this in-depth crisis that we have in Slovenia in the banking system. Because of all these things that we do not agree with, we will vote against this budget rebalancing. As we have already said, we still want to play a constructive role in improving the policies that Slovenia will choose for next year as a way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr Vizjak on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u212	Dear Vice President, Minister! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the 2013 draft budget rebalancing. There are a number of reasons for that. There are also some that are very important for the current coalition, because the budget rebalance is a diametric contradiction to the two priorities that this government coalition has set when it signed a cooperation agreement. It noted that it would reduce the budget deficit in a way that would also reduce current expenditure or limit wages in the wider public sector. Second, it will promote competitiveness or improve the business environment. The budget balance is going in the opposite direction. That's also a key issue. The deficit increases from one billion to a good billion and a half by 53%. Lower tax revenues also reduce the reimbursement of European funds to the Slovenian budget. This means that this government has decided to draw less ambitiously on European funds, which means that it will also pay less from the European budget to the Slovenian budget, up to EUR 250 million. That's bad. This government is rebalancing investments and investment transfers, maintaining or even increasing the country's current expenditure and current transfers. Even this paradox is that investment, investment expenditure and investment transfers together are smaller than the deficit in this budget, which means that the deficit and debt at the expense of current expenditure and transfers or that we have come so far as to be in charge of what the state currently needs to function and not to invest. That's bad. It's an alarm signal. It does not help to recover what is essential for a way out of the crisis – economic recovery. Only a recovering economy can get us out of the grip of this crisis, and new jobs as a result. This can be created with a more competitive business environment, better management conditions. With new taxes and VAT increases, however, the government also has an additional impact on the economy. Higher taxes and fewer investments – this will certainly not help with economic activity. This is a reflection of this balance and we therefore oppose it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr Möderndorfer, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u214	Unlike my predecessors, I'm gonna be a little shorter. In Positive Slovenia we will support this budget rebalance drawn up by the government of Janez Janša. Unfortunately, they are also aware of this on this side of the bench. Their problem is something else. They know damn well what we should do, but they fear it because they will not be elected. I'm afraid we have to make this right. However, I fear that with this balance, and we admit it, we will not correct all the mistakes she has made with this budget. In Positive Slovenia we will support this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Maybe in your own name? We'll open up an opportunity to apply. Four panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Brane Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you. Your Honor, very nice to meet you. I will support the budget rebalancing myself mainly because it stabilises our public finances. In fact, it allows us to arrive as a normal country by the end of the year. My leader has already said the reasons, but this budget rebalancing also keeps investments of 1.1 billion. We are earmarking funds to encourage the economy together with the SID Bank of 600 million. In addition, active employment policies remain the same by adding additional incentives for youth employment. We maintain public education, including branch schools in rural areas, because we do not abolish standards, and we maintain public health. It seems to me that supporting this balance is a responsibility to the state and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! As has been said by the parliamentary group, we will not support this. I won't support it myself. The question is, who does the budget rebalancing work for? Is it a coalition or an opposition? Not for one or the other. The budget balance should work to manage the country successfully. Given yesterday's performance by the Minister of Finance, who took extremely little time to do so, but I fully understand why – because his position is clear – it is clear that public finances must first be consolidated. Since his President of the Government and the ministerial team did not do so, he thought it was nonsense to continue to discuss something in this direction that he knew was unrealistic. He came from Brussels, said clearly what they were talking about, and we heard what the Brussels ministerial team said. In the Slovenian People's Party we offered you a written offer, we sent the President of the Government a hand, but you do not accept it. It doesn't matter whether today or 14 days later, 14 days later without explanation of vote, without a word, if we put the balance together to balance it on the expenditure side. I'm afraid you didn't understand. More, you won't believe it and you can't believe it. I almost never agreed with Zoran Jankovic, but this time I do. He also realized that such a rebalancing "stood" for this country and did not support it! This rebalancing leads us to a new balance that has taken place, and it does not open up a single job or even closes this economic ass that can no longer walk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u220	Contrary to my predecessor, I will support the rebalancing, mainly for the reason that it saves the existing budget that has been adopted. In the general debate, I have already said that it is not said that every budget was bad because of deliberately some things have been introduced, but the macroeconomic situation has changed. The judgments of the Constitutional Court are also judgments of the European Court of Justice – which were not covered by the budget. All the debate we had these days was similar to the debate of two beggars who are arguing about whose little is more empty and who will be a little more insistent. The balance sheet can't enter new accounts, it can't bring up the new items it was talking about. The whole discussion was more or less about the budget, not about the budget rebalancing – the correction of the bad budget and the unrealistic budget. But apparently there are some who think that pirates can make gold. I will also support the rebalancing because, contrary to what I have said, it does not reduce investment expenditure compared to last year. It doesn't reduce them. What has been said so far is not true. I will support the rebalancing once again, but I call for better preparations for the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Leila, a doctor, will surely agree. If you want to know the state of your health, you need to make a blood count, and your doctor sees most of this. Now let's take a look at the blood count of the country. Data on the state budget balance show that the deficit in the state treasury is rising again from EUR 1 to EUR 1.5 billion. Measured as a percentage of the gross social product generated, the deficit from last year's 3.1% will increase to 4.4%. If we add additional expenditure to the budget deficit to the recovery of state banks, the total public deficit will reach 7.4% of the gross social product this year. Therefore, they do not surprise European Commissioner Rehn's words that the government must act quickly because we are running out of time. The graph on the exponential growth of Slovenia's sovereign debt, which increased from 22% of gross social product in 2008 to 61.8 this year, is sufficiently eloquent. That's why this is the way to hell. I understand the opposition and positional MPs. You must be one against the other, the other you must be in. The status of a Member of his own has many weaknesses. But there is one advantage: I can always vote as I think it is right. I cannot vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I see Mrs. Brunscoll's application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Rebalance means a correction of the existing budget. As colleague Möderndorfer has already said, and I am not arguing with him, but he made it clear that this is a correction of the budget adopted by the previous government. I'll support the rebalancing. The Minister of Finance explained at the meeting, albeit briefly, but clearly: consolidation of public finances, rehabilitation of the banking system and the extension of the economy, improvement of corporate governance, withdrawal of the economy – these are the first priorities. Our objectives, as colleague Potočnik stressed on behalf of Positive Slovenia, are financial stability, fiscal consolidation, which is necessary in the Republic of Slovenia, and growth measures. Some colleagues who, yesterday and even today, have been interpreting and discussing – led some departments where they could benefit from more cohesion funds, have been able to implement more economic measures, and unfortunately we have not succeeded. I hope that in 2014, we will have a budget, which we together, both coalition and opposition, will be better prepared and at least to some extent satisfied with. I will support the balance at a given time – we need pensions, we need public health and education. People expect that from us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you very much. But I will not support it, because we need a particularly efficient economy. We don't just need those money sinks. We need the money. This is a key issue, why I do not think it is to support it – because it does not provide an enabling environment for those who create it in this country. You've divided a certain amount of money into those groups that you think are justified. One more thing, this budget clarifies investment. The former government is essentially the current government, because the two parties are the same. What I'm saying is, when you're hitting on the previous government, you're hitting on coalition partners because they're sitting in the previous government. I'm talking about DeSUS and the Civil Gazette. We have made investments and European funds more ambitious because we believed that this could have a positive impact on economic activity. It is not right to compare the 2013 plan or the 2013 budget of the government of Janez Janša with the 2012 spending, because we had to get your – from the government of Borut Pahor – deficit of over two billion per billion and 100 million euros. For one billion, we've settled a deficit. Indeed, it was partly at the expense of investments in 2012, but one year of pliering investments is sufficient, so it would be good to compare yourself with the year planned through the 2012 budget. One more thing. You take about 70 million euros for investments to municipalities, and you don't even give Ljubljana the euro of new investments or money. I believe that this is a great disappointment to your loyal voters, the Positives who have been betting on your recently frozen president, who promised Ljubljana more money for his government. Where is this money, Your Honor, with a new government composed by Mr Zoran Jankovic?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u228	I now report as an individual, earlier on behalf of the Group of Members. Again today, I am surprised by the shortsightedness of the debate or the explanation of the votes in the budget's rebalancing – as if someone could not see more than a few months ago. Yesterday, I tried to present graphs in the presentation of the parliamentary group, which strongly extend to several Slovenian governments. All of us are only now aware that we are talking about a trend that has been a trend for the last 8 years that has accelerated since the crisis, and here some former ministers are listening to how we have not been able to draw on European funds. Dear colleagues, this year a large part of environmental investment will be able to be signed by a fellow Minister of the Jews because last year the government was meeting at weekly coordination meetings. During the week, ministers were responsible for cohesion funds from nine to ten together and were currently solving problems. In December, January and February, there were so many calls that 600 million investments could be signed for environmental infrastructure, of which half of the Europeans were good. Even in the White landscape, the water supply accelerated at the time of my ministry, so such comments from a respected colleague are a little rude and, above all, the deception of people. I want my colleagues, who will be looking after cohesion funds this year, to do as much as we did last year, and it will be so much better for all of us. When adopting budget balances and policies that are drawn up through budget documents, however, through the law on budget implementation, focus your view longer than just 8 months in advance because you obviously cannot steer it back. I will vote against this short-sighted balance of budget you have drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u230	Colleagues and colleagues! I will not support the balance of the budget because this balance is highly underdeveloped. Now it turns out it's a diametric contradiction, what the coalition has promised before and what it's doing now. Takes money from investment, extra burdens on the economy, raises taxes. At least I quietly hoped that, given the tax rises, you would try to help the economy with these inflows, at least a little, to invest them. This means that this coalition does not know that the tax also has a development function. You probably only assess the tax as a budget charge. It is, in particular, incomprehensible and worrying that more than 250 million European funds are being taken, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance has a deal with the European Investment Bank of EUR 500 million. It is also clear that Members and Members of the Positive Slovenia, Members and Members of the Social Democrats probably contributed significantly to this rebalancing, since you needed to adopt a fiscal rule for a year, you submitted referendum signatures for the bad bank and for the Slovenian State Holding Act. This rebalancing of the budget of Slovenia will not lead to a crisis. This budget balance will not create new jobs. This budget balance will not trigger the economy. I will not support this budget balance because of all this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dear Žnidar, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u232	Your Honor! Nor will I support the proposal for a rebalancing this year, as the rebalancing does not go in the direction of stabilising public finances. There's a lot of nice talk about how to encourage, develop and help the economy, but this rebalancing is against the economy. I will give a very clear picture: by increasing taxes, we will burden the economy and, with a significant reduction in investments in the balance sheet, we will take the job of the economy. The balance is ultimately absolute minus. Such a rebalancing is not development-oriented, because investment is the kind of development that will start the economy, and if it is not, then there is no development. The rebalancing is in the opposite direction. He'll hold out for maybe four months, and then he'll run out of money, and it'll be another rebalancing. A negative balance, which is not in favour of stabilising public finances, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Now there are many of you who want to debate, and I will open the way for you to apply. Opening login option. Four panellists, Mr Andrej Chuš is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. With the July value added tax rise, we were able to face the strong anti-social policy of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, because raising value added tax is a measure that equally affects the richest and, on the other hand, those who are most at risk. The latter will be most affected by raising the lower limit of value added tax – basic necessities and goods will also be encouraged. It is also a matter of concern that every new week the government of Alenka Bratušek almost brings new taxes. The already heavily burdened economy will be even more burdened, and everything that works and walks will pay more mainly because of the incompetence of our government, the government of Alenka Bratušek. That the government of Alenka Bratušek does not manage the situation but does not have a clear strategy, the 2013 budget rebalancing proposal also shows, which does not indicate the future and does not indicate the stabilisation of public finances. The rebalancing won't hold, and we'll probably be discussing the new one again in the fall. The government's towing horse, Alenka Bratušek, has always talked about the start-up of the economy and the drawdown of European funds, and I am therefore surprised by the government's forecast of lowering revenues by EUR 250 million by the European Union. The so-called investment start, as Mr Misic said, will not be. There will also be no new jobs. We are also young against borrowing at our expense and at the expense of future generations. For example, when the budget has 8 billion revenue, and the expenditure is for the poor 10 billion, it is unacceptable and shows that the government of Alenka Bratušek buys social peace at the expense of debt, while defending many unjustifiable privileges. They used to pick up a tithe, and we'll have a tithe under Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The rebalancing is a correction, and the rebalancing is a correction of the budget that you have accepted. As my colleague Jerko said, we don't believe you wanted bad, but you wanted different, and that's the difference. You see and you work differently, we see and we work differently. Right now we're fixing what you've done wrong. I also want to correct and correct some of your statements. You said 700 million for investments is more than a billion 100 million. Here we need to make a correction – there are a billion 100 million investments in the rebalancing, and that is probably more than 700 million. At the same time, we give 22 million more for education in this balance. This is also an investment, an investment in knowledge and development. That's why I'm going to support this rebalancing. If we walk around seeing something, who sees more, and who sees less, I'll tell you that we see differently than you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you, Madam Vice President! First of all, I have to say that I will not support this rebalancing. I am convinced that if the current government and this coalition, half of which came from the previous coalition, were to follow the path outlined by the government of Janez Janša, this balance would not be needed, and this balance would be fully acceptable. This government and this coalition have decided on a completely different path and are trying to save the Slovenian economy and Slovenia by raising taxes. With this balance, the government is reducing funds, at least 70 million, for local communities, for investments. If he thinks he can lead this society into a better and better future by raising taxes on the one hand, and on the other hand, he will do nothing to create conditions for a competitive economy, to open new jobs, it is a huge mistake. This balance of budget expresses this, which is why it is unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party, for me and for most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Matjaž Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I accept this rebalance as some kind of financial gymnastics that is absolutely shaped on the basis of real economic parameters. Despite the fact that your colleagues and colleagues are saying that the balance sheet is not good, that the balance sheet does not contain enough funds for investments and is not designed for development, I doubt your honesty, because it seems to me that you all have so much idea that we can spend and spend as much as we can. But this rebalancing is a reflection of the real situation. See if this rebalancing corrects the budget that was adopted in your government, then you could have planned such a budget that was developmental, investment-oriented, but what does it help if you planned it in a way that did not have a real basis. Today we know that the parameters are different, that at this time many things have changed and that this money, even if you have planned it, cannot be realized. Then what does that mean? This is the real state that we're drawing on this financial gymnastics, like I said. Even in this illustration, as much as possible to promote youth employment, it is investment-oriented and ultimately represents the sustainability of the whole state system. This is absolutely very important to me. There's absolutely no debate. I'll support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Zanoskar. Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I cannot support this budget for the following reasons. First of all, because it's too low-cost. In fact, wage allocations in public administration are understated. That's why there's too much deficit. On the other hand, insufficient funds are allocated to investments, mainly for the start-up of the economy. Whether this budget is more realistic than the real former budget implemented by the government of Janez Janša will be seen. I understand that the new government is implementing its budget, but this budget is simply too ambitious. Finally, in a number of areas, this has also been noted by the European Commission. I assume that another correction of this budget will have to be made in 2013 due to a lack of ambition in the area of expenditure. The expenditure is too high, the deficit is too high, and this is not what is in the Stability Pact, and what we have committed to the European Commission to do. I think that this is a major problem and therefore I certainly cannot support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I would give a slightly different opinion from my colleagues, because I believe that the government is essentially ending the economic recession with this rebalancing of the budget, somehow ending with the solution that we are emerging from the economic recession and going into economic depression. This means that we are going to totally destroyed production, total decline in GDP by more than 10%, and this will happen in the next good year and a half in Slovenia. All those who think otherwise – I think we will meet all our arguments that will come within one year. Firstly, you have not taken into account the changed circumstances in which our country is located. Croatia's entry into the European Union has led to a different period. We are no longer the main pillar in the Balkans, but this has now become Croatia. We have lost all our advantages as such. These are years of lost opportunity. The budget rebalancing does not hold up some economic doctrine, some conservative liberalism by the Janšev government, which has proved to be in investment or, I can say, in European investors at the price of bonds that were slightly over 4%. With the entry of this new government coalition, a change in economic policy has revealed the whole dimension of this unknown market economy, and all leads to one major economic disaster. I can't support this. I am on the side of those who invest in this country the most, and those who are now the most punished. Farmers are being punished, workers are being punished, especially entrepreneurs. Another issue I must point out is another red light for foreign investment in the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone with a normal economic mindset cannot support the balance of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. The fact is that you are increasing the deficit by half a billion euros with a balance sheet. You had no difficulty in reducing funds for culture, social, investment and other areas, but you found 4 million euros more for wages, which you had to find since you only increased the number of public employees by 200 in April. You also found money for the former president's office. I don't even know what the former president is doing or why he needs the office. If anyone has problems and a state of representation or represents on official routes etc., this is the current president, so I really don't know why we need four times the money for the former President of the Republic. You also found extra money for an information officer. You also found additional money for the Commission to prevent corruption. They'll even get more than they spent last year. That's a lot of generosity. I don't know why. Those who say your balance is better than our budget – how can the balance be better if you increase the deficit? For half a billion you increase the deficit, you break the promises you made yourself, the commitments you made yourself. That's why I won't support this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mrs. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u248	Nicely greeted! I will support the balance because it preserves public health and public education. For three days I have been hearing about the balance of things – I fully understand that everyone sitting in this Chamber has the right to say what he thinks or whether he will support or not. It's his right. I don't mind if my colleagues don't support the rebalancing because they're right, but I'm disturbed by the onset that's been going on for the last three days. I once told the National Assembly that I was against cameras and television to be filmed and translated to outsiders. Because if there were no cameras, there would be no propaganda from Mr Jankovic, Mr Janša, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, personal insults, words that are not appropriate for the National Assembly. The performances that some or most of them have, either that they have received instructions from their boss or that they feel that they must perform in this way, are really not appropriate for the National Assembly. However, we may not be able to support the content, but the proper outcome must indeed be. I'll support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you very much. However, we are talking about explanations of vote regarding the general part of the balance. I give my word to Mr. Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. The three statements of the three most visible representatives of Positive Slovenia raise fear. On Monday, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek said she was not planning any new budget measures when she was coming to answer parliamentary questions. Yesterday in his presentation, Minister Uroš Chufer said: "Take this balance, we will go to work and we will prepare new measures for stabilisation and normalisation." Yesterday, the former President of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jankovic, the founder of the party, said: "Do not support the budget balance." The three most visible representatives of the Party of Positive Slovenia, who have proposed the budget, make three very different statements, which in their view are also very symptomatic of the way the coalition works, as well as the way the budget is drawn up and the implementation of the budget or the balance. It is not true that you are fighting to preserve public health. A few days ago, the wife of the President of the Social Democrats received a concession for private activity. Many of the statements we are witnessing these days in the consideration of this act, what you are preserving, are supported by actions, statements and arguments why we should vote against, from the most visible representatives of the current coalition: President of SD, former President of PS Zoran Jankovic, current Acting Minister of Mrs Alenka Bratušek and Finance Minister. I will vote against it, even out of caution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. I'm opening a vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 34. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the general part of the budget balance has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing, namely the amendments. The decision will be made on the basis of the amendments that have been tabled 9. Seven. 2013 and we will first address the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes. We will first vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the NSI Group to the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure. Can we vote? Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u252	Nicely greeted! I will support this amendment. I also ask you, colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment. This is about more money to the municipalities for a simple reason, because this year the European financial perspective 2007-2013 is being concluded and the municipalities are in bloody need of this money. I'm asking very nicely for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u253	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I understand that the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u254	I would also like to ask you, if not even better than my fellow Member, Tonin, to support this amendment because the sum is slightly higher. As we have already established, the rebalance is taking around €70 million to the municipalities for investment. We are talking about investments in local development infrastructure. So far, it has been shown that the investments led by municipalities are rational and the ones most needed by citizens, so I believe that the additional resources for the development of this local infrastructure would constitute an important development momentum and an impetus for economic recovery and thus a more efficient use of European funds. I therefore recommend support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u255	Thank you very much, mag. A visor. They're warning me you'd like to discuss it again. Who wants to explain the voice? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u256	Why should this be supported? I hope that you will also support Members and Members of the Coalition because you come from the environment, from the municipalities where the decisions obtained by the Agency for Agricultural Markets on programme 323 are in their drawers. They are conclusions and cannot sign contracts, and they are informed by the Agency: give, press your Members and the Minister for Agriculture so that we can withdraw these investments this year. They say they won't be here this year because the state doesn't have the money. Not doing this because you will do harm because these projects are co-financed by the European Community. The period 2007-2013 is ending, and EU funding is unfortunately too weak, even because there was no call for tenders during the period of the Pahor government in 2009. This is because at the time they were throwing a Pinkponk ball at each other, who would be the holder of these funds, and the then State Secretary without the knowledge of Minister Gjerkesh or Minister Gaspari called the European Community on the phone. At that time, Minister Gjerkes made it clear that all responsibility for the non-supply of these funds, colleague Renata, would also be borne by the Secretary of State because you had already asked who was responsible. In my previous mandate, I asked the Prime Minister Borut Pahor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party several times, who said clearly and loudly that he was responsible. I'm sorry. It's just political. Some of you were sitting right then in the biggest political party that prevented the possibility of using funds. As our party president Franci Bogovic said, at the time we were in government, the ministerial team met every week to prepare a basis for drawing on European funds. You guys just keep up the good work. It is therefore imperative that this amendment be supported, and I believe that you will not have major problems with the harmonisation amendment when the budget is adopted, because you had to give it because of this adopted amendment. It's not about high politics, it's about little money and it's about local communities. It's the whole country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u258	Dear colleagues and colleagues! On 4 July, there was an All-Slovenian meeting of Slovenians, who are all over the world, in America, Australia, Switzerland, etc. Do you know what one of these people thought? From his perspective, Slovenia is like a gas-pressing car, and at the same time has a tight hand brake. Look, if we're not going to invest anything, what's the point? Local roads, or local infrastructure, have been such since the crisis occurred that when we drive on these roads, you no longer know whether you are driving along the road or driving on asphalted roads. Approximately as we used to ride in Serbia, Albania or Kosovo, only there is the situation different. It would be politically wise for a position unlike the previous one to show a little wider understanding and to say: we will support this amendment and demonstrate a gesture of goodwill and also some symbolic understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. When our mouths are full, how we will draw on European resources, projects in the field of environmental protection, where municipalities want to supply people with healthy drinking water, build sewers, cleaners, which the country has promised the European community to build by a certain time. The municipalities have been funding these projects, preparing projects, buying up land, substantial resources, and now, as a result of increasing costs mainly in the area of social and early childhood protection, they find that they have virtually no investment resources left. By the end of the year, we want to draw as many of these European funds as possible, where municipal money is also involved. All municipalities will also have to accept the rebalancies of their budgets as the funds go down. Tell me, what will they do — kindergartens, social services, or investments? What's it gonna look like at the end of the year when contractors don't get paid bills? I am convinced that, in the field of transport infrastructure and environmental infrastructure, it will be significantly less exhausting than this budget provides that it will not only be 250 million less, but that 500 million less, because we are in mid-July and should be completed by the end of September, that we can still expect to draw on these European funds. Some congregations, although preparing projects and wanting them very much, fear that they will have no place to pay their share. I therefore also appeal to those Members who have been active or are still active in the local community to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u262	Your Honor! I also propose to support the amendment to increase funds for investments in local self-government, or specifically in municipalities. All major state infrastructure projects stand. They stand mainly for two reasons. First, because there is a big problem and a problem of putting them into space, and secondly, those who are ready, more or less all fall on public calls. With the rebalancing, we take investment funds to the municipalities to get those small craftsmen, even those small construction workers. I propose that other fellow Members also support the proposal to increase investment funds for municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. Anyone else want to explain their voice? Mrs. Brunskol, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u264	Thank you very much. As a former representative of the local community, I know very well how much these funds mean to the municipalities. I also spoke in the mandate of the previous government that the municipalities are the generators of development, and I have ever been picked up a little bit in this regard. I'm still in that position today. It's one thing. At a given point, we cannot increase the funds if they are not taken from anywhere. The opposition colleagues understand this very well, including colleague Pukšič, but it is better to perform, so to speak. He did not mention, however, that he would like to give it to Ljubljana. I don't know why he hasn't said it yet. At a given point in time, I cannot support this amendment, but I will definitely do everything that will help the municipalities to the greatest extent possible in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brunskol. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u266	Thank you very much. There is no way to avoid misunderstandings, no amendment, Mrs Brunskole, if it is not balanced because it cannot be discussed or decided. All the amendments we tabled in the parliamentary group are intended and have faith. The statements we hear are incorrect. I will support this amendment myself, as will everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Is everything all right, Mrs. Brunskole and Mr. Puksic? Anybody else want to explain their voice? Here you go, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I also believe that the municipalities are not only generators of all the smaller investments, but these investments are extremely transparently managed. Most mayors, not only have control of the municipal council, the supervisory committee, but also of other citizens in smaller municipalities. I believe that at least in these critical times, the recessional times of this smaller investment in the congregation, where at least some of those things can be mitigated, including small craftsmanship. I'm sure the money will be found. I think I have repeatedly pointed out, including to the Committee on the Economy, that the country lost 50 million euro in the 3 or 4 months of this year alone because of the wrong excise policy, of which 32 million euros in oil derivatives and 18 million in cigarette excise duties. Here's the money. The Government may change 50 plus or 50 minus by a regulation nonstop after any government meeting. This is what the law requires of them, and it can change this extremely quickly. I warn and have repeatedly warned that there are even more resources here for Slovenia to acquire these funds and that they are intended to invest in the municipalities. You are also full of other colleagues and colleagues always in the municipalities where you work. I think you'll support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure. Anybody want to explain their voice here? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the sub-programme of the Incentive for New Businesses and their Growth. We decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group's SDS sub-programme for the new businesses and their growth. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u270	Thank you very much. This is about at least partially correcting the balance of the budget, which the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has cut by €62 million, in particular European funds, a key part of promoting new businesses and for the further growth of these companies. Otherwise, I welcome part of Balance B, which is devoted to more or less return funds to promote the economy, but in some specific cases, especially when talking about new businesses, start-ups or start-up subsidies are also key. It is weak that funds are being significantly reduced here, so we propose that, in terms of activating the economy, in terms of creating new jobs, in terms of the paradigm "think small first" or "think small first", which is applicable at European level, these amendments vote, provide these additional funds to finance new businesses and to co-finance their growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group's SDS sub-programme for the new-found companies and their growth. Does anyone want to explain their voice here? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Providing a favourable environment for the development of tourism. We decide on the amendment of the NSI Group to this sub-programme. Anybody want a word? Here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u272	With the previous amendment, we have provided €3 million for the promotion of Slovenian tourism. This amendment would provide an additional EUR 2 million. I think this is a very important investment or very important investment in the Slovenian future. Slovenian tourism currently employs 46,000 people and with each euro we would create a new job more. Today, we all have another chance to create a new job by pressing the button. These are concrete contributions that we can make in this House. Given that the number of votes varies from what a nice person asks, I would still ask you once again very nicely to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u273	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u274	I will vote against this mainly because it is more than clear from the planned programmes and what they need in this area – they have more than made it clear that they need 3 million and are being corrected. In any event, the funds would eventually be transferred because they would not spend that money. This promotional amendment, which has been tabled, has no own effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on amendments in the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We first decide on the amendment of the NSI Group to this sub-programme. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to the same sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. We decide on the amendment of the NSI Group to the sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u276	Thank you. This amendment is intended to finance the consequences created or caused by natural disasters. In recent years there have been quite a few, and many congregations have been doing away with natural disasters since 2010, so that the money would be in bloody need. Also from this address, I ask you to support this amendment, because in some way it would prevent any new damage and also protect some life. If this was about the previous amendment to create new jobs – colleague Möderndorfer said it was a promotion amendment, but this expression does not bother me if it calls the creation of new jobs a promotion amendment – then let's say that this amendment is a life-saving amendment. Please support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Maintenance of Public Railway Infrastructure. Mag. A visionary, an explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u278	Your Honor! I will explain my voice to the two amendments, to this and the next, so that I do not specifically apply, because this is a very related purpose. First, it is the maintenance of public railway infrastructure and then it is an investment activity on railway infrastructure. Even in the discussion with the Minister of Infrastructure, it is more than clear that Slovenian railways are eager for additional money, investments in terms of security and at least partial modernisation of the relatively obsolete railway infrastructure. This is a major asset that would also enhance security. For this reason, I recommend that we support at least these modest means to raise the level, and believe me, the absorption is ensured here. There's no fear of spending them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u279	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 41. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Management and Current Maintenance of State Roads. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u280	Thank you very much. I see it's worth the effort. Now there are only 4 votes between those in favour and those against. I hope I didn't get your attention again, but you'll be pushing harder against it. This is an important amendment that increases the means of managing and maintaining state roads. Probably none of you in Parliament need be convinced that state roads are not in the best position to need funds at least for the most urgent repairs. That's exactly what this amendment is about. This is a relatively low sum, and I hope that at least this amendment will receive support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Brunskol, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u282	Thank you very much. In this amendment tabled, it must be said that in the budget rebalancing, the Government has prepared an increase of €17 million in the state roads item, so that if we look at it realistically, it is not a reduction. But it is true that there is a difference between sub-items. One goes down by 16 and one goes up by 31. Since the state roads were destroyed in view of the severe winter, the government did not reduce funds. I think it is necessary to say this, and that is why we do not need to accept this amendment at any given time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I think it would be right that this amendment should also be supported by those Members who have changed their status in the last six months, because if you look six months ago, these discussions were aimed at increasing these funds, mainly because of the extremely difficult winter season and because of the poor road conditions in this regard, and also because more funds had to be spent on ongoing maintenance due to the extended winter season. It is true that part of these funds has been redeployed under the budget itself from the current to investment maintenance, but these earmarks are still sufficient to be increased in the manner proposed by this amendment. For after the increase in compensation for road use last year and after the adoption today, when the Government renewed this 13% on average, these funds will be available for EUR 161 million and 162 million this year, together with the transfer from last year, which means that the funds in this part are provided. It is only a question of will whether the ruling coalition wants to follow the same principles and principles as it did about six months ago when it stressed the importance of making more funds available for investment maintenance on road infrastructure. So I propose that you support this amendment, because, as previously said, like all others who are proposed, it is also in a financial sense neutral and balanced.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user Ministry of Health and to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at secondary and tertiary level. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is intended to preserve public health. But this is not an amendment to grant a new concession, for example, to the visible representatives of the Social Democrats – I think of private health. It is about maintaining the investment rate that was set at Slovenian hospitals at the secondary and tertiary levels of health care. Many hospitals face a number of problems, and updates are very much linked to the preservation of public health, a respected and respected Member of Parliament, who has spoken on this subject today. I believe that support for such an amendment, which, by the way, would have all the support of the Minister of Health, would have been a very important upgrade to the public health system, because investment, as I say, is essential because of the poor situation in these institutions. We are proposing this amendment for 10 million more funds for these investments. This is just a glimpse into some normalization of the health situation. I'd like to point out one more thing where the current coalition is drilling a hole into the public health system. The bill, which will be discussed on Monday, will also cover one measure, after which employers who will hire young, exempt contributions, including health insurance contributions, will be paid. I'm warning you, this outburst will have to be covered in a medical box. Such an amendment with these 10 million may, on the one hand, contribute something to the preservation of public health, resulting in a reduction in investment funds and other inflows and revenues to the health treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. Does anyone want to discuss or explain his voice? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 34. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the specific part of the proposal is fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. Does anyone want to explain their voice here? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 33. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have thus concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. I ask the representative of the Government, Minister, whether the proposal for a state budget balance on revenue and expenditure is harmonised. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u288	Thank you. No, due to the amendments adopted to the Special Part of the 2013 Draft Balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the budget is not harmonised and therefore a harmonisation amendment needs to be drawn up. It takes half an hour for the government to prepare the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On the basis of the Government's opinion, I note that the proposal for a state budget rebalancing is not harmonised, so by 5:30 a.m., the Government should, within the next half hour, prepare an amendment to harmonise the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. Until the amendment of the Government, a mother's working body will also be identified. I hereby end this agenda item and the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, as the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is to meet in a large salon in 30 minutes. We'll resume the session in an hour. Just a moment. We have another announcement. I inform the members and members of the Committee on European Union Affairs that the meeting of the Committee will be held in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič in 5 minutes. The meeting of the National Assembly shall continue within an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u290	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is by addressing and voting on the Government's amendment to harmonise the 2013 draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, who addressed the harmonisation amendment, want the floor? I give the floor to Mr. Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u291	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 63rd urgent session, on 11. Seven. 2013 was treated as the parent working body by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's harmonisation amendment to the 2013 Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the Special Part of the 2013 Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government has prepared an amendment to harmonise the proposal for a budget rebalancing in individual parts. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal, it is necessary to harmonise the overall work and to harmonise and amend the Development Programme Plan. The Committee endorsed the harmonisation amendment at its meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u292	Thank you, too. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the national budget's proposal for a rebalancing. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Since the amendment has been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 32. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the 2013 Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Bojan Starman, Member of Ivan Grill [[Slovenian Democratic Party]] and Ambassador Aloyzi Potočnik [[Positive Slovenia]] to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the final text of the 2013 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the decisions taken by the National Assembly. We still vote on this decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 11 July 2013, which you received on e-club. We are moving on to Article 4 to decide on the amendment of Article 4 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u293	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support this amendment because we believe that any further indebtedness and increase in debt in such critical circumstances is inappropriate in Slovenia. As we can read from the Government's explanation, debt is made at the expense of bank recovery, and we do not know and today we have neither the answers to the questions about when this recapitalisation will take place – either before or after the bad claims have been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company. We have not received any other important answers to the questions under which the recapitalisation will take place. I believe that, over the course of the next year, there is sufficient time to decide on this concrete increase in the level of State indebtedness and that, in this case, some of the government's nancial currency for additional indebtedness is inappropriate, risky and can also be devastating to the stability of public finances. We therefore believe that the scope of the debt should be maintained, as provided for in the current law on the implementation of the budget. We expect the government to come when the need for debt comes with a very concrete and very specific proposal in connection with the rehabilitation of banks. I believe that the 20 billion-dollar debt of the country, billions and 550 million Euros is a major deficit this year, a critical limit that we really need to think seriously about for each euro, and in some ways also by shaking hands to decide whether we owe additional debt to our future generations. The Prime Minister of the Government said that young people are a great opportunity for Slovenia. If this is true, why do we give them such a big hole in public finances as a traveler for their lives? For we who sit here today will never recover this debt. It's going to be taken care of by our craftsmen. I don't know why we are so easily increasing the level of indebtedness to these particular generations who are unable to reach jobs today and who will pay mainly in the past the wrong decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u294	Thank you. I note that we can move to a vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law.In the second reading, the proposed amendment has not been adopted; we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we get to the vote on the law? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 25. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 10 July 2013. First, we decide on the amendment to Article 12. This is an amendment to the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Can we vote on the amendment? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u295	Thank you. I'd comment on the whole marriage, if you'll allow me, and the amendments to shorten the matter. The law is going in the right direction. That's one thing. Another issue, a lack of substantive interference with the work of the judiciary, is that we do not oppose the law and we will not support it. We're not gonna get in the way. It is interesting, however, that in all the amendments – in particular with regard to the amendment to Article 26 – something needs to be made very clear. The amendment to Article 26 is submitted by the Social Democrats and prevents what the Minister has foreseen and what the Government has foreseen. This is a very interesting thing. It prevents any contact of the Ministry of Justice supervisors with the staff in the courts. This means that the Social Democrats want to achieve that the supervisors of the Ministry of Justice will come to the President of the Court, talk about coffee and go home. This is no control unless they have the right to speak to the staff employed in the courts. We reject this amendment, although we are not satisfied with what the Minister is proposing, as he should have proposed more. But what he has suggested is minimal, but we want to support it, so here we will vote, as I said, against this amendment. It is also interesting in Article 30 that judges should be agreed to work for a higher court. Why is that? Their leaders, the Presidents of the Courts, should place them where there are work needs. It's like that everywhere. That's one thing. However, as far as the law is concerned, I have already said that we are not delaying the vote – we will not vote or oppose or confirm. However, as regards the amendment to Article 26, it is quite amazing that we have to step in to help the coalition because it is being mined by the Social Democrats, so that the staff employed by the justice ministry may have at least those minimum powers to exercise control in the courts. Let the coalition take this as a help to [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] the right measures. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u296	Thank you. In this stage of the procedure, when it comes to explanations of vote, I would like to point out that you should give an explanation of vote or, on behalf of the Group of Members, as has been announced in this case, or in your name, but there is no way in which you can be politicised at this stage, so I ask you to follow this provision in the Rules of Procedure further if you explain your vote. I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain their voice in their own name. If not, we turn to the vote on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners to Article 12. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 7. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 26, which is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 67. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to Article 30. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners to Article 49. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. I also conclude the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than 10 articles of the amended law were adopted in the second reading, the draft law proposed that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On Monday, 15 July 2013, the National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 10 July 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u297	Thank you. I think it's gonna take a little more time here. I tried to explain the whole marriage as such. The relationship to marriage is similar to that of the former. This means that we will not vote for or against, because we want the Minister to take away the minimum that needs to be removed, because we believe that this is a minimum. Individual amendments. Article 1 suggests raising the age from 30 to 35 years to begin the work of each judge. Let me stress that this is also the desire of the entire government and that this was the wish of the entire coalition. The coalition then changed its mind and reduced its age back to 30 years. I hardly understand why the coalition would vote against its own government, but the opposition would support it. That's a funny situation. But this provision, which was originally in law and was deleted on the committee, is returned to the basic text of the law – raising the age from 30 to 35. Voting – I will understand if you support it, otherwise it will be difficult. At Article 10, it is right to say that we have two amendments. The first are the Social Democrats themselves and then the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is a matter of the progress of the judges and whether the President of the Court can take away part of the salary for a certain period if his work is misjudged. Under number one, we have the amendment tabled by the SD and this article is deleted. This means that even if the President of the Court finds a poor judge's work, he cannot punish him. This means the adoption of this amendment, and we will therefore vote against such an amendment of the Social Democrats. However, I look forward to the support of our amendment, particularly the part of the coalition that opposes the amendment of the Social Democrats for the reason that our amendment reinforces the responsibility of the judges and imposes more responsibility on them or gives them more opportunities for the President of the Court to punish such a judge by reducing wages and other such cases. I think it is right that, given that the responsibility in our courts is questionable, what we have already found in some other cases, that this responsibility that they will carry out — this I must stress in particular — the Presidents of the courts and not those of the Ministry, should be sharpened. That is why I look forward to supporting this amendment. However, it is an interesting amendment to Article 12. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Since I'm running out of time, I'm gonna ask for two more minutes on my behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u298	Thank you. We have concluded explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Does anyone else want to explain the vote in the amendment to Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] We turn to the vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 10. I would like to remind you here that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. Can we vote? We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 67. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 12 of the Social Democrats' Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Article 12 – here we have one serious mess. Defence – only a minister can become an attorney, no one else. The Prosecutor’s Office may become Secretary of State or Minister and shall have the right to return. We have such a situation in the courts today that the judge can only become a minister, not a secretary of state, but something else. The basic text of the bill sent by the Government referred to the fact that a judge or even a staff member in a court could become anything in the government, state secretaries or ministers, and could return to court. The amendment of the Social Democrats states that the text of Article 12 is deleted, which means that officials in the courts cannot become secretaries of state or ministers with the right of return. We believe that such a solution must be supported, although it is weak. In a normal political situation, all could pass through, both ministers and secretaries of state, and in a normal political situation they could also return. But at least this is how the Social Democrats make this amendment, to approximate it with the state of the prosecution, but not entirely with the state of the defence. Therefore, the amendment to Article 12 seems to me to support it. I'm not going to give a specific explanation of the amendment to Article 26. I think it's more important than an amendment under number two to Article 10. Here we propose simply what is hygienic, nothing else – that judges and prosecutors cannot become lawyers at midnight. Today he is employed in a court or prosecutor’s office, tomorrow morning with all the written knowledge, some photocopies in the car or something like that when it's midnight, but he's a lawyer, possibly even those who knew the file before him or anything. It would be appropriate to prohibit such passage for a certain period specified in the amendment. Just like it's elsewhere. Many are subject to a competitive clause. You can't go freely in companies either, especially if you're in some kind of research job. Even if you're a cop, you can't be a private investigator for four years and stuff. Therefore, it is also right to do so in this area, with the judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u300	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, it would be easier for all of us to follow each other together if we could explain the voice in each article separately. I will rely on the 12th article, which is now on the agenda, and I will explain a little bit that it will not be as vague as you have just presented. True, the arrangements are very confusing and varied in specific areas. As Mr Gorenak has said, in this particular area that we are talking about today, a judge can become a minister and then return – there may be peace with the judges. To make this even, the government went down here and made it possible for others. It's a question that we're going to have to solve comprehensively for all professions once. But as long as the judge can be the minister, which is the highest political function, it seems to us that the judge can also be anything lower than the minister – the secretary of state, the director of the Directorate, etc. One day we're really gonna have to simplify ourselves to sort things out at the same level. As long as the highest political function of the minister can also include judges, we see no problems with the lower forms of officials. Thank you. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u302	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I note that no, so we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 12 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 35. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons to Article 26. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 26. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 39. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than 10 articles of the amended law were adopted in the second reading, the draft law proposed that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. I warn you that a decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On Monday, 15 July 2013, the National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jakob Preseknik, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of the President's mission concerning measures in the field of family policy. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of the delegation of Ms Ludmila Novak regarding the measures announced in the field of family and social policy. Voice explanation, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u303	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I propose that we hold a debate, because the response of the President of the Government has not been satisfactory. We all know that we have major demographic problems in Slovenia, but at the same time the general public does not agree with the proposed changes in the area of parental, paternity leave. That is why I think it would be good for us to have a discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u304	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u305	Your Honor! In April this year, you signed an agreement between 4 coalition parties on cooperation, which you also called a deal for a way out of the crisis, an agreement for the future of Slovenia, and I do not know what else. In this agreement, you immediately wrote your priorities on the other side. One of the priorities relating to the start-up of the economy is to strengthen competitiveness and improve the business environment. Tax withdrawals. The value added tax has already risen. The projected increase in real estate tax, the change in the methodology for the calculation of cadastral income, the rise in gambling tax and similar measures are going in the opposite direction. These are bad measures for the economy, which the Prime Minister also acknowledges. Reducing investment and slowing European funds are measures going in the opposite direction that do not improve the business environment. The reduction of the budget for the Ministry of the Economy by 62 million is a measure going in the opposite direction. This is one point where the coalition decided to go elsewhere, as it concluded a few months ago in agreement. Then we have one point which speaks of reducing the budget deficit with a focus on rationalising public spending. You're going the other way. You have increased the deficit by 53% or by a good half billion euros in the balance sheet you have adopted today. At the same time, you do not lower public spending but increase it. Third point: depoliticisation of recruitment. Otmar Zorn – I won't say another word. His resignation today or in these days and comments, why they clearly show that the politicization of recruitment has increased. Then you wrote down a very interesting statement or commitment, which is very concrete – that within three months after the show you will lower the price of electricity for industrial customers by 10%. The price of electricity for industrial customers has increased. We could still list it. Ladies and gentlemen, there are more than enough reasons to discuss the response of the President of the Government and the fulfilment of these commitments, in which you are clearly going in the opposite direction, so please let us all look ourselves in the eye here and honestly say what you are going to do in the future. For one is what is written, and another is what you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u306	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. The de facto jedan to the question of Zvonk Laha in relation to cohesion projects. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u307	In order to draw European funds from the environmental infrastructure programme, around 600 million projects have been proposed for copying. The Ministry has set certain deadlines. By the end of February, tender documents were to be prepared and all operators were to be selected by the end of June. A month ago, Minister Stepišnik said that only half of the tender documents had been prepared by the end of April, and now 30 years had passed. 6. when all contractors should be selected. So I asked the Minister the question: What projects are ready and what projects are confirmed to be implemented to draw on these European funds? I didn't get an answer. I doubt these projects will be implemented and the funds will be exhausted. Some projects are also too large, non-economic, and it would be right to review all projects and to implement those projects that are needed, which will not be too burdensome to depreciate our citizens in the field of municipal infrastructure, and to include backup projects that are also ready, those that are urgently needed and will also be implemented by the end of 2015. I am convinced that, above all, there are several projects at waste management centres, which are too large, because depository bodies are planned for 30 years in the case of abnormal amounts of waste disposal. We know that Europe has adopted a programme to ensure that no waste should be disposed of in 2020, so that 5 countries are not already dumping waste in Europe. With us, we will build such projects, which will be monuments, depository bodies, in which we will not have anything to put off, and for these projects it is a damage to European resources, because significantly smaller projects could be financed from earmarked resources – a waste loading fee. I propose that the debate be held and that those projects that will benefit this country be included, but not only that European funds will be exhausted. I will therefore vote in favour and also ask Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u308	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Ribič, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Mr Janez Ribič's question on the sale of crops in Slovenian markets and frauds relating to their origin was addressed by Dejan jedan. Can we get to the vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u309	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. I have asked the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment a very correct and well-meaning question in relation to the situation in Slovenian markets. We are aware that shoppers in Slovenian markets, who also shop in markets outside our country, sell agricultural crops, vegetables, fruits at our markets, and would like to sell them under the trademark of our farmers. In support of them and in support of selling as many agricultural crops as possible produced from the local environment, the Minister was also of the opinion that a new legislation should be drawn up, where this problem will be more easily resolved. I will not ask you to vote in favour. The problem is this: legislation is being drawn up, and it would be wise to make some suggestions, including opposition, because this is our common problem. Therefore, as I say, I will not ask you, but for those who will vote against, I will think that you support the lumperia in Slovenian markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u310	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Dragutin Mate, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. On the question of tax on agricultural land and agricultural facilities, Mr Židan was asked by Dragutin Mate. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked Mr. jedan a question about a very problematic subject. For the past 14 days, we have witnessed a broad public debate on the introduction of new taxes on property taxes. In this regard, I asked the Minister how the Ministry has acted and will act in the future and how it personally dealt with taxes on agricultural land, forests and, in particular, agricultural facilities. His answer was a bit dull. In the end, however, he somehow said that he was against this tax or at least some reduction. I think that a broader debate should be held in the National Assembly to clarify these issues, to identify the clear positions of the Minister in this regard and thus to ensure that the tax on agricultural land in use, forests and economic facilities held by Slovenian farmers are not introduced. This is the only message we can have, and by discussing here, we can help the Minister to make it easier for the Government, which obviously wants to introduce these taxes, not to introduce these taxes. This will not allow us to rob the Slovenian countryside. This will not allow 800 million state revenues at the expense of a farmer, in particular a small farmer who is already living and living his family with honest work on farms. I suggest we support such a proposal. I will support the proposal for such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u312	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the question by Tomaž Lisca on the Public call for energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Defence Minister Roman Jakič to Sonja Ramšak's question on the dismissal of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question of Mr Jerovšek, on the matter of the misuse of classified data or the organisation of data by the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Dragutin Mate, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, to the question of the Member State Dragutin Matei concerning the recognition of the pension age. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This question has been going on for two months. I will personally support this proposal. I believe that a broader debate should be needed. In this country, we have adopted certain commitments, including constitutional commitments, through independence. These commitments speak of the recognition of the same rights for people who have worked in other republics or federal bodies in Slovenia. But now we have been able to find out through these discussions, both from the Foreign Minister's reply a month ago and from the Minister's reply to the Minister of Labour, that it is not possible for some people, because they do not submit a request, to work longer and thus to provide different pension conditions. In the foreign ministry, this is due to the fact that employees are not in an equivalent position. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, workers are retired when they meet the condition of age and age. However, there are 10 workers who meet these two conditions, but because for some period of their work, several years, some 4, some 8, worked in the Federal Secretariat of the former country, do not meet another condition – the condition of years of work. This puts them in a privileged position, which is unacceptable, and this is particularly unacceptable because these people are in jobs that are highly valued. They work in secretarial posts or even higher and receive an annual salary — the cost of the state — of about €50,000, which in one year amounts to €600,000, representing 4% of the foreign ministry’s salaries. This is too much, and the state is in a situation where, and above all, the laws we have in this country and the fact that we are all equal before the law cannot afford it. You've adopted a law or a budget today, and you've left this money to the Ministry. This money could be used for new employees who would have lower numbers and could employ more people and train them to work in our diplomacy. I propose that we hold this debate in the National Assembly and clarify these uncertainties, which also the ministers were not quite clear when they answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-11-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u314	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 16th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you and goodbye by tomorrow.
