ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member, Mag. Diane Jedhan. Once again, I welcome everyone here. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the reverse law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, if he wishes to speak. He does. I give the word "magic." Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, who conducts ongoing business.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! As you are told, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Commercial Law, whose essential amendment is the abolition of the mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The basis for such a change is the case of existing coalition partners in order to adopt solutions whereby membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be voluntary, unless these members of the Chamber of Referendum at the level of integration to the Chamber decide on a mandatory membership. As you know, a consultation referendum was held at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, where 69.3% of the voters decided on a voluntary form of membership. Such a result is one of the leading reasons for accession to the amendments to the trade law with a view to repealing the provisions relating to compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The main solutions to the draft law are, as I said, the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, with the withdrawal of members possible within six months of the entry into force of the law. So there is one transitional period. The Chamber of Commerce shall remain a legal person of public law, a representative representative of crafts and shall continue to exercise certain public powers, to amend the approach of craftsmanship which distinguishes trade activities for which appropriate professional competence is required and other trade activities which will be published by the Chamber of Commerce in agreement with the Minister responsible for crafts on its website by means of a so-called indicative list of activities normally carried out in a trade-related manner. Next solution. Additional conditions for the definition of the conduct of the business in a craftsmanship. Firstly, personal involvement in the production, delivery of services or the management of a company is dominant. Secondly, the entity does not have organised individual business functions as a rounded stage of the business process. Thirdly, it is not carried out by an economic operator which, in accordance with the law governing companies, is classified among medium and large companies. The Chamber of Commerce also receives additional public powers, such as the introduction of a declaration of natural and legal persons engaged in cross-border regulated and non-regulated trade activities, such as the establishment of a permit for cross-border trade activities which may pose a serious risk to public safety or public health, such as the provision of a procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for trade operators and the issuance of so-called EU certificates. Another solution. On the basis of the invitation to tender, the Minister responsible for crafts may also grant representative economic chambers to its members. And so on, I could count it. Let me say that the Ministry sent this trade law into government inter-departmental coordination on August 22nd, last summer. The bill was submitted for consideration to the Government on 17 September last year, which dealt with this law on 11 October and that on 17 October the law came to the National Assembly. Everything since 17 October is a law with such or other procedural complications here in the National Assembly, so that one simply gets the feeling that it is not a special political will, that this intention, which has been expressed, is also implemented. At the Ministry, we support the law, as we have prepared it. I hope that he will also receive adequate support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the introduction. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! At its 7th meeting, on 13 February, the Committee on the Economy considered the above-mentioned draft law as a work force. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service in which the Service made some general comments on the system-wide placement of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise between persons governed by public law. She also made specific comments to each article. The Committee was also informed of the amendments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the opinion of the Council of State and the amendments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SDS, SLS, DeSUS and Nova Slovenija (Articles 2, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 19, 22, 26, 27, 29, 32 and 32a). Article 1(2) At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made comments from the written opinion of the Service on the systemic placement of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry among public law persons. As I have already said, with regard to the specific comments to each article, it has explained that the amendments tabled are to a greater extent also taken into account. The President of the Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance also participated in the debate, explaining that the Commission supports the proposal, but conditions its support by including certain comments in its text. The President of the Management Board and the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise also took part in the meeting and expressed opposition to the proposed law, in particular with regard to the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. The debate focused more on Article 2 – the opinion expressed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia that the amendments tabled by the SDS, SLS, DeSUS and New Slovenia do not comply with this Article. In this regard, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the competence of the service is to assess the proposed laws in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical aspects, not to assess compliance with the European legal order. This is on the proposer's side. The representative of the service explained that the amendment was extending the application of the amended regime to unregulated activities and that the proposal for amendments to the Committee submitted by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia was therefore more appropriate. The Committee then voted on the amendment tabled by former coalition members and also adopted it, and therefore the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia became irrelevant. In the context of the debate on Article 23, a proposal by the amendment of the former coalition and a proposal for an amendment of the committee was presented to Mr Branko Fick at the meeting to this article. With regard to the latter, the applicant stressed that craftsmen should decide on the property of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry themselves. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy explained that the Chamber of Commerce and Business and Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry is a public law body and therefore their assets are public and cannot be freely made available to them. He explained that the Ministry supports the Committee's amendment, and I now apologize once again to the former coalition, which states that, in the event of the closure of the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the assets can be transferred to other Regional Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, to the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise or to the local community, while the property can only be used for the purpose of supporting craft and entrepreneurship. The Committee voted on the proposal for the amendment of the Committee of Members Branko Fick and did not adopt it. He also voted on the proposal for the amendment of the Committee of the former Coalition and adopted them. The Committee considered the amendments of former coalition groups to Articles 2, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 19, 22, 26, 27, 29 and 32, and also adopted all these amendments. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is also an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for presenting the Committee's report. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 8th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. This brings us to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2013 We are moving on to article 14, 19, and article 34a and the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats to this article. Given that the amendments are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I'm putting in a debate on 14, 19, 34a. Article and amendments of the Social Democrats' Group to this Article. I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Rade Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in good cheer! I will not support the amendment to Article 14 as well as the other amendments proposed by the SD that are substantively linked to each other, because they are totally contrary to the solutions or cilia that were followed by the proposal for a trade law, and, above all, to the referendum decision of the majority of entrepreneurs who made voluntary membership during the referendum last year. One of the objectives and purpose of the amendment of the crafts law was, therefore, the abolition of the existing compulsory membership and the introduction of voluntary membership. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia's leadership to accede to the changes in the craft law was also precisely the request and referendum decision of craftsmen who decided to become voluntary members. For no reason do I see that the policy, as well as the members of the National Assembly and the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, would ignore this referendum will of craftsmen, because I think that the principle of voluntary integration is one of the principles that policy must respect. It is also true that the management’s parent working body has been given the view that voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is harmful to Slovenian trade and to the economy in Slovenia at all, but I do not see it in such a light, as it is also personally our party’s position that it is necessary to take the form of voluntary membership in all similar associations. I am convinced that compulsory membership in chambers and similar associations is a kind of silence for those who acquire the funds prescribed by law, and for the most part or many times it has no special effect. As an example, I can also mention compulsory membership in, say, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Someone owns a hectare, two hectares of grasslands and automatically becomes a member, a true mandatory member of the Chamber, although in fact he is not involved in the agricultural activity and does not serve its services. The paid membership of the chamber thus means a kind of tax because, as it is said, it is of no use. On the other hand, I agree that the Chambers, both the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and others, are necessary, and I am sure that those who are actually engaged in the activity are quite interested in their membership. However, in these chambers, they must feel some security in these relationships or make it easier for them to realize these interests in the business environment. The applicant states on the amendment to Article 14 that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise is a person of public law who, under law, has public powers to carry out certain tasks in the public interest and therefore it is necessary to have full representativeness through compulsory membership, as well as a stable source of funding with a legally defined membership. I am sure that if the Chamber will work for the benefit of the members, it will have no problems either with the number of members and consequently not with funding. If craftsmen in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry see the possibility that they can exercise their interests and needs more effectively within this association, I am sure they will be happy to join the Chamber, of course voluntarily, and, on the other hand, the Chamber will be much more motivated to be much more effective in offering these services. For these reasons, therefore, I do not support the amendments by the SD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic will be the next debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u8	President, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The basic purpose of the craft law, which was introduced into the parliamentary procedure on 17 October 2012, is to say last year, was to abolish or take into account the referendum will of craftsmen, it is said to abolish compulsory membership and to join the voluntary membership. What happened? What happened was that we stretched out this marriage and dragged it out, so that one got the feeling that something really wasn't right. In the meantime, the management of the Chamber of Commerce also changed and several different signals came from the field, so I am very divided today on how to actually act. And I think that it would not be too long, in fact we could find that it would be most prudent and meaningful if this law did not go through, that the law would actually be rejected and that the Ministry of Economy, in cooperation with the Chamber and other interested parties, would draw up a new law, such as that of all craftsmen and craftsmen in the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose of the Chamber of Commerce was to protect the reputation and profession of a craftsman. This actually happened in the beginning, and it happened — until the money ruined everything. Instead of going back on a system of reciprocity and self-help to compensate for interest rates and to cover the borrowing of credits, in the management chambers of the Chamber of Commerce they paid enormously high amounts at the expense of the payment of membership fees. When this came to the public years ago, there was a lot of smoke, then everything kind of calmed down until it was found again that the new leadership, which was then replaced, followed the previous one and also paid high personal incomes until it was cooked again and there was a referendum where craftsmen and craftsmen rebelled. And they said, "We will no longer be mandatory members of this Chamber, because this Chamber does not actually work as its mission at the beginning – to protect and defend the reputation and profession of the craftsman." "It is certainly the highest quality voluntary decision to be included in an organisation," wrote one of the regional trade chambers. "But in the given political situation in the country there is little chance of establishing a quality system of voluntary integration that would protect the reputation and profession of the craftsman. There is a great potential for manipulation to satisfy the interests of a small group of people. It is feared that for several important years we will receive a multitude of small chambers, which will not have a representative role in society, but will satisfy the appetites of individuals," they wrote. "The bill under consideration is a product of narrow interests and swift corrections valid," the swift wrote, and the law has been waiting since last year for us to confirm it, "which comes from the mandatory membership of the assembly system and is, as such, fundamentally inappropriate to determine the organisational form of the assembly system with voluntary membership. It is necessary to write a new law for the introduction of a voluntary membership chamber." And because they have written this down, and because I actually share the view that all craftsmen and craftsmen from all the regional trade halls must be unified and that the new leadership of the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts must also be aligned with the base – but the base is where there are 62 regional trade halls – and because there are different signals coming to us in the National Assembly, I have decided that because such a law is not good, I do not say that it is bad in its entirety, we could also support it as such and we would later fix it, it is also one of the choices, but I have already found many times that we must be careful when adopting laws, because crafts and craftsmen are overpowered – I can say, because I am also a craftsman – the creative potential to prepare and implement materially different, innovative social development ideas, so we need to extend the circle of those who judge them. Obviously, this has not been the case and because there is a lot of fear and fear on the ground that things will somehow turn out wrong and not in the interests of craftsmen and craftsmen. Personally, this law, I speak for myself, I cannot support it. However, I would like to write a new law and have a harmonised law in Parliament procedure and then vote on a law that would satisfy the needs of all craftsmen and craftsmen, because this is the basis and basis for the economic development of every country, not just Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette we support the abolition of compulsory membership in all chambers, according to also in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia. I agree with those who say that the purpose and purpose of the law was to abolish compulsory membership. By adopting the amendments proposed by the Social Democrats, I believe that the purpose of the law would be to destroy. Let us recall that an effective, transparent and craft-oriented chamber will have no problem with membership. When I visited some of the district trade halls, I was surprised that not all the district trade halls had difficulty in eliminating compulsory membership. But it is true that a large part of the craftsmen feel that the chamber has become its own purpose. I think that by abolishing mandatory membership, we are giving some of the regional units and, in particular, the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry an opportunity and a challenge to become tradesmen a friendly chamber that will offer such services as to ensure that tradesmen themselves are interested in paying the membership fee. So I think that there is not much room for philosophy here at all – the craftsmen have said their words and it is fair that their referendum will be taken into account by us, the representatives of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The next debater is Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister with the team! There is a law before us once again that has been debated over the past year. Through this debate, we have also come to the good solutions that are enshrined in this law. Some in the debate are talking about the fact that this debate was too long. I am arguing that the debate has been correct and necessary and that through all these coordinations there has been a law that is before us at this moment, which is good and consistent with all stakeholders to the extent that any legislation that can be harmonised to some extent because of the various influential groups. But she's never perfect, and she's never good for everyone. We all know that, and the same was true of the previous two laws, which we have also confirmed. In the Coalition Treaty, we have made it clear to the partners that we will prepare legislation that will allow voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, in view of the initiatives that have been taken by the craftsmen from the field, and of course on the basis of the decision that the Chamber of Commerce will make through membership in terms of verification at the referendum. Given that the referendum has given a clear direction that most membership is for voluntary form, there is no dilemma on how to prepare the law. In view of the difficult problem, a general debate was also held in the National Assembly. It is said that everyone had the opportunity to get to know the subject in detail and also to hear the opposite opinions. In addition, a public presentation of opinions was made on the basis of which a number of coordinations were subsequently carried out and therefore the Committee's meeting was also postponed and this other consideration of the law was postponed from February to January for this meeting. It is said that it has been possible for all stakeholders to harmonise in this negotiations and that we have before us a law that corresponds in some way to all. So I'm kind of surprised when I read the amendments that are in the package, which are actually going to negate this law and essentially turn the whole law upside down. In addition, Article 31 introduces a new term for "revolving cooperatives", which in some ways allows the privatisation of trade-business chambers after the provinces. There were no such cooperatives before in the marriage. The amendment also requires compulsory membership in trade chambers and other institutions, which the existing law does not require, but explicitly refers to the fact that natural and legal persons can be merged, it is said that it gives all entities the opportunity to make their own decisions. It is said that it introduces a major obligation, which, with the next amendment in Article 19, has also been upgraded by compulsory membership, which has been a lot of talk and a lot of coordination in the past. I have many conversations with craftsmen myself, and I must say that the fact that the majority of craftsmen are still far from holding is that of maintaining compulsory membership. On the contrary, most tradesmen in the field want this change to take effect and that the Chamber begins to act as some concrete support which depends on whether or not it provides services of quality and on this basis also acquires membership. The last amendment, which speaks of the deletion of Article 23, is contrary to what you are advocating in some parliamentary groups, is that it would not be possible to privatise this property, which is in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The law in the existing article clearly defines how, in the event of the abolition of a particular regional craftsmen’s chamber, assets may be transferred. And we have also added to the longer coordination the possibility of transferring to local communities. In this case, however, this property must remain in the function of a craftsman's support. If we delete this, we will again allow the matter to be privatised in some way through this introduced cooperative, in a way that only those craftsmen who are currently active in the Chamber of Commerce and not all craftsmen who have paid membership fees in the past. That is why I cannot absolutely support these amendments because they break the law and in some way also allow privatisation beyond all the rules of the game. I do not support these amendments, but I support the law as it was prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much again. Good-bye! I accept, my fellow Members and colleagues, all your concerns, the thoughts you have about this law, but you must also understand that since 2006, the Social Democrats have been advocating that the Chambers have a mandatory membership in their statutes. Why? Because in some ways practice also teaches us when we have organised an economic chamber in this way, we see where this Chamber of Commerce is today. To this day, some property matters have not been distributed. And I am in this National Assembly so much that I know that it goes beyond substantive issues, including political issues. When Mr Vizjak was Minister of Economy, he was able to negotiate, according to his well-trained negotiating systems, that the Chamber of Commerce was organised in the way it was organised today and that the Chamber of Commerce at that time was not. Even though it was the wish of the then coalition that the Chamber of Commerce be organized as it wanted to be organized by that government. Social Democrats are therefore opposed to this law. Of course, we will not oppose the law if our four amendments, which the President has found to be connected, are adopted. We only pursue our goals and our principles. 15 minutes ago, when we discussed labour law, it was clearly stated that the Chamber of Commerce was opposed. Colleagues and colleagues! When the Chamber of Commerce is no longer as organised as it is today, when it does not have financial resources at the end of the day to be so organised, it will also have no more negotiating power and then we will ask all of these – I respect the referendum – why no institution represents them. For many years, the Chamber of Commerce has been a quality and well represented by the interests of small craftsmen who have neither the time nor the knowledge to negotiate or to fight for their rights. That's why we had the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It is interesting that all the leadership has so far advocated this, even though we know that some of the managements have paid enormous amounts, yet the craftsmen inside the house could arrange it in some way, not to kill an institution that has been a pillar of craftsmanship for a decade. And you can't play with craftsmen. We need too many, and we're gonna need too many. That is why the Social Democrats support these four amendments. We believe that it is necessary for mandatory membership to be maintained, so our second amendment is also in line with the Chamber of Commerce, with the management of the Chamber of Commerce, where membership is somehow reduced by 30%. And I believe that even if this compulsory membership remains, it will not affect the competitiveness of the craft. Of course, democracy is why Parliament is to vote. I will not work out of this without knowing any political stories, nor do I expect from you that because of this new coalition, which will arise and I believe that in some way it will rule well in the coming year, you will know the harder tasks to bring through Parliament. We're just divided on this side and I wouldn't give as big political notes as some of you want to give, because of this law. The social laws will support the amendment. If the amendments are not supported, we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right to remember why there has been a change of law process at all. For two reasons. For the first time because the craftsmen claimed or found that the membership was too high and, above all, unfairly distributed. However, another important reason was that the management of the Chamber of Commerce has paid itself an unscrupulously high prize, including 100,000 euros. Now we come up with a basic problem that does not exist only in Slovenia. If you have followed developments in the European Union or in Switzerland, Switzerland has even adopted legislation likely to be adopted by the European Union to limit the right of undertakings to high prizes and so on. This means that Switzerland, as a beacon of Europe, has also learned that everything that is lawful is not yet fair. We have many things regulated legally and one light - year for righteousness. How do we explain fair regulation? That we have a net salary of 600, 700 euros in the public sector, while others have tens of thousands. How do we explain this to each other? Some people are hungry. I have already suggested and I hope that the new coalition will do this, the adoption of a law where the difference between the maximum and minimum wage will be 1:5. And also in this area, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has been denied by Parliament. In due time, it should take measures to prevent such abuse. This is a basic problem and, of course, these matters will have to be handled slightly differently. Personally, I think that some of the solutions in the existing law are extremely poor. I'll tell you exactly what I think. I have to look at the clock because I am always limited — I think over time. Overregulation of professions. Switzerland has recently adopted so-called entry barriers. That's what every country has. And we are putting on this small Slovenian market without every entry barrier all the way. That's not right. This does not mean, of course, that we must restrict competition. Let's see Austria. Austria did that, too. And we are launching everything in Slovenia, which means we are damaging the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian country. This should be governed by the example of Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, France and so on. All these countries have done this differently. But the Slovenians are getting more and more papal than the Pope. Since there is currently no pope, it would be good for us to start adopting, instead of smart nonsense, meaningful good legislation that will allow for long-term survival for all of us: craftsmen, that they can work and that they will have the same conditions as in Austria and Shivca, without being in a worse position now, a country that will have tradesmen who will pay taxes, and for us citizens that we can live in such a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Kristina Valenčič has the floor, then Mr Minister will have the floor and then we will open the next round of applications.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on my part, too! Ms Katarina mentioned in her presentation of her views or discussion that the National Gazette had already advocated the abolition of compulsory membership in its electoral programme, in all chambers and associations. I am also in favour of a private voluntary model of chambers, because I am confident that this will prevent the monopolistic representation of individual stakeholders in relation to the country. For this reason, I cannot support the proposed amendments today. I understand the concerns of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which were presented during the consideration of this novel. However, all these concerns stem from the fact that the State has not done enough in the field of control and the business environment or has not set up the necessary mechanisms to enable craftsmen to compete in the market. Therefore, the problem is not in mandatory membership. It is somehow logical for us to listen primarily to those to whom the laws are intended when adopting legislation. But who are they in this case? Membership or leadership of the Chamber? The craftsmen expressed their views at the referendum, they were for a voluntary model. Apparently, the institute of the referendum itself underestimated the leadership, and the membership estimated that the chamber was not working too well for the craftsmen. The management has already deposited its accounts and I am confident that the new leadership of this error will not repeat and will succeed with appropriate internal measures to convince its membership that they are here to serve craftsmen in the first place. As it is said, given that appropriate amendments were adopted at the second reading at the home work body, which were in line with the Chamber of Commerce, I should only remind myself of the open questions concerning the status form and the transfer of property from the District Commercial Chambers, the definition of crafts, the regulation of occupations and activities. In all these segments, we went to the Chamber of Commerce, so today's amendments surprise me because they are going in the opposite direction from the main objective of this novel. I am confident that Slovenian craftsmen need a strong and strong organisation, which must be based on voluntary membership and will pursue the objectives and protect the interests of craftsmen. The craftsmen have said the last word and it is right to respect it. Organisedness and representativeness should now be in their hands and not in our political hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. There's definitely something to be added to all this. Why the change in this law? It should be recalled that the former management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, after reading the ruling in the coalition contract, wanted to hold a referendum in some way, in secret, very secret to the members of this Chamber, and to achieve a favourable result in order to keep membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. The referendum took place without anyone trying to force this referendum. Neither the Minister nor the Ministry nor anyone from the Government forced the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to carry out this referendum. Personally, this story wasn't a priority for me either. They practically forced her into the Chamber of Commerce and Industry themselves, who decided to hold a referendum. So the original sin is not in politics this time, it is not in government, but is the original sin in the Chamber of Commerce itself, within and above all at the former head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, this needs to be made very clear here today. However, we have made a great deal of effort, and a great deal of time has been invested in bringing all segments of this law into line with the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, in all the changes that are within this law, because no one intended to break down this chamber, decompose or end it. It is everyone's interest that the chamber remains to retain the powers it has, in detail, which is very important, i.e. optional membership. Of course, the leadership within these negotiations, and the previous and present, has tried again and again to achieve by lobbying that there would be no change in compulsory membership. I think we have done a lot this time to harmonise ourselves, to find the right solutions, even as far as regulation is concerned, or, if you want, to deregulation of professions where we are, by the way, in Slovenia at the level of Austria, Germany and far away from the Netherlands, this time an opportunity for policy to do so. If she doesn't do it, then she'll stay the way she is. And I am sure that a significantly better solution, a much more favoured solution for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, taking into account optional membership, is simply difficult to find. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I also see a desire for a debate, so I am opening up an application for a debate. We are discussing the amendments tabled by Articles 14, 19 and 34a. Nine panellists have been reported, the first is Mrs. Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! I have to say that I have already spoken in the debates on the adoption of the Commercial Law and on the basis that I myself have been an independent entrepreneur, I know how these things work. I think that the biggest damage to craftsmen has been done by the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Business at the level of the State or Republic of Slovenia, because the regional chambers work very well. They were created on the initiative of craftsmen; they were not the founder of the state. And after some years, it was somehow forced to set up a trade hall at the state level to run lower chambers around our country. The referendum, which was held, was incomplete, and I agree with that, because only those craftsmen who disagreed with the membership fee went to the referendum. Therefore, the percentage of craftsmen attending this referendum is also minimal. I can say from my own experience that the chambers work well to help the craftsmen in the field, but from the leadership, it is said, from the top of this chamber they do not have much help. And I do not agree with the fact that the chambers at the level of the regional chambers of commerce would not receive any means of maintaining themselves, because we need to know that the property they have was also built by the means of craftsmen, those who worked in this area. And this is a huge injustice to all the craftsmen who have invested in these business facilities, whether it would somehow be divided, the question to whom. However, I believe that some of the chambers will not be able to hold up and they will be formed, especially if they do not take measures in time to start charging their services. Now the services were free. The chamber was running the Vem-vesh program for free, and in one day, so you don't have to criticize everything. And I think we should put more emphasis on crafts. This is my contribution to this. When voting on this bill, I will abstain or vote against it because I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! It is said that today we are talking about that the awards were too large, and this is our argument. This is a deviation that must be eliminated within the system itself. And they put her away. It must not weigh everything else that is, say, well done within craftsrooms. It also seems to me that what Mr Vogrin was talking about is extremely important. Have we sufficiently protected our craftsmen, or have we done with this legislation all that was right, that our craftsmen will have within the state space such competition as other countries have, and are they in the same position? If we didn't do it, we'll have trouble, we'll have trouble with the craftsmen. Look, craftsmen are one of the social partners. But who will defend the positions of craftsmen if not a craftsman’s chamber, if we do not provide it with a suitable condition for it to work — and this is a compulsory membership. As a result, it is of utmost importance that we today do not simply speak in such a way that all the congregations must have an optional membership. If we ask today, I have already said this here once before, people, residents and residents of the country of Slovenia, or want to pay taxes at the referendum, I will tell you what would be the result. That's what we asked the craftsmen. But I agree that was unnecessary. In fact, we should ensure that the authorities of the Chamber of Commerce can do what they were set up to do: defend the craftsmen to provide them with the help they need. I am also joining Mrs Plevčakova's opinion that the Chamber of Commerce, in an area where I have been active for many years, has performed its tasks well. For this reason, it seems to me that compulsory membership is one of the conditions. When we say that the Health Board cannot have a mandatory membership, we must ensure that the person who will perform its work. Then the agricultural chamber says we haven't put all the chambers in the same position. However, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce warned us that optional membership poses much more problems in normal functioning for membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry as well. Let me put it this way. Look, today we have our home-made art and home-made crafts very well arranged. Thus, we have a top-notch domestic and artificial trade also because the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is very intensively managing it. And that would be right to regulate further and also mean that this membership is declining. I think most craftsmen are aware of what they need from the Chamber of Commerce and that they can get it. It is ours to ensure the right conditions, on which craftsmen can continue to work successfully. If we do not do so, we will therefore have a worse situation or worse results than we would otherwise have. I think that the amendment to Article 14 is appropriate and also to Article 19, so I propose that we support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! We have written in our New Slovenia political programme that we are seeking voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy and so on. In this respect, we have acceded to a coalition treaty, which is no longer in force at this time, only when this law has begun to be discussed. I respect the different political principles of various political groups in this country, and I believe that colleagues of the Social Democrats have made great efforts to put together these amendments, and they will probably also understand that the New Slovenia Group cannot support them. Of course, we cannot change and change our positions every day, so we remain faithful to our principles that we have had throughout the parliamentary procedure of this craft law. Of course, it is necessary to listen to craftsmen, trade in Slovenia is not political, although the adoption of laws is an eminent political act. But when we listen to the craftsmen, I think we should not only listen to the top of the pyramid in their structure, but, above all, that it is important to listen to the basis of this pyramid, it is meant to be a foundation. These are craftsmen, members of the chamber, craftsmen in the field. Unfortunately, the craftsman in Lendava is, for example, very far to the top of the Chamber of Crafts and Crafts, which is in Ljubljana. And this top pyramid, which is in Ljubljana, is also very far from that Lendu craftsman. We in our parliamentary group have also dealt with the internal referendum within the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and have taken it as a regular one. When we talk about crafts, we are aware of the fact that crafts and small businesses are, in fact, economic development agents and are crucial to increasing the number of jobs. I think that's a fact and we mustn't ignore it. If I now look at the cross-section of Slovenian craftsmen's statements with a really long time to adopt a craftsman's law, then I find that craftsmen are clearly articulating their intention to fight for stimulating measures that will ensure the further development of craftsmanship and entrepreneurship and a more competitive economy in the future, as Slovenian craftsmen deserve good conditions for normal operation. We have taken a lot of these measures this year, a lot of these stimulus packages, which, of course, if we really want to look at them, have their effects and will also have them in the future, I am sure they have. We are working and we want to create an environment for young people to find their first job in trade. You can imagine, colleagues and colleagues, that at the beginning of its business path, you can charge or financially hit a young craftsman, even if it is only €8 or €15 or €20 per month, and these are not the only costs, there are many others. Those who have ever embarked on your business path know how many positions come at the very beginning when you have not created a single euro. And this certainly is not a good incentive for the development of entrepreneurship and some motivation for young people to choose their own business path. We, too, regret, cannot compare the sphere of trade with the neighbours of Austria or with the Germans. We know what social and political development we have had in the last few decades that they have had. There, this craftsmanship and entrepreneurial culture is significantly different. But we can learn a lot from them, what is good. And if you ask the craftsman if, in the longer observed period, he received in the form of any services from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry his obligatory membership fee, the answer is no. So it's an unfair system, craftsmen pay something, and they get nothing for it. I believe and respect the representative role of each Chamber, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and through this representative function virtually every Chamber has something. However, if he wants any special service, but surely the craftsman will order it, the contract will be, the invoice will be and the payment will be. All the time we adopted and discussed the trade law in Parliament, i.e. on the committee and even in the coalition coordination phase, I have repeatedly observed that the situation of domestic and artistic trade may not have deteriorated. I have been assured that this situation of domestic and art trade has not deteriorated, so the law which we have brought to this stage, of course without the amendments of the Social Democrats, I declare support on my behalf and, of course, also on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u28	Have a nice hello to you all. The basic purpose of amending the law was to enforce the will or right of craftsmen with regard to voluntary membership. The question is whether all craftsmen really expressed their will or whether it was merely will or even extortion. It can also be a sin of origin. Of course, it is the will to respect it or to ask the craftsmen again – in the right, transparent way. Maybe they changed their minds. I feel that the proposal of the amendments is also an interest of narrow interests, we are back in leadership, not district chambers of crafts, but some other leadership, around mandatory membership, lower membership, definition of crafts and so on. And we have leadership issues again. I wonder if communication from management is with the regional chambers that have also established them. correct, transparent and, of course, in the interest of the craftsmen themselves. I repeat, perhaps we should reorganise with craftsmen, ask them about their wishes, their interests. We had a bad experience once before, of course by then the law should be withdrawn from the debate. In Positive Slovenia, we voted against it in previous discussions. Why? Because the law has not been aligned with craftsmen, especially craftsmen in the field, not with the interests of the State and we would not want to actually get one kind of hybrid between public and private. I therefore propose to reconsider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Squirrel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister with a team, esteemed colleagues, respected colleagues, good day to you all! The proposed amendments tabled by the Group of Social Democrats essentially put the law on the head. Of course, this is not a law on whether or not it is the management of the Chamber of Commerce, but of course it is a trade law that follows that objective, that is the outcome of the Consultative Chamber of Commerce referendum. Although the craftsmen agreed with the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce at the consultative referendum, where the management of the Chamber of Commerce shot itself in the knee. I will be a Member and I must respect the institutions of the rule of law, which also means the will of craftsmen in the trade referendum. The reputation of craftsmen will not depend on the law, nor on the management of the Chamber of Commerce, but primarily on their quality service and also on the price-dependent service they will manage. Today we hear that most tradesmen are for compulsory membership, then we talk here and argue about pre-Last snow. If most tradesmen are for compulsory membership, then of course they will not step down, as the law has allowed this half year, they will remain organised in the Chamber of Commerce, determine the amount of membership each year, pay the membership fee, and actively engage in the work of the Chamber. Simple as that. However, if this is not the case, the new management will have to adapt its work to attract tradesmen to membership and payment of membership fees or certain other services provided by the Chamber of Commerce from public authorities. These amendments also set the level of the membership of the Chamber of Commerce, which is not as small as the amendment's candidate, the Group of Social Democrats, is trying to convince us that these are monetary amounts. That's not true. For 20, 25 euros per month, when we give a year through, this is one or two months' pay of contributions to pension and health insurance for an employee held by a craftsman. And it's not a low membership, because these memberships that are written here are monthly memberships. Just to compare one other chamber, which also has a mandatory membership, I think it should not have, the lowest annual membership is €8 and the average annual membership is little more than €15. I will not personally support these amendments because they put the law on their heads through the back door. It is true that this law, in our own words, has been leaking since August and leadership has changed in the meantime, and this will now be a problem and a problem. The matter is clear. If the Chamber of Commerce protects the interests of craftsmen, tradesmen will also join, actively participate in the programme and work of the Chamber of Commerce and pay membership fees. Probably for deviants like this, as we've heard before, more than 100,000 euros in prizes, but probably not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Janja the Attack has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! I recently read one of the words: "The country dies when there are no more farmers and craftsmen." I hope that we do not have such a black scenario, but in this situation we can see how responsibility on each individual is. I will not support the amendment because the Slovenian Democratic Party has announced that it will follow the professional decision of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, whether it goes to the management or its members. But if the reason why the members themselves voted voluntary membership, on the fact that only one fifth of the members attended the referendum, I refer responsibility here solely to the craftsmen themselves or their members, and therefore I will follow their decision and will not support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u34	Your Honor! The paradox is that the law was introduced because of the referendum will of craftsmen and craftsmen to abolish compulsory membership. And today, when the law is in second reading, the amendment and I are returning the actual situation or we are approaching the existing law, which I think is kind of after six months of coordination and negotiation, not to say strangely that I'm not using any other term. The adoption of the law will allow, including this bill, which is proposed, I fear, the collapse of the craftsmen's system in several small chambers, because it is not as clever as it should be. We have received so many different opinions from various regional chambers of commerce also on this final version of this law without amendments that are being tabled today. The craftsmen and craftsmen suggest that we reject this law and prepare a new law that will actually enable us to prepare ourselves better. Even if we go to voluntary membership, as it seems normal to me, it is right that we are better prepared. The protection of craftsmen and craftsmen must continue despite the fact that greed for individual leadership has in the past shown that something is wrong. Payment, not reward, as some say, payment of personal income by the high management of the Chamber of Commerce in the past has been unacceptable and unacceptable. No one today feels ashamed, even more, proud to look at us, taking money instead of actually returning that money in the form of reciprocity to craftsmen and craftsmen. From one of the other regional chambers of commerce, they wrote: "The public image of craftsmanship is very poor. With anomalies we don't know, we don't want, we close our eyes in front of them, we just make it worse. The craftsman is very passive in the system of social decision-making, which has also been shown to be at the referendum, is aside, and is often undesirable as an interlocutor." Why not? Why do craftsmen prepare and write laws who do not know the facts on the ground, not to say problems or even craftsmen and craftsmen? I have a practical case where due to the payment of the minimum membership of a cleaning lady there was a letter from the tax administration, recovery, and, of course, the cleaning lady returned the trade because she was unable to pay. A few Euros here, a few Euros there, a few Euros elsewhere, and it is estimated that for what it earns, 500, 600, 700 Euros a month, it has to give half for a variety of contributions. Maybe someone doesn't feel like a high EUR 8 per month membership, but 8 Euros there, 5 Euros there, and so on, and we come up with a few 100 Euros. I would support such a system where membership would be zero for those with minimum benefits, so they are without membership, then they could actually represent everyone equally. It says here in a letter I also received, something about equivalence in benefits and burdens. The principles of representativeness and equality also mean that all members are equally involved in the benefits and burdens of the Chamber. It would not be acceptable for non-members to benefit directly from it by developing services in the interests of the economy as a whole. It is also stated in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that we are obliged to ensure normal conditions, that people have work and, as a result, can be understood also fair and fair pay for the work done. The Chamber of Commerce must, wants or does not want to, work for the benefit of all its craftsmen and craftsmen, membership, but this membership has been disappointed in the past. And since he was disappointed, let us not disappoint him today when we adopt a law that is not in harmony with their will and their needs on the ground. We're going to get exactly what's going to happen to the Chamber of Commerce. Yesterday I received information that after some of the district trade halls they were already transferring property to some society and so on. Some even care the most about what happens to property, objects, and others. One common craftsman, craftsman, engineer, cleaner, whoever he is doesn't care what happens to those objects. He wants to know what he will have tomorrow and what this country is providing him today and what this assembly system provides for him. He doesn't give him what he's supposed to give him. If I were to assure him and if there was no greed in this country, everything would be different. Obviously, control has always been too weak, but now that it burns under someone’s feet, it wants to prevent and maintain the situation in every way. Surely the current situation is not good, we certainly need to change. But these changes must be consistent with the base. The base, however, is not a guide — neither the present nor the past — to the trade halls. But it is necessary to collect the purchase of all 62 opinions of the regional chambers of commerce and all 62 opinions to be taken into account and then to cut and get a copy of the law. That is why I personally will not support the amendments and will not support the law and will not abstain, but will vote in fact against because I want to draw up a new law that would actually satisfy all the needs of craftsmen and craftsmen of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. He asked the Mag for a word. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u36	I must intervene precisely on what has been said that the law is not harmonised. That's not true. The law was coordinated with the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the day of the examination of the law in the Government. An hour before the law was discussed in the government, I called him and then there was a talk about a transitional period. The law was proposed for a three-month transitional period, we agreed for a six-month transitional period and the president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry promised in a telephone conversation that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry would support the law in public. Of course that didn't happen. They got a six-month transition period. After that consideration of the law in the government, you know what was going on in the National Assembly. A lot of things have changed for the sake of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. And if anyone thinks the Ministry or any minister can negotiate a single marriage with 61 district chambers, I wish him good luck. I talked to two, three, four, and each had its own view of the story. Each had its own interests, had its own suggestions. I'll tell you that's not possible. However, this Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise needs one serious and credible leadership, as it is also set up to be able to speak to them at all. And I understood that if we were talking to the head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, that this leadership within its membership has some support and that communication within this large chamber is going on in a way that members and all those who make up this pyramid are aware of what we are negotiating. In the end, of course, I realized that that was not the case. But that's why it's not the Ministry's fault, it's not the Minister's fault, but you were also a witness in the State Assembly procedure, what happened. Now you confirm for yourself that you have received letters such as this and that they are different. Of course, so many regional chambers of interest. However, if we are to arrange for this to be the same under certain rules, something must be written on paper. I believe that any of the district chambers that have a different interest does not fit. I understand, however, once again, given that we have agreed with the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry that the matter is harmonised. That's why we came to the government, so we came to the National Assembly. Otherwise we wouldn't have come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues! In view of the Minister's latest performance, I will try to be as brief as possible because I think the Minister has captured the whole point. They were in line with the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, but this leadership has changed its mind, such as many stories in Slovenia. When I read the Coalition Treaty and I learned that the Coalition Treaty states that where the Chambers decide to become a voluntary member, they will also be heard, I said, okay, let it be, even though I would be more liberal, I would hope to say so, and I would support the voluntary membership everywhere, regardless of which chamber we are talking about. Once there is truly one liberal government, she will probably have enough work to make order in all the chambers. But I think the Chamber of Commerce killed itself when soon after the adoption of the new coalition contract, she rushed to the referendum. Its intention was probably to get as few craftsmen as possible acquainted with this referendum to come to the referendum as possible, because probably those who support compulsory membership, many of them probably have some, not a privilege, but some of the benefits that this membership brings. But like I said, they're driving a car. I have also come across a number of craftsmen who have been appalled by what letters they receive both by the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and by the management of individual regional chambers of commerce, where this content of these leaflets was in fact more similar to a political pamphlet than some serious substantive debate about why to maintain compulsory membership or what the possibilities or further developments of the Chamber of Commerce are if we agree to a voluntary membership. I must say that the well-known results of the referendum are very low, but the laws are such that most people can master. Here was the two-thirds majority and even more against compulsory membership, so all those who debated how at once all the tradesmen for compulsory membership were, the referendum was, the results were known. In addition, today we are talking about the abolition of compulsory membership, not the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce, as if someone were feeling when he listened to our discussions. I think that the Chamber, in this case a craftswoman, is likely to apply to other chambers if it works well, if it works for its members, all those who are touched by this assembly will have an interest in joining this Chamber. It's 2013 and we're still talking about some mandatory membership. But if an individual or a certain association sees no interest in participating in a chamber, then why force it. And also the amendments of the SD Group, when they flat-rately determine the amount of the craft, whether it is self-employed or a member of the domestic or art trade or has more employees, which would affect the monthly amount. What if some craftsman doesn't have any of it? Worse. What if a craftsman doesn't even have enough to pay monthly wages to himself or his employees, and then he'll pay the trade hall a monthly fee, and he won't get anything from it. On the other hand, if the Chamber of Commerce acts proactively, it will probably work for its members, and it will also be possible for all those who may someday decide to step out of this Chamber to rejoin this Chamber. I talked to some innkeepers, and they all said why we pay the Chamber of Commerce a monthly flat, and then we buy the raw materials, especially in discounts, where prices are lower when the Chamber of Commerce could negotiate with different suppliers or reduce margins. Many hairdressers also said why the management of the Chamber of Commerce did not agree with Sasas to reduce contributions to copyright and related rights. But no, we're on our own, we're working 8, 10, 12 hours a day, and then in the end comes some craftsmen's room and sends you a ticket because you're a member of something that doesn't suit you at all. Today, when it was a question of whether or not the Chamber of Commerce stood, that is not a question for me at all. It is important to me that the craftsmen will stand and that they will maintain their domestic and artistic trade, so I will not support these proposed amendments. To the conclusion. I agree with the minister, it's one year, which is what we're swapping with this crafty law. I was alone, after we had a general discussion, even hoping that the law would enter into force with 1. 1. 2013 In view of what the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises negotiated, the 6-month postponement period, but on the other hand we listen to the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, how fast they are, how flexible they are, could be one month after they knew what the results of the referendum were, they had already prepared themselves for this voluntary membership and would have worked as such. I personally thank the minister for having this wise hand to listen to the Chamber of Commerce. I'm saying, I was hoping we'd be with one. 1. 2013 started applying this law and not likely from 1. 1. 2014 or six months, and then three months, and this is where 2014 will be. I cannot support the amendments, but I will be happy to support the new trade law in the form proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me start by saying this, and I will try to be in the debate very briefly. I want to express my purely personal opinion and my thoughts. At local and regional level, tradesmen have repeatedly invited me to discuss this law in the past. Of course, the key question of compulsory or optional membership has always been raised everywhere. I also participated in the debate in this Chamber and came to the conclusion that there is a battle for membership within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. This was visible and is also possible to express who will be where and in which Chamber member and thus bring about a larger budget. Some of you have used the different terms "autogol", "shot to the knee", and you would have chosen one of these, but let's leave, like the ones you said, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises wanted to vote a mandatory membership with some manoeuvre. There was no talk of optional membership. Of course, they counted heavily because at this research referendum or, if you want, the polls thought that people would come to support the mandatory membership. But it happened the other way around. This vote came from those who opposed it. We have environments, including from my local environment, where in two trade-business chambers, both in Ljutomer and in Ormož, they decided to support mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. Now I'm going to say my personal opinion, but that doesn't mean how I'm going to vote. Given the interests of the Chamber, I will now say something about the Chamber of Agriculture and Chamber of Commerce and Industry, all those who are members or who are not. In this case, when both chambers had a compulsory membership, they all received the achievements of the chamber. Once there is no more mandatory membership within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and also the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, one will be financed by the regular membership of the Chamber and all will benefit from the achievements of this Chamber. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has no mandate to conduct some joint purchases if the craftsmen do not agree to do so, but it has some specific tasks it carries out. It should also be pointed out today that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry does not receive funds from the State, but receives them from the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, but again for specific programmes. I was deeply disturbed by the matter, which was related to the large payments of the cancellations or salaries they had at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Here I must say in public that I have also followed these matters, and I must say that some in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the so-called secretaries, the secretaries of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry had significantly more wages than the mayors in those municipalities. These are the problems the craftsmen have faced, and they have often thought that this is not right. And it wasn't right. If the approaches in this area were different, I would probably not be dealt with today in the National Assembly of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who might want to discuss it? He does. I'm opening an application for discussion. We are still in the process of amendments to Articles 14, 19 and 34a of the Law. I find that the three have been reported as debaters. I'm sorry, I see there's been a mistake. I'm reopening the application for debate. I'm asking politely if I can do it again. We have four panellists. The first one has the word, Mr Joseph Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Maybe someone will be surprised to hear from me about this marriage and let me be allowed. The first President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia was my father, so I lived in a family dealing with craftsmanship. I was kind of an unprofessional apprentice, so I know what a trade is and how the craftsmen serve and have to earn money. Many years ago, when the trade in the country at the time was almost almost "godly" and the craftsmen were declared capitalists, it was still important – individuals wanted to get the trade as it went – that membership was somehow compulsory. The craftsmen then had to deal with legislation that was not acceptable to them. When they created the conditions for people to do what they wanted to do and what they knew, they also created certain objects and created such a membership structure that they were fit to do and that they could eventually create working conditions. Today we live in a country favored by work and favored by crafts. But the top of this membership has lost touch with people, with craftsmanship, with people who create. Therefore, I am convinced that if we go in the direction that the membership is optional, that there is no mandatory membership, that this summit will start again with people, with better conditions for creating and living a spin. Therefore, I personally am not most inclined to be a compulsory member, but I am inclined to have the law in the direction that craftsmen and people engaged in craftsmanship have the best possible conditions for them to be able to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. As always, the devil is in humans. Remember when we established a new municipality in the previous term because the citizens were not pleased with the mayor. Now we know what the situation is in the Medical Chamber, what abuses are and what they are. The same has been true of what we are talking about today. I have good contacts with the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Nova Gorica and in northern Primorsk, and I must say they work great. I can't imagine that we wouldn't still be offering services to craftsmen to the extent they are. I am also thinking of cross-border cooperation here. The session in the neighbouring Gorica, called Expomego, has just concluded, where this district hall has organized the opportunity for many craftsmen to perform. Not to talk about a cell fair or anything. Who will represent the craftsmen? I've heard it a lot today, they say they're paying for something, and they don't get anything for it. If the Chamber of Commerce and Industry negotiates with the Government, with the Ministry, with people in Parliament and achieves some favourable result of these arrangements, then who is involved? Just the one who pays the membership fee, or everyone? Are all the hairdressers or all the chimneys or all the motorists or just the ones who pay the membership fee? I know there's a problem with membership. As Gaspar Mišič spoke, I also know cleaning service in Nova Gorica when they cannot pay membership fees. So low is the profit that the 12 euros or the amount is already too much. But it is a matter of a craftsroom, that then this social factor is also included in the payment of membership fees, that they say, "You will not pay, and you will receive our results." On 10 January, there was a public presentation of the opinions. They were drawing opinions, but very few of today’s debaters were there. Those of us have heard the situation. There were questions and the search for answers. Does the abolition of compulsory membership contribute to greater competitiveness? Are the effects of the abolition of compulsory membership measured at all? No, no, no. What happened to the referendum, I'm not even gonna talk because we know it was amazing games. And the wages. 7.000 euros net to an individual in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is a crime, but someone is really a member, and they can't even pay a membership fee! How is it mandatory to obtain a trade permit and so on? The Association of Retired Crafts and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia specifically warns in the letter - now this is more true for us who live at the border – how it will be with the protection of users of the craft service offered to them by someone from abroad. Does this natural person have any supporting documents that he can do in Slovenia? Is there an agreement with the Slovenian buyer? Is the area of quality guaranteed? How is the protection of the Slovenian consumer? Let's say the issue of guarantees for good work and so on. Who will do this for consumers if not the Chamber of Commerce and Industry? Who? You know, the tradesmen from neighbouring countries come to us, from Hungary, Poland, I don't know where everything comes from, even from Italy, they're down there, they come here to offer a low price, do a job and go. Then whether the water runs or not, whether it leaves the roof or not, is another problem. This protection can be offered to us by this chamber, even as a user. So let's be careful. The expectations of craftsmen were that we would come up with one really quality wide-ranging marriage that would protect all the smallest. I remember when I was mayor and we gave grants to craftsmen. Someone needed 2,000 euros. You said what would happen to 2,000 euros. The community gave him this. It's enough for a hairdresser to say it, I'm very clever to say it, or some farmer who needed an electric shepherd and so on. This is another area. Not everyone needs a lot of resources, but they need some kind of protection that can be offered by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry if it's not, as I said at the beginning, the devil in humans. They have to clean themselves up here. There is no Parliament, no Minister, no one else can do this for them. They've got control organs and stuff. And if this corruption is as great as it was in some of these chambers, not just in the Turn-In, then something is wrong with us, with people. There's no way out of this with the law. I will support these amendments, because I think that we would make a lot of contribution to the fact that the craftsman who lives somewhere on the periphery today has no time to go to Ljubljana to talk, not to master the subject of legislation and so on, that someone will do it for him. Those good cakes will also be given to those who are not members. That's not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I must say, too, that these amendments tabled by the Group of Social Democrats cannot be supported simply because these amendments completely change the concept of the law itself, which has been on the rise for quite some time, even for too long. Not only do these amendments, if they were adopted, put the right idea on the table, change the concept of this law, which is why the Ministry has even taken action to prepare this law. The fact is that the amendments to this trade law have produced, as has already been said several times today, only guidance, or the previous management of the Chamber of Commerce, when they checked their views on voluntary membership on the ground among craftsmen. It is probably true that the management of the Chamber expected a different result than it did at that referendum. Some of you said that this referendum was carried out because, in fact, only those craftsmen who voted against compulsory membership attended the referendum. Yes, look, as always happens with us, all craftsmen have had the opportunity to give their opinion at this referendum. However, it is known that those of us who have been mentioned in the past, as before, have also been the mayor, and I have had many encounters with craftsmen, their problems, and many times this dilemma of voluntary membership or compulsory membership has been exposed. Some craftsmen said, for years and years, I've been paying membership fees to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and I'm practically out of it. True, it was probably also his fault that he could not use the services that could be used by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry itself, but that he continued. If I really felt that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises could offer me some help, some services, I am actually willing to pay something for this service, for this assistance to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. And as the Minister himself said earlier, the amendment of this law was not a priority in his ministerial mandate, but the fact is that the amendment of this trade law was ordered by this referendum. And I recall very well when the Minister came from these negotiations with the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry before this law went to the Government, he made it clear that this bill was fully in line with the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. So the rumors I'm hearing here today that this law is not in line with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry are unrealistic, and I don't think that's right. However, I would suggest that we adopt this law today, of course without these amendments that we have on the table, because, of course, the concept of this law will be completely wrong, but this law will be adopted today and the new coalition will then have a chance to change matters. However, I think it is our duty that the Minister for the Economy was also responsible, that, in view of the referendum that took place between craftsmen and entrepreneurs in Slovenia, it was also our duty to prepare this law and have the opportunity to support it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Once again very clear for the Slovenian public. By this law, we do not abolish the chamber, but make it compulsory. It's been heard a lot of times, it's been said that we're shutting down the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but that's not true. Compulsory payment of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry shall be suspended. I alone will not support these amendments tabled by the Social Democrats, because I am absolutely against the payment of compulsory membership. For a number of reasons that I'm about to count. First of all, I have a lot of time, because I'm already a third term MEP, I'm breaking through with craftsmen and entrepreneurs from the environment I come from. And the vast majority of entrepreneurs and craftsmen are of the same opinion. For what they are paying, they do not get the "feedback" that would be required for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to be entitled to pay this mandatory membership fee. The vast majority of entrepreneurs and craftsmen are committed to making membership payments optional. And one more thing that you have spoken so much today that we do not have enough quality grounds for a policy to adopt such a solution as is proposed in the law today is that I must say the following. The craftsmen and entrepreneurs, of course, had a consultative referendum and for Dnevnik Mrs Katja Svenšek wrote: "The Management Board at the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia expected that the referendum on the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber would be attended mainly by the supporters of the assembly system. These were intended to call for a special referendum. However, lobbying for a positive result would be left to the district chambers. The plan, as it is known, failed because the media took over the referendum and members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry voted against mandatory membership on 25 April with almost 70 %. And if this is not a good enough basis for us today to make this decision to abolish mandatory membership, then I do not know what we are politicians. Are we hearing or is there something wrong with us?Oh, my God! Entrepreneurs and craftsmen have said very clearly, with more than a two-thirds majority. The Journal asked the question, "What do you think of mandatory membership in individual chambers?" See what they said in DeSUS: "In principle we are against compulsory membership in the chambers, but there are some residential chambers where compulsory membership is appropriate." The Citizens' List of Gregor Virant said: "We stand for voluntary membership in all chambers. Interested should be included in the Chambers on the basis of the quality of services and not because of legal coercion." What the List of Zoran Jankovic said: "The Chambers must primarily work effectively for the benefit of their members. Generally only coercion is not a good recipe for membership in any chamber." It's clear what the contents of what they said. And what did the Social Democrats say? This is where we get the paradox. They said: "Social Democrats advocate that members of the Chamber decide on their own compulsory or optional membership". That's what the Social Democrats said about the Journal. Ladies and gentlemen! But now we're witnessing one abnormal misdirection. And it is the Social Democrats who have said what I have read here that, on the other hand, are proposing an amendment that they want to reintroduce into this law what is required to remain a mandatory membership. They were saying something, and here they're doing something completely different. Now I ask myself, and all those who advocate compulsory membership, how can it be possible for such a short period of time to change the opinion of such important parties as to form new coalitions. How is that possible? You say one thing at a time, and you're doing something completely different right after that. Whether there is another lobby in the background, a narrow group of individuals who want or want to work hard in this country are trying, and these are entrepreneurs and craftsmen who are struggling to break through from month to month to pay for a narrow group of privileged people who live fantastically. And that's exactly what we're witnessing. Look at the things behind the salaries that led the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. And if that's not a strong enough signal for Slovenian politicians to cut it off. On the other hand, the 70% majority of entrepreneurs and craftsmen who attended the consultation referendum decided against compulsory membership. And who among these politicians who sit here hopes to work contrary to the interests of most who are affected by this problem? Who, tell me?Oh, my God! There are only two answers: whether there are other interests in the background or those we are sitting here, some things we do not understand in the right way. There can be no other answer to this question. Me and the Slovenian Democratic Party will never support these amendments. At least I think we are politicians who have to show a real, fair and responsible face before the Slovenian public. We cannot defend a narrow group of individuals. This is all too much in Slovenia. And this ruse! I listened to Mr. Music today. Look, I really don't know what world Mr. Music lives in. And I don't want to talk about individuals, but what he said -- it's a shame I don't have his magnetogram here to read again what he was saying. I don't understand that. And I really don't understand that we can say something, but we're doing something else. And we're once again advocating a narrow group that would like to live at the expense of a mandatory membership super. And if we do not adopt this law today, believe that we are working against those entrepreneurs and craftsmen who voted against membership by 70%, we are working against their interests. How can politics allow that? Above all, those parties who are supposed to be pregnant in the next government, before they even have a government in their hands, are working against the interests of those who are being Tangled! Policy is and must be that we care and work for their interests, for the interests of every individual in this country. However, it is not a law that would satisfy each individual when it comes to certain areas. However, the policy objective is to find the best, most competent solutions that will satisfy the majority in a particular area or environment. And today we're talking about the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Dear colleagues and colleagues, look, I'm sure you're also walking among your people, walking between entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and talking to them. And those who do so today cannot vote for these amendments tabled by the Social Democrats. You can't! Because then you're not principled or you're doing something you don't understand. Members and Members of Parliament should not be allowed to do so. So please, and I expect that if you are already preparing a new government, give the one you are preparing, well, don't fail the exam before you have a government, and prove that you are working against most of those who have made a different decision. That's what Slovenians and Slovenians understand! Go ask entrepreneurs and craftsmen today! There's been a whole bunch of calls. They say, "Please, for once, let us respect people's will!" Yeah, why are we sitting here in the National Assembly? For who? To respect and help people! And I really think so. I hope that one day in the National Assembly we will gather enough strength and begin to think about most. And start to prevent individual narrow groups that live at the expense of minorities super! Look at these rooms! Not to speak of the Medical Chamber, and so forth, not to spread this story. And everything that's been going on lately, you're all familiar with these things. And that's because they have pre-funded resources and they can live, they can do whatever they want. However, if we had to fight on the market and prove by our work that they are worthy of certain resources, this would certainly not be the case and there would be no problem. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as it is now, is definitely not in favour of the tasks, objectives and interests of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. It's not! That is why something needs to be changed here. And if the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, even if we end the mandatory membership, does what entrepreneurs and craftsmen want, there will be no problem, believe me. But on one condition: if I pay 20 euros a service, I have to get this service. But not to pay 20 euros for someone living at my expense and receiving 7, 8, 9, or I don't know how many thousands of euros! And I don't know how many, 50, 80, or how many thousands of euros I don't know! Well, are we normal in this country to allow this to be overlooked? I can't miss this anymore, my dear friends, we can't! Let's get some clean wine and stop falling for the lobby! Look where these lobbies have brought our Slovenian country! Look at you, my dear friends! It doesn't matter which customer or who. It doesn't matter if we're right, yellow, red, whatever. My dears, I'm sure we should all have a similar purpose and interest. And a similar goal and interest is to try to do everything in the interests of all or most citizens and citizens. This should be the primary task of each and every one of us. But we will always have lobbying that will try now one "fehtat", another "fehtat", let us put those amendments, let us try to do that and so on – in order to protect your ass and your fat salary at the expense of those who work night and day. And I know around when I walk around my friends, entrepreneurs and craftsmen, these are automakers, auto mechanics, innkeepers and so on. And look, these people, when they're working 10, 12, 15 hours a day in this frost, and finally at their expense, they give what they've been producing to someone there, and they give money that they've practically done nothing for, they're super alive. Is that fair? Is that right? Let's not get carried away, and at least the policy at national level should understand this. And this is the first time we have a test to show whether we are willing to defend those who have decided at the consultation referendum with more than a two-thirds majority to disagree with some things. And if we're not able to understand that and then we're talking about what I've been listening to here today and we don't have the right grounds to accept this solution today, then I really don't know what kind of world we're living in. Maybe I don't fit in here, I should be living in Antarctica somewhere, and I think it'd be different for you to understand all this stuff. Therefore, once again, I and the Slovenian Democratic Party of these amendments will not absolutely support and absolutely support optional membership. I am sure that most of this House will follow us, because I am sure that all Members and Members are sufficiently credible and understanding enough to understand what is essential and important for our citizens and citizens. I am sure that at the end of the day we will also confirm this law without these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I see a desire for a replica by Mr Gaspar Gaspar Music, also by Mr Happy Meh. However, I suggest to both of you, as well as to the rest of you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that I open up another opportunity to discuss that you are not limited to just three minutes, you may also have one minute more. At the same time, however, I would warn everyone, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that in their deliberations, you stick to amendments, points and laws, i.e. the crafts law that we deal with, without personal discrimination and insults, both personally and individually, to individual political parties. I'm opening an application for debate. Five panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u50	That's what I'd say. The amendments simply try to define, but Mr Pojbič, be so correct and listen. This is not my right, Madam Vice-President, but I sat in this National Assembly from the beginning until the end of the debate when we had a presentation of the law and I sat and listened from the beginning to the end. From here on out, this is what we're proposing here. Here people suggested in this congregation, and there they could hear that what was, was an opinion, and that is why we did so if anyone asks. Mr Minister said that he had the president's telephone position that the law was harmonised. The position of the current President is that the law is not in line with their position. They oppose optional membership. And if you ask where we come from, then here we draw this proposal and our certainty that we can do damage if we delete the mandatory membership and thus put the craftsmen who may be in a poor position because of the business results, the craftsmen as a whole in a worse position. You're talking about tight groups, there's always tight groups, whether it's parliament or it's government or it's a political party. We are now talking about the craftsmanship and the craftsmen, not the lions, not the right ones, those who serve their own bread, and the fact that it would be right to be an association, and this is the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, which will defend their views and work for their own good. That is why I am convinced that we are working for the benefit of the craftsmen, with perhaps another necessary change. Look, the will of the people, ladies and gentlemen, we have not respected. We did not respect it when we were told what to do in the market outside, but in other markets in Slovenian cities. Neither did the Slovenian government respect the will of the people, nor do we here, people have told us to back off, start doing things differently. It was necessary to trigger a constructive distrust when we were talking about people's will. Therefore, I say that we have a legitimate right to put these amendments in a good faith and in good faith, which would put the tradesmen in a position so that even as an organised group of people working in this country, we can also, in an organised manner, defend the position of an important group. All the anomalies, which are, of course, narrow individuals, are wrong, but that's not why we're going to destroy the whole. It is necessary to eliminate the anomaly and organise the whole to work well. Look, even in the National Assembly, which is legitimate and good work, there are some individuals among us, or we are individuals who do not belong here because of the various things we have behind us. Among the politicians, we have people who are good people, and the anti-corruption commission has told them that they do not belong to those policies that deserve our respect, so we will not liquidate the Slovenian government, nor this parliament, nor anyone else, nor the parties. They'll stay. We need to clean this Slovenian space so that the people we work here will be respected, that we will respect and that I will speak with respect to everyone and with this right to propose something. But if it is not accepted, because this is the best instrument of democracy, we are voting and we have found out what is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič asked for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I really won't be long, but I will. A colleague who spoke behind me now said that it was necessary to listen. But I say the following. One is to listen, the other is to hear. I repeat, it's another thing to hear. And you know what needs to be heard? That 70% of all who attended the referendum voted against compulsory membership. And I'm asking you nicely, do you really not hear or just listen? I won't just listen, I won't, I'm not in the National Assembly to listen, but to hear the interests of our people and work in their interests. And that's the point. And that's what you said. It's important who was here talking about staying a mandatory membership. Did entrepreneurs and craftsmen say that? Lord Meh, I'm sorry. I know who you're talking about. The ones that were great at the expense of these entrepreneurs and craftsmen. I know. I can read. Please read the papers a few days ago, what it said, what kind of retirements they share, what salaries they have. I'm not talking about Lucky Meh. I'm sorry. Don't bother me because I wasn't talking about Lucky Meh. But I'll say it. It has been said that the Slovenian political space of those who are baranting in one way or another must be cleaned. That's right. Of course you have to. But one more thing, it has to be done in Velenj and Šostanja. That's where you have to do it, my dear colleagues! We have a lot of reasons for that. We can listen, too. I can hear. What the media says doesn't just write without a connection, they already know what they're writing, they say it's where the order has to be made. But I am absolutely in favour of this order being done everywhere, in every place, for everyone in this country to be treated the same. It should, unfortunately, not yet, but I hope that one day this democracy will win and win in such a way that we will all be equal before the law. When that happens, a number of dilemmas and elites in this country will be eliminated. Thank the eternal God that one comes into this national assembly who works with the heart, soul and responsibility for his own nation. When this National Assembly has all such Members and Members, Slovenia will also be on a different path and not on such a road, believe me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u53	Mr. Lucky Meh, there are no replicas on the replica, but you will be able to apply again. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u54	Dear fellows and fellows! I have no doubt that today in this Chamber we all wish the craftsmen and craftsmen well that one and the other and the third that you defend and defend what is best for our craftsman and craftsman. However, we must realize that in all this euphoria we want to do good and the best, and we overlook and always share in some of yours, ours and such. I think that in this country, as far as craftsmen and craftsmen are concerned, there are not yours and ours, but there are good people who want only to work and to receive a proper, fair payment for their work, so I ask for some understanding so that today's debate does not lose the compass. Dear and dear colleague Pojbič, if you would listen to me when we spoke on the committees and in the first reading and in the second reading today, you would find that you were actually listening, but you did not hear. You didn't hear me because I actually explained why I was against the amendments tabled in favour of compulsory membership and why I'm not sure that I would support such a law, even if it were to be supported, we should eventually change it, because the current situation is really a bit chaotic. Why? Let me explain. From the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, they called me and also from some regional chambers of commerce and said they were already establishing certain companies, transferring property, etc. I fear that if we are not careful enough, this law will allow for the collapse of the craftsmen's system, so we are warned and proposed by the very large district chambers to wait. If you remember, gentlemen, the new president of the Chamber of Commerce asked us on the committee on the working body to withdraw the law, so that they should have more time to prepare a new one. You must not overlook that since the referendum and the expressed will to be respected, my personal opinion is such, so I support that compulsory membership is no longer voluntary, but the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce must strive to work for the benefit, in the interest of the craftsmen and not for the interests of a narrow group as has been heard today. However, in one third of the Chamber of Commerce, it was stated that leadership along with the congregation has repeatedly succumbed to the interests of the most powerful. Here it gave me the impression that in fact the Chamber of Commerce was established to protect the reputation and profession of a craftsman, it is called small craftsmen and entrepreneurs. On the other hand, we have the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where, in fact, some logic is intended to include larger, medium-sized enterprises, etc. But everything is nice and good, but it is interesting to find out and realize that they are small craftsmen, that is, those who are espouses who are self-employed do not earn anything more than the wages of a worker who is employed temporarily or indefinitely in an enterprise. These are actually the most. Most of these are small ones, which, even with their work, do not earn even 500 to 600 euros a month, or seven or eight hours a month. And that's the worst. That's why I would actually warn all of us here, we advocate a better life for craftsmen and craftsmen. And don't argue at this point that we're opposing each other, we're defending each other, we're defending each other. That is why my proposal is compromised because we have so many different opinions and because we are not prepared and because we are threatened by the collapse of even the craftsmanship system in several smaller chambers. And then you know what it's like, where everything's distracted, they call someone "screech and rule." Apparently, it is in the interest of someone to congregate craftsmen and craftsmen and then take over, someone has an interest in "snatching" the property that was actually created through all this position with membership fees, is called money of craftsmen and craftsmen. Believe me, if the money that was raised, the money from the tradesmen's and craftsmen's membership were to be reimbursed back under the reciprocity system so that the Chamber of Commerce would pay or subsidise high interest in banks for the purchase of basic assets in order not to do so. If the system were transparent and supervised, so that the highest peak and leadership of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry would not pay between €10 and €18 000 per month plus rewards, not to mention cancellations when the secretaries left, everything would be fine. But apparently, human greed has no limits, and where it actually runs into an opportunity, it seizes that opportunity. Therefore, wherever a person manages a common property, the common property must be controlled, and he must be so honest. He can't be tempted. Because it turns out that when you're tempted, you actually make a mistake. A lot of people did that. We must prevent people from being tempted by their own greed. There's been too much greed in this country, and that's why we're at this point, and that's why our governments are falling apart, and that's why what's happening to us is happening to us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like the craftsmen to take time to prepare a new concept of law, together with 62 regional trade chambers. Some of these guidelines have been sent to us, and there are a lot of them, and the Ministry of the Economy should take this initiative to prepare a new concept, a new proposal for a law, because once the system is broken up, it will be too late to put together. Once we've destroyed something, you can't put it together anymore, even if you stick it with a super-attack, it doesn't hold so well, it starts. The crucifix is always a crack. There will be tectonic movements in the entrepreneurship system as regards their chambers or our Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It'll fall apart, and we'll never put it together again, ever. And I advocate voluntary membership, so it won't be a mistake not to be listened to and heard again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! As far as the craftsmanship law is concerned, I must say that we have not dealt with any law in this mandate as much as we do with it. This has been going on for about a year. I must say that the Ministry has worked extremely hard in these coordinations, negotiations with the old leadership and also with the new management of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. And it listened to them as much as possible. I was even surprised when this law was passed that way. This is said to be more than the full readiness of the Ministry with its co-workers to accept their wishes, needs and to place them in this bill. We must also be aware that the previous management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has called for this inquiry referendum and that membership in the vast majority has opted for voluntary membership. This, of course, must be taken into account, and I will also take this fact into account in my vote, because the first thing is the desire of membership not the leadership of the Chamber. Of course, the direction of the chamber should take into account the wishes of its membership, which is why it is there. I also believe that the Chamber of Commerce, which has an optional membership, is in this case also a Chamber of Commerce, so that the other Chambers should operate in the same way. Of course, the idea of leadership regarding voluntary membership is that it will be necessary to work with its members to ensure that these funds are available for any assistance they may need to be provided and charged. If you get the money just like that, your effort is certainly not what it's going to be. The desire for compulsory membership and membership is by the management of the Chamber of Commerce, which I do not think is right to advocate such a principle or such a solution in the light of the outcome of their referendum. Many refer to the fact that the referendum was not attended by enough members to attend this referendum by those who were against compulsory membership. This means that the previous management of the Chamber of Commerce has apparently misaligned the organisation of this referendum, but this is their problem. This is said to have been followed by bad deeds, and the result is likely to be the new leadership of the Chamber of Commerce. I must say that even in the course of our coordination, the position of the new leadership has been contradictory to the wishes, to the needs of the previous leadership, which I was surprised if the management of the Chamber of Interests meets the interests of membership. It was also said earlier, I don't know, the collapse of the chamber regarding the transfer of this property. This property would also have been otherwise advocated by previous management, as it is new, and, of course, we also accepted the wishes of the new leadership, so that this property could then also go to the local community, which the previous leadership did not want, among other things. To conclude, because my predecessors have basically told everyone that I would support this law without amendments to the SD. I do not think that the position in the DeSUS Group has changed in this regard and that we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah has the floor. He's not here. Then the next one has the word, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I think today's debate has gone in a number of directions. I respect the opinion of people who are different in terms of compulsory, optional membership in a craftsman's marriage, but I have nevertheless become aware of somehow ignorance of the numbers and, above all, ignorance of the basic input of democracy, and these are the so-called elections. Whether they are elections to the Chambers, whether they are parliamentary elections or to the President of the State. But here, I think, there have been some very extreme interpretations of this craftsmanship law, which, in fact, with real reality or with numbers in fact, have no real meaning. I have to admit, I've had quite a few concerns about the craftsman's marriage. I was interviewing in my place at the Lenart trade hall, where we discussed some of the positive and negative aspects of this law, what could have happened if it had happened. However, the craftsmen think that this is a common principle that they need some umbrella organisation that represents them. Some doubts about this today are also expressed by some of you who spoke before me. On the other hand, I wonder what the advantage is. It has the advantage of either having some legitimacy or free will in the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce is an interest association, an interest association of members. We are now interfering with some democratic foundations in the Chamber of Commerce and would like to overcome them by deciding as representatives of the people, that is, denying the will of the members of the Chamber of Commerce and deciding otherwise. That's what some of you want here today. I'm not on the side of these. I must admit that I support free will and I must decide that the Chamber of Commerce has experienced this untrustworthy referendum, as we have already said today, we have also gone to the state level or to politics in our debates. It's an untrustworthy thing. In particular, she is an untrustworthy person in the sphere of some incest acts that have taken place, that the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has had at the highest level several times the salary of the President of the State or the Prime Minister. On the other hand, whenever a thing is not concrete, as you might say in a rotating jargon, people try harder. People are trying, we're not going to destroy the Chamber of Commerce with this law, but in this case we're going to force leadership or the officials of the Chamber of Commerce to somehow try to keep this membership by means of new measures. I also held meetings with the smallest craftsmen you have mentioned today, especially Mr Misič, of those smallest, shoemakers, tablecloths and all those who fight for their wages. You know, someone who can barely get their own income together within his espionage, whatever he has, 30 euros, 20 euros is not enough when the whole thing is on some level. We must admit that the internal democracy within the Chamber of Commerce was May. On the other hand, in the debates, which were very interesting, I heard that we should wait. I don't know what to wait for. Can we wait for the next 5, 10 years – what should we wait for? Are we waiting for people to change themselves? For so many years, something hasn't changed much, and now let's wait. Now that we've burned some of them under our feet, maybe we should start doing something. Of course, it would be unfair for me to now focus on some of the district halls because I would be doing a great injustice. I think some are doing extremely well. The income of some officials is extremely low there, too. Above all, it is critical of the complete system of the Chamber of Commerce. On the other hand, it was also an interesting idea that the Chamber of Commerce is working towards the reputation of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, since craftsmen are also small entrepreneurs in our society. I'd deny it — she didn't try. Look, it's only in this National Assembly that I listen to debates about what level people are talking about. Some Members have no contact with the real world at all. They don't even know where most of the money they've earned comes from or most of the money that comes into the budget. Most come, about as well as across the border in Austria, from small family businesses and craftsmen. We have very few large companies. And it is Austria that proves that with small craftsmanship they support – for the first time, they adapt extremely quickly to the market, and they also have quite demanding products. And this is what the strategy of Slovenia must be in the coming years – top manufactory products with high added value. We will return, we will return to part of technology from China, where labour is used, where it is a waste of ecological projects, and it will return to Slovenia. Our future will be on craftsmen, in top-notch craftsmanship. Today I have listened to your debates, which you advocate, such as debates, the future will be in social science. Well, people of God, do you have any contact with reality?Oh, my God! Not to underestimate the social skills, but do you realize that we have 18% of our technical staff in colleges! In Austria, a study was carried out saying that 80% of the population that is able to work does not need academic education. And they have products of high added value. But the 20% that the country gives them this opportunity is top-notch. And we sent people with manual advantages to high school today. And here, too, the Chamber of Commerce in the framework of the criticism of the school system, which for me is that basic generator of structural unemployment and the basic generator of all the problems of our society, has never responded, has not responded. Here the school minister fights to put people with twins from elementary school to high school, and then they don't make these high schools or make them because they look through their fingers and they burn up in college. People are different. And this is where the Chamber of Commerce didn't do its job. Today we spoke, say Mr. Meh had some solid thoughts, but look, here part of the Members confirmed his guarantee bill TES 6. See how many craft families work in the TES 6 project. We have just received information that some of our entrepreneurs may be third subcontractors of Polish and Croatian companies working on the TES6 project. We have a billion-dollar investment, but our people are on the stock exchange. Is that normal, people of God? Is that normal? This is a debate under the crafts law. The continuation of this story, which follows, is a mistrust given by those members to the leadership or the entire institution of the Chamber of Commerce, we must respect, no other manners, no matter how we turn. This is also an interest association in a legal sense, in the legality that we have reduced. As we have also heard about the legality of the debate today, see, Mr Meh says that the will of the people on the street must be listened to. These numbers aren't normal. We have over a million electoral beneficiaries, 20,000 people on the streets, let's say 30,000 strikes. Is this number 30,000 the great majority? They don't hold that number. They do not hold such comparisons in debates and somehow appeal to others that these are not debates that would go into a productive thought or some productive conclusion. Regarding legality, Mr Meh mentioned the anti-corruption commission, somehow pointing to the Prime Minister with his finger. Look, we all came to this National Assembly on the basis of some will of the people. As far as I can tell. Me with 3,000 and a few votes, my fellow 800s, some with 5,000 votes, whatever we're in some electoral system, we've come in here. On the one hand, some people are now saying that you are violating some principle of democracy. You say 20,000 people should change the electoral role of a million people. On the other hand, you explain the legality, although we are all aware that it has the highest legitimacy, unfortunately, under the law of the Ombudsman, we accept it by a two-thirds majority. But no one has accepted the members of the anti-corruption commission. Of us who have the highest legitimacy, the direct authority of the people we exercise here in the National Assembly has never been confirmed by the members of the anti-corruption commission you are interpreting today. The former president of the state remembered them, one, two, three, you're great, one then resigned, he said, with these two I can't play, and they just took their place. And today, please do not explain, because this does not contain any real explanation or any higher explanation that the National Assembly should have. It bothers me. I don't mind if some of you are left-handed. And we're on the right hand side. I'm the only one who doesn't know why I'm on the right-hand side, so why do we support school lunches? Actually, we're left-handed, actually, I'm in a left-wing party. I have to go over to your side. And I guess I was wrong. I can end this thought somehow. See, today we must support the will of the members of the Chamber of Commerce, however you look, however you may fear, because they will eventually decide whether the Chamber of Commerce will remain as such or not. That's the point. We don't have to worry about that. The will of the members will be the one to decide. The management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the officials will demonstrate by their good and excellent work in the future that they can do more, that they will give greater support to these smallest craftsmen and that they will remain in the Chamber of Commerce. These are pure democratic principles and we must now implement them. As a result, this law is essentially written very logically and there are no uncertainties. I'd kind of end up with that. Maybe I gave someone else a thought that he could continue, maybe I made a mistake in some kind of discussion about a colleague. But somehow a major conclusion to this craftsmanship law had to take place in the sphere of all these matters concerning the democraticity of procedures in the country or in the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, will you discuss this article? You're checking in. Anyone else for an application to this article? No, no, no. Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I also certainly believe that the trade law must be harmonised or supplemented and amended to protect the reputation and interest of the craftsman. Today's debate has also been very interesting to me personally, because, as some of our colleagues have pointed out today, I myself have attended very many meetings and general meetings of craftsmen in the area of the White Land and Dolenjska in the last 15 years. And again and again, craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs, i.e. members of the Chambers, have stressed how often they are faced with unconformity or irregular legislation and how they, as employers themselves or some of the employees of the month-to-month, provide the necessary resources for the normal operation and performance of their activities. However, when a question arose concerning the importance of the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry, it was usually the opinion in the direction of supporting the functioning of the Chamber. It is true that the referendum voted has brought craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs, members of the Chamber and also small businesses on the other side, to a second decision, probably because of the economic and financial crisis, to look at the functioning of this Chamber differently. Some have also led to certain findings and difficulties in connection with the work of the chamber itself. Let me read one of the thoughts that we Members received, and I received it myself from the Metlik Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry: "The Chamber of Commerce was established to protect the reputation and profession of the craftsman. That's a very vague idea now. Our regulations say nothing about the unfaithful, the unethical, the dishonest, and how to deal with them. It must be very simple — what about practice? In the current system and the current mode of work, organisational and substantive, it is not possible to offer a better solution because we are always hurting the interest of an interest group that has the greatest benefit at a given time from such a way of working. The amount of money collected, the membership is still so large that it allows in the current organisational form a very non-transparent and wasteful way of operating the system of individuals and groups. The vast majority of tradesmen who regularly pay their obligations have never sought a return service because they do not actually need it in the form offered. In today's good information technology, the same or almost equal service is an opportunity to get anywhere cheaper. The public image of craftsmanship is very poor. With anomalies we don't know, we don't want, we close our eyes in front of them, we just make it worse. The craftsman is very passive in the system of social decision-making. Many times as an interlocutor a craftsman is undesirable, public authority of fog to justify something..." If I were to continue and read on, this is the view of one of the smaller chambers. It is true that the area of Pocolpja, that is, the White Lands, as a demographically threatened area, is facing a very high level of unemployment and also with difficulties. And that is why the conclusion and proposal of the craftsmen from this area is in this direction, that it also gives some quaint thinking here, which goes in a different direction than in the proposal of the amendments and also in the law itself. Personally, I believe that this law is also by all members and members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, both mothers and 62 daughters, which is the regional chambers of crafts and crafts. Together we can find that in some ways the craftsmen or, as colleague Gaspar Gaspar Mišič pointed out, this is a specific issue in the financing of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. There is no funding like some others from the state-funded chambers by the state budget. And that's the problem, and there is a real burden on members and members, tradesmen, independent entrepreneurs, small businesses at a given time. That is also why I think it would be right for us to complete this matter, to agree, and that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia itself, together with the members and members, should propose that, together, within the competent ministries or ministries concerned, the matter is still being addressed and seen. Whether it will go into the system, as the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce today has, when it comes to funding by the state, or what it has, for example, someone mentioned earlier the Medical Chamber, and I would also say the Slovenian Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, which also has funding from the country. Here are a number of questions that arise to us. That is why this debate between us at times also acted offensively to each other, but everyone was in some way right, depending on where we came from. If we come from a centre where the regional craftsroom is large, with many successful craftsmen, the image is completely different, there are more resources, the operation is easier. If we come from an area that is less developed, problems are greater and this is different. In connection with the ownership of crafts houses, I also remember looking at my husband's family, which is a craftsman's family, that in history craftsmen built their own craftsmen's homes by themselves. And today, the successors of these craft families are also wondering in this connection, and I believe that in the draft law it is appropriate to arrange for this ownership to then be extinguished in the event that a separate regional trade-business chamber in a certain place would be extinguished, so that this ownership would then be transferred to the local community, but to be used strictly for the purposes of craft and entrepreneurship, which I believe is an appropriate and appropriate proposal. with which the members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also agree. So we cannot say that the law is not well prepared, but we cannot say that it is to such an extent that it is fully, as we say, b.p. and that we can agree. I believe that here the Chamber of Commerce and Business and Members and members have not yet said the last word, but perhaps also at the level of the State of Trade and Entrepreneurship in this respect, as far as the financing of this Chamber is concerned, it would be worth considering and complementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this three-way? If not, we are moving on to Article 23 and to the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it here? I don't see any applications, so we're closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on infringements. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to a representative of the Government, who is obviously not yet with us or has just entered the Chamber. We will give Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar half a minute's time to come up with a pay phone and present a supplementary explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u62	Dear Members, a nice greeting! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences before you, is pursuing two essential objectives. On the one hand, it wants to simplify procedures in criminal matters with a proposal, and in particular to introduce a more pronounced principle of economics. On the other hand, the proposal itself introduces a transfer of the acquis of the European Union into our legislation. In doing so, I would like to point out that the draft law before you is the result of the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group, which builds up the existing system of criminal law, refines and also reshapes certain existing solutions or adapts them to new knowledge and defines them more precisely. How will these legislative objectives be achieved? In particular, amendments and additions relating, on the one hand, to the work of criminal authorities. In this regard, I would like to stress that it is more clear that offences are of minor importance. This will facilitate decision-making in the context of a statement of warning sanctions. It also introduces a single payment order that allows for faster decision-making and, as I would like to emphasise, the rights of the offender to a declaration remain at the current level. The provisions relating to the notification of an offence in the field of stopping and parking of vehicles shall also be supplemented by allowing for the immediate payment of a fine without subsequent issuing of a payment order and introducing broader possibilities for a single infringement procedure before a criminal court. Similarly, the amendments allow the Court not to establish, for justified reasons, a removal jail or to suspend its enforcement. In addition, we will get a new chapter, which is chapter 7a of the law governing the procedure in the case of offences committed by offenders with a registered motor vehicle in another Member State of the European Union. What, though, do the proposed amendments to the law on offences bring to citizens? Of course, no one jumps out of joy if he's in the process of wrongdoing, even when he gets a fine. It is therefore necessary to make it all the more necessary to facilitate different things in this regard with regard to other measures. This amendment and the supplement introduces the possibility of paying the costs of the procedure per instalment. The payment of fines and procedural costs to the relevant accounts under technical options is facilitated by non-cash means of payment. In addition, the procedure for a removal prison is excluded in the case of an unpaid fine not exceeding EUR 120, i.e. in the case of minor offences. It also reduces the time at which offenders are cleared of criminal offences committed for road traffic offences from three years to two years and provides for, in particular, a faster treatment of offences identified by technical means. The vote on the committee responsible has shown that the law is well-prepared, and I therefore recommend it to this well-respected assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. Mrs. Eva Irgle as president, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as a parent, has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, said in an additional explanation of the articles that the proposed law seeks to shorten, simplify and simplify criminal proceedings. In particular, it highlighted the following main solutions that the proposal for a law brings. Clearer provisions on the offence of minor importance will facilitate the decision-making of the criminal authorities when giving a warning instead of a repressive measure. The possibility of paying the cost of meals if the payment of the fine is allowed in instalments. It also reduces the time at which infringements are cleared of criminal points pronounced for road traffic offences from three to two years. Ms Špela Maček Gustin, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, said that most of the comments in the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. It reiterated its comment on Article 29, which provides for a transitional regulation of the dosage of the court fee to amend the provisions of the law on judicial fees accordingly. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, reference is made to a future uncertain fact, which is not acceptable in terms of clarity. The representative of the Council of State, Mr Rajko Fajt, said in his presentation of the written opinion that the State Council supported the proposed law while at the same time giving an initiative to adopt two amendments, namely, that the costs of the procedure should include travel and food costs for the perpetrators in performing certain tasks in general favour or in favour of the self-government local community. With regard to the offences in the area of stopping and parking vehicles referred to in Article 14, the Council of State considers that, despite the timely payment of the fine, such offences should be entered in the record of the offence. Mr Milan Petek, representative of the Council of Justice, then said in the debate that the Council of Justice supported the objectives and principles of the proposed novel in principle. It points out, however, that too often the amendment and introduction of only partial solutions does not contribute to the clarity, transparency, systematicity and cohesion of the legal text and thus to the infringement procedure. Infringements are the most widespread offences and the procedure should therefore be clear and comprehensible for everyone to make further changes and amendments to the law should be taken in full on the basis of an in-depth analysis. In the discussion, the Members then welcomed the proposed solutions as they favoured both criminal authorities and all participants in the infringement proceedings. However, they expressed concern about the frequent amendment of this law, which could undermine the principle of legal certainty. The committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups, now it is difficult to say coalitions, but SDS, SLS, DeSUS and New Slovenia. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Government, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! For today's amendment to the Law on Offences, we could say that it is of a technical nature. The solutions it brings are to simplify procedures, to improve the cost-effectiveness of the operations of criminal authorities, to speed up procedures, to complete certain procedural solutions and to remedy the shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the law so far. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 is also transposed into our legal order. Ten. 2011. The new law reduces reprisals in cases where repressive measures are not necessary to ensure safety, especially in road transport. We welcome these solutions in New Slovenia and will also briefly present them in the position. An important novelty brought by the novel under consideration is the greater possibility of giving warning instead of fines and other criminal sanctions in those crimes of minor importance and in those crimes where there are no significant consequences. This provision represents an important burden on criminal authorities, but also an important message to citizens and citizens that criminal authorities are not only perpetrators of repressive measures aimed at filling budgets. Such an impression has often been made by the mandatory imposition of a infringement procedure or the issuing of a payment order to the offender for minimum infringements, in particular road traffic rules, where there have been virtually no harmful consequences. Another important novelty is the shortening of time for erasure of road traffic criminal points, from three to two years. This will significantly reduce the number of offenders who will collect a total of 18 penalty points or more, resulting in the withdrawal of a driving licence. At the same time, the change will constitute an important burden for the courts to continue to ensure that dangerous infringements of road traffic regulations are excluded. The draft law also regulates a different way of implementing the suspended enforcement of the driver's licence and gives the court wider powers to decide when the withdrawal of the driver's licence will actually take place, which was given to him, and not even executed. In doing so, the Court will reconsider all the circumstances and make a forecast of the continuation of the involvement of road traffic violators, then withdraw the decision to enforce the measure or not. The new law also offers the possibility to pay the costs of the procedure by hand. Until now, the provisions of the law have only allowed the interest payment of the fine, but not the costs of the procedure itself. These have often reached or even exceeded the amount of the fine. Due to low incomes, violators were often unable to pay off the costs of the procedure in a single amount, although they did not avoid payment. However, the annual payment of the fine and the costs of the procedure will now make it easier for the violators to fulfil their obligations voluntarily and will significantly reduce the number of forced recovery. Finally, let me point out that I share my view with the Council of Justice that the Offences Act is changing too many times and this is also an obstacle to the effective work of the criminal authorities. It is also true that changes in legislation are almost impossible to avoid due to rapid social, economic and technological changes. However, we advocate that legislation changes in this and other areas only when there are important substantive reasons for such changes. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support this time the amendment of the Law on Offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u68	Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the Chairman of the Committee has already detailed the situation concerning this law, I would only briefly present the position of Positive Slovenia. In the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we also agree with the purpose and objectives of the proposed law, which are in particular to shorten the criminal procedure and to simplify and simplify in the substantive organizational and administrative terms. We also support the possibility of paying the costs of meals in the event that the fine is allowed to be paid on instalments, we support the establishment of a 30-day deadline for initiating the infringement procedure, a shorter period after which the offenders are cleared of the penalty points for road traffic offences, the introduction of a single payment order and the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety. On our part, too, a warning, which we repeatedly repeat, that too often changes in procedural and systemic laws in particular have a very negative impact on legal certainty, because criminal authorities are very difficult to deal with with these changes, especially since they have such a very extensive and imprecise law before them, so we join the Council's warning in this matter. As we say, we will support the proposal of the law, given that the purposes and objectives are meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you again for your word and welcome. Given that my predecessors, as well as myself at the beginning of my presentation of the Committee's position, have explained almost everything that the law brings, I will be brief and I will only point out those points that are of the greatest importance to citizens and citizens. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences. By means of this law, we want to facilitate certain procedures for citizens and citizens, try to shorten them and to simplify them, in a substantive, organisational and administrative sense, in particular in the issue of payment orders and in the determination of the amount of court fees. Among other things, the law transposes into the Slovenian legal order a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety. What's important is the following. The law introduces the possibility of paying the costs of meals for the offence committed. This will undoubtedly make it easier for individuals to pay, even in these difficult times when we are facing and facing a major economic and financial crisis. However, another key issue that is essential for citizens and citizens is to reduce the time after which infringements are erased from three to two years for road traffic offences. The proposed amendment is more favourable for offenders, while reducing the case law in the courts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, as we say, support the Act on Offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u72	Your Honor! In 2003, the Act on Offences, which began to apply on 1 January 2005, was adopted. Since then, it has been updated seven times, most of the time, four times in 2004-2008. Today, we are already considering the eighth amendment of the law, and the proposer is already proposing new novelties, probably in the plurality, because this novelty does not interfere with the system-wide regulation of outdated deadlines and the manner in which sanctions are imposed and administered. These changes, however, indicate that an in-depth assessment of the situation and a broader professional debate will be required, which, of course, we agree with. In view of the fact that the offences are mass offences, as the representative of the Council of Justice has said, often changing the legal provisions does not contribute to the clarity and transparency of the legal text. The representative of the Council of Justice also stressed that a number of novelties had produced the purpose of this law in order to be successful in implementing the 2005 reforms when the law began to be enforced. We need to know that constantly changing the law makes it difficult for those who work with it to work through the application of this law. These are police officers, and not least the citizens and citizens who would have been involved in this part of the law, today were talking about traffic regulations and so on, they had to know well, and in the event of conflicts in some situations they had to be able to respond. Police officers are also in great trouble, as they should have the right legal knowledge to master all this substance of these laws. We will support the amendment of the law because it is noticeable some really good improvements, but we warn the proposer that in the future he does not rush to change this law, to consult the expert and to try to recapture the objectives of the 2005 criminal reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Citizens and citizens face criminal law every day. In the environments where we live and work, we want to have daily and night peace, as part of the traffic, we want to reach the desired goal safely. In general, we want to feel safe, so we expect the competent institutions to consistently implement criminal law. The impact of criminal policy on people's lives is usually more frequent and more direct than other areas of law, and therefore the legal culture of the country is very much reflected in the effectiveness of the implementation of criminal law. Practice shows that the penalty for offences is often more effective than the penalty for the crime committed. The development of law in offences in Slovenia has been quite active since 1945. The latest reform of criminal law was carried out in 2005 when a new law on offences began to apply, which also settled matters in a new comprehensive manner. The aim was to relieve the courts, to achieve a faster handling of cases and to reduce the number of delays, better recovery, more transparent organisation, savings in resources and personnel, to achieve a higher level of social discipline and to respect the rule of law in the final effects. However, the implementation of the Law on Offences has quickly shown that all solutions have not been sufficiently deliberate since the backlogs have been transferred from the district courts to the administrative delinquency authorities. From 2005 until now, however, the law has seen more amendments in the direction of greater simplification of the procedure and better efficiency of the criminal authorities. Statistics show that the aim of the settlement of the courts has been achieved, but for the high cost of burdening administrative delinquency authorities, inspectors, police officers, city officials. The complex legal procedures and extensive administrative tasks have made the criminal authorities significantly less effective in their work. Today's novels bring exactly that. It also relieves criminal authorities, simplifies and shortens criminal proceedings in the substantive, organisational and administrative aspects. We therefore welcome the proposed changes in the Civil Gazette and will also support the amendment. We regret, however, that the applicant failed, together with the criminal authorities and the courts, to find satisfactory solutions to Article 65a concerning the service of judicial decisions in the case of judicial protection. In fact, the criminal authorities find that they are unnecessarily burdened by administrative tasks in the service of judicial decisions and have therefore proposed that if the court changes the decision of the criminal authority, it should only ensure the enforcement of the amended judgment, a mere sentence of the court and decide on the costs of the proceedings. As with the other parliamentary groups, in the end, we should also draw attention to the unhealthy practice of constantly changing legislation that creates impreciseness and reduces both the legality and trust of people. The effectiveness of justice cannot be improved only through the continuous correction of legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we defend the view that all procedures in which the rights and duties of citizens and citizens are decided must be clear, transparent, simple and must be carried out as quickly as possible without undue delay and delay. Procedures must be simplified both for those whose rights and duties are decided on and for those who decide on them. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences contains some significant changes in the speedy conclusion of infringement proceedings, simplification of certain procedures and greater operationality of criminal authorities. Let me continue to make some important changes in our view. We all know too well the cases where he travels the notice of the offence to the person who is supposed to have committed the offence, sometimes even for several months, which is not the most in line with legal certainty. We therefore welcome the change in this area, which provides that the infringement procedure established by technical means and the offender has not been informed of the infringement, cannot be initiated if more than 30 days have elapsed since the date of service of the offence. The second positive amendment is a provision that shortens the time after which the offenders are cleared of the penalty points for road traffic offences from three to two years. This change is not only important due to the reduction of cases in the courts, but is followed by expert analyses that excessive repression of measures and the exacerbation of criminal law do not necessarily lead to improvements in the situation in a particular area, but that it is sometimes quite the opposite. Thirdly, however, we would like to highlight the area of the removal prison. The removal prison is an institution in the Slovenian legal order which has been opening discussions on its constitutional admissibility or compliance with the proportionality test since its enforcement. Whether an appropriate, necessary and proportionate measure is necessary or whether its objective is more important than the human rights to which it affects. Therefore, we are pleased that the amendment to the law on offences brings news that is going in the direction of softening the conditions for its determination, since according to the new court, it will be possible to establish that such circumstances are not appropriate or reasonable to establish a prison. The change to a prison that can be determined by an unpaid fine of more than €120 is also a step in the right, just and humane direction. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences in the Spirit of Shorter and More Effective Offences Procedures and the positive changes that we have highlighted and have already been listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I warmly welcome the distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, an MP and an MP! The amendment of the Law on Offences seeks to shorten, simplify and simplify the criminal procedure in the substantive, organisational and administrative terms, in particular in the area of the issue of payment orders and the determination of the amount of court fees. The proposal for a novelty contains clearer provisions on a minor offence which will facilitate the decision-making of the criminal authorities in the sentence of the notice instead of a repressive measure. One of the provisions that we particularly welcome in the DeSUS Group, and we think is kind to citizens, is the possibility of paying the cost of meals, so payment of the fine in instalments is allowed. The novelty also reduces the time after which the offenders are cleared from three to two years of age for road traffic offences. Infringement authorities are obliged by the novelty to initiate the procedure for those offences where the infringement has been established by technical means and the offender has not been informed of the infringement, no later than 30 days after the offence has been found. This will avoid strange situations from the past, when the notice of the offence and the payment order were issued only after six months or even more. Cases are also known that, due to the upcoming local elections, it has been tactful to issue payment orders, as the competent authorities have decided to issue the tasks only after the final elections so that they do not resent potential voters. And that, according to our assessment, is totally unacceptable. We also welcome the provisions that amend the definition of a worse offence, allowing for a longer period of driving ban or the suspension of the termination of a driver's licence to the offender who commits a more serious offence during the probationary period. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a novelty brings about a simplification of the operations of criminal authorities, a greater cost-effectiveness of procedures and a consequent reduction in the financial burden of the state budget and the budgets of local communities, a faster conclusion of infringement proceedings and a consequent reduction of backlogs. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that changes to criminal law are taking place too often. Almost every year. This is deemed inappropriate by the DeSUS Group because it does not reduce the number of offences, but rather increases the confusion in the work of the criminal authorities and also in the case of potential offenders. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the proposal will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on functionaries in the state authorities. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of State, Mr Mitja Bervar. Here you go, Mr. Bervar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u80	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Romana Tomc! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed amendment to the law governs payment for the performance of the post of Vice-President and members of the Council of State. The Council of State has taken part in the regulation of payments by the Vice-President and members of the Council of State in the Act on Officials of the State and would require an absolute 2/3 majority to amend the Law on the State Council. It should be pointed out that in the past ten years, the State Council has already failed four times to amend the Law on the State Council. The proposed complementary bill, which is before you and prepared by the Committee on Justice, Public Use and Local Self-Government, represents a compromise solution and removes all the concerns expressed in its opinions by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, the proposed solution is also in line with the Court of Auditors’ audit report and the Constitutional Court’s decision, as the legal regime is changing. The adoption of this law should be further reinforced by some of the statements made in his constitutional and legal opinion by Professor Dr. Franc City. The Council of State is a constitutional body, so ensuring adequate payment to its members should not depend on the financial position and professional activity of an individual member, as it is an adequate payment in the public interest. It is more than clear that as soon as possible, any state authority that has deprived it of adequate funding will die. Payment to members is important because the functioning of the representative body is entirely based on the functioning of its members. The Council of State may exercise its powers only through its members, i.e. state councillors, and it is therefore necessary to provide adequate payment to state councilors, which allows them to exercise their functions freely and freely. A member of the Council of State shall be entitled to payment for his or her work, irrespective of the fact that the function is honorable and unprofessional. In analysing the decisions of the Constitutional Court, a constitutional assessment should be considered as a whole and should therefore also take into account other relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court, in particular the decision in which the Constitutional Court established that it needed the National Council of the Professional President and the permanent availability of the President. It follows from these decisions that conditions should be provided for the effective work of the Council of State as a constitutional body. If the President of the National Council is necessarily professional, it is also essential that members have at least a regular payment for their work. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I believe that after 20 years of the existence of the State Council and after five attempts, the time has come for you to provide the State Council with a legal basis for paying state councilors for their work. On behalf of the Council of State and also on my behalf, I thank you for your understanding and support. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The President of the Council of State, Mr Bervar, for further explanation, please. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. Mrs. Eva Irgle as president.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as the parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Officials in State Authorities. Mr Mitja Bervar, President of the Council of State, said in his supplementary explanation of the articles that he wished to regulate the right to payment for the management of the function by means of the proposed law and to reimburse the costs incurred in managing the function for those officials who perform their functions in a non-professional manner, particularly for state councillors. As early as 2002, the Court of Auditors ordered the State Council to initiate procedures for the arrangements for payment of salaries or meetings to its members. In the coming years, the Council of State has repeatedly failed to give a legislative initiative to amend the Law on the State Council, as the adoption of this law requires a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members. In 2012, the Court of Auditors reiterated its call on the Council of State to regulate the area and decided to propose a amendment to the Law on Officials in State Authorities. In this way, the Council of State will be able to exercise its powers, but the applicant is aware that the Act on Officials in State Authorities should be systematically regulated. Ms Nataša Voršič, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, presented her position on the Committee below. She said that the Law-Legal Service had already warned in the previous amendment of the Law on Officials in State Authorities that the whole law should be brought into line with the law in force and the Committee, by its decision, had given the Government the initiative to prepare appropriate and comprehensive legislative changes as soon as possible. A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, said that the Government does not support the proposed law, since it regulates the rights and obligations of officials in the performance of their duties in only one segment. It noted that the Court of Auditors in its audit report had stated that the State Council should regulate the way in which the loss of profits was calculated and proved, as provided for by the Law on the State Council, by means of an internal act which would be the basis for payment and by establishing criteria and criteria for the payment of the compensation. In the debate, the coalition MPs, until then, opposed the proposed law because they considered it to be a partial solution, which is part of the Law on the State Council, but at the same time means unequal payment arrangements with respect to other non-professional officials. The opposition Members, however, considered that the proposed law could be drawn up with the amendment of the Committee in the direction of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service and from the local communities, so that this amendment could only regulate payments to state councilors for the period until the adoption of the system law announced by the Government. Then we had some amendments or two amendments to Article 4 of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, this was adopted and the amendment of Positive Slovenia to Article 1 became irrelevant as a result of the amendment adopted by the Committee. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members, once again a nice greeting! The Ministry of Justice and Public Administration also does not support the amendment of the Law on Officials in State Authorities on the parent committee. Some of these reasons have already been mentioned in the opinions, but I would like to reiterate them. The draft law only partially regulates the rights and obligations of officials in respect of the performance of their duties and also after the termination of their functions. On the basis of the above-mentioned decision of the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has put in place a law that will fully regulate the position of officials and has also included it in the Government's programme for this year. I would also like to point out that the draft law only partially regulates the rights of non-professional officials, referring only to state councilors and non-professional officials of local self-government. However, the bill does not provide for an intervention in a law governing local self-government. In fact, the Law on Local Self-Government in Article 34a already regulates the payment for the function of non-professional officials, both non-professional mayors and municipal councillors. I would also like to point out that the method of regulating payment for the performance of a member of the Council of State does not follow the Court's audit report at the end of last year, 3. 12. 2012 is dated this audit report, in which the Court of Auditors stated that the State Council should regulate the way in which the loss of profits is calculated and proved, as provided for by the Law on the State Council, by means of an internal act which would be the basis for payment, and also by establishing what is important, the criteria and criteria for the payment of compensation. Likewise, in our view, the draft law before you, honourable Members, does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision of 10. 11. In 2011, which stated, inter alia, that the right to compensation for lost earnings does not constitute payment for the work done, which follows from Article 62(1) of the Law on the State Council and also from the contested provision. By the nature of the matter, this right is limited only to the replacement of earnings for those members of the Council of State who would otherwise have been entitled to it on the basis of self-employed persons if they had not performed this function. As a third, we also assess the retroactive application of the provisions of the law that the conditions laid down in Article 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are not fulfilled or there is no public benefit for such an arrangement. In particular, because of the proposal just mentioned, it does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Honorable President of the National Council with a co-worker! In its 2010 report, the Court of Auditors stated that there are no legal bases for the payment of meetings in the Law on the State Council and that, as a result, the Councilors suspended the payment of meetings by decision until appropriate regulation of the sectoral legislation. As can be seen from the bill itself, which we are considering today and which has gone positively through the procedure of the homework body, the aim of this law is to systematically regulate the right to payment for the performance of the functions and to reimburse the costs incurred in the performance of the function by officials who perform their functions in a non-professional manner. Such arrangements are primarily necessary for state councillors, as their current arrangements are inappropriate and, last but not least, I have also mentioned the Court's negative opinion for 2010. At the time of the consideration of the initial proposal of the law we had several questions and concerns in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, the basic proposed system regime was disputed about the issue on which the ombudsmen referred to the novel, as the draft law stated that he focused on the arrangements for payment for the non-professional performance of the function and, in cases, also referred to the officials for whom the proposed novelties were intended to apply, namely the municipal officials and members of the Council, the retroactive effect of the law was also disputed. The original proposal provided in Article 4 that the law shall enter into force the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal and shall apply from the date of the establishment of the fifth term of the Council of State, which shall be retroactively, 12. 12. 2012. So it is so-called legal retroactivity when the law acts backwards and is valid for a period when this bill has not yet been adopted or enforced. Article 155 of the Constitution lays down the conditions for allowable retroactivity, these conditions must be met cumulatively and the applicant must also demonstrate their existence, but in this case the applicant has not done so, in short, given no valid justification for such a provision. I must say that both the concerns which I have raised now have been eliminated during the examination of the home labour body, we have adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2, specifying that the proposal for a law concerns only state councilors or civil servants and that our amendment, which eliminates the retroactive effect of the law, has also been adopted on the committee. If I snuggle before I say how Positive Slovenia will vote. The existing provision of Article 62 of the Law on the State Council, which provides that a member of the State Council shall have the right to compensation for lost earnings for the duration of his or her duties and the right to reimbursement of expenses in respect of the performance of his or her functions, is rather unclear. Not only that, in practice, these provisions are also problematic, because they cause, if I say so, inequality in relation to work. Since the payment is linked to the loss of the income of the Councilman and the amount does not depend on the work carried out by the state councilor in the State Council. In practice, this means that a saint who has EUR 3 000 600 of cadastral income may be a farmer, a lost day will receive only EUR 10 for the session, while a saint who has EUR 750 000 per day will receive EUR 2 000 for the same work. As such arrangements have also been inadequate in the view of Positive Slovenia, we propose to confirm at today's meeting or at the National Assembly the solution by which we eliminate this anomaly, and not least by which we also resolve what the Court of Auditors has pointed out. As we say, in the Group of Positive Slovenia, we will confirm the proposal of the amendment in this corrected form.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u88	President-in-Office, President of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! We do not support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are aware that it is necessary to regulate the right to payment for the performance of the function and the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the performance of the function, in particular by those officials who perform their functions in a non-professional manner, to which the state councilors belong. I will not repeat what my colleagues have already presented before me, the instructions of the Court of Auditors and also the Constitutional Decisions, but we believe and follow the opinion of the Government, which says that the Act on Officials, which was adopted in 1990 and last amended in 2012, should be fully and not only partially, as now with this proposed amendment. The proposed amendment to the law only partially eliminates the shortcomings relating to the content otherwise governed by the Law on the State Council and constitutes an actually unequal payment arrangement with respect to other non-professional officials. As a result of this, the proposed solution will not be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Han on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u90	Dear Vice-President, distinguished President of the Council of State, once again colleagues and colleagues! The novelty of the Law on Officials of the State Administration has been introduced into the legislative procedure by the Council in order to ensure, however, that a system-wide arrangement is governed by the right to payment for the performance of its functions and the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the exercise of this function. In the introduction of the law, the applicant states that this law seeks to establish an adequate basis for a legal, unequivocal, equal and non-discriminatory and transparent solution. Everything's fine and fine. At the time of the review of the proposed amendment of the law, the Social Democrats found that in some ways the proposed changes were not systemic, they were in some way inconsistent and there was disagreement within the law, as well as between the laws on local self-government and the state world. In some ways it was found and written down by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, the matter is to be resolved; if there is a desire and then there is a way to go in the end. Prior to the consideration of the proposal for a new law, the leadership of the State Council with the President-in-Chief presented in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and further explained the reasons for the drafting of this law, as well as their efforts to prepare an appropriate amendment, which would also address all our concerns and concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service. With such a proposed amendment to the Committee, which was forwarded by Mr Brulc, and also explained to the members and members of the Committee on Justice, we wanted the legal text to get as close as possible to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service in some way. We believe that with the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill is adequately prepared and that the systemic concerns referred to in the Law are resolved.-Legal Service. It is therefore arranged for payment, a meeting for the work done by the Council of State, and I recall that the arrangements so far have not been adequate and repeated attempts by several years of the Council of State to resolve this issue have unfortunately been unsuccessful. They have also failed because this requires a two-thirds majority of all Members and Members of the National Assembly. However, I would like to draw attention to the initiative of the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of 7 November. 12. 2012 The Government shall prepare, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to the Act on Officials in State Authorities to bring this law into line with the legal order in force. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law and thus step to the first step towards this law. But we wish the world good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I welcome the President of the State Council! The purpose of the amendments and the addition of the Act on Officials in State Authorities is, in the opinion of the proposaler of the Council of State, to regulate systematically the right to payment for the performance of the function and the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the performance of the functions of state councilors. We note from the Civil Gazette that, under the current regime, it is honorable that the Law on the State Council, which is adopted by a two-thirds majority of all Members, regulates this area systematically and that the compensation for lost earnings is also regulated in Article 62 of this Law, because state councilors perform their functions unprofessionally. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the administrative services of the State Council should only introduce or operationally implement an appropriate system of payment to the Council, as already provided for in the legislation. As early as 2001, the Court of Auditors found that the compensation for the loss of profits was accounted for and paid to the Council in an incorrect manner, the Court of Auditors re-examined the same findings in the audit report issued in December 2012. In the section on the financial implications of the draft law, the applicants stated that the proposed changes would not further burden the state budget and other public funding. The latter suggests that the aim of the applicant is to legalise the practice and method of accounting for meetings carried out in practice for 10 years. According to the National Gazette, we believe that the State Council wants to go around the Law on the State Council and regulate matters in a law that is adopted by the ordinary majority. We cannot agree to this in the National Gazette, but that does not mean that we are not prepared to support any other solutions that are appropriate, fair and, above all, systemic. Members and Members of the National Gazette will not support the amendments now under consideration and the addition of the Law on Officials in the State Authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u94	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Council of State! Today, after barely two months, we are back on the parliamentary benches of the Law on Officials in State Authorities. This time the novel refers to the arrangements for payment to members of the Council of State. The law adopted at the time of Yugoslavia lays down rights for different officials, according to the new members of the Council of State. The basis for payments to members of the National Council would have been more relevant to the Law on the State Council, but this requires two-thirds support and unfortunately, because in the four attempts so far it has not been changed. In December of last year, the Court of Auditors issued a report highlighting the problem of illegal payments to members of the State Council. The current Law on the State Council provides in Article 62 for the compensation of lost earnings for the time of the performance of the functions of the members of the State Council, which the Slovenian People's Party considers to be an inappropriate solution. The bill will result in enormous and unreasonable differences between the saints, as was presented to us on the committee; one would receive 10 euros and the other would receive more than 2,000 euros for the meeting. The amendments adopted on the parent committee shall preclude the validity of the new retroactive regime and thus amend the law, as long as it is adopted, by a new Article 13, to regulate all necessary payments to non-professional officials, but only to members of the State Council. Such a change of the Law on Officials in State Authorities is also favoured in the Slovenian People's Party, but only in the sense of a temporary solution to this problem. In doing so, I would like to point out that we expect the new government to submit within six months at the latest to the National Assembly for adoption a new Law on the State Council, which will take into account both the Court of Auditors' recommendations and the constructive proposals of the Council of State. We also expect the Government, as we have expected in the National Assembly only in this mandate, to point out how many times we have pointed out that all payments to government officials are regulated by one law and one place, regardless of whether they are local or state bodies, and whether they are professional or non-professional officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I welcome Mr Bervar, President of the Council of State, once again a nice greeting from the Secretary of State with a co-worker, a nice greeting to Members and Members of Parliament! The problem of meeting payments to state councilors has been dragging for several years. The Court of Auditors gave a clear and firm negative opinion on the functioning of the Council of State because it did not operate in accordance with the rules. A negative opinion was also expressed for the purpose of paying meetings to state councilors without having a basis for this in the relevant regulations. The Court of Auditors stated that the State Council should regulate the way in which the Council calculated and proved the lost profits of the Council by means of an internal act providing the basis for payment and setting out the criteria and criteria for the payment of such compensation. The position of payment to state councilors was also adopted by the Constitutional Court in its decision. Among other things, it has been stated that members of the Council of State, apart from the professional president, have performed their duties in an honorable manner, i.e. free of charge; that the right to compensation for lost earnings is limited to the replacement of earnings for those members who would otherwise have been entitled to it on the basis of the self-employed conduct of the activities of personal work if they did not perform the functions of a national adviser; that there is no undue distinction between them within the framework of a system based on non-employment or on the honorable performance of the work. Moreover, the fact that the specific amount of compensation for individual members of the State Council is different does not mean that there is a difference between them, as it is precisely because of these actual differences in payments that their legal equality in the system is established because they perform the function free of charge. It also protects them from being deprived of property in order to perform their duties. In the DeSUS Group, we follow the position of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the proposal for a law relating to the payment of meetings to state councils, we will vote at least on our conscience. Let me add also on the non-systematicity of the law under consideration, as the Council of State has done a very elegantly to avoid the introduction of a law governing the rights and obligations of state councils, which is the Law on the Council of State, which requires qualified majority acceptance. The Council of State indicated that it would not obtain a qualified majority, so it incorporated this issue into a law adopted by the general majority. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed to a series of shortcomings and irregularities. We cannot oppose these findings in the DeSUS Group. In its position, the Government also argued against the content of the law, and the DeSUS Group considers these arguments to be valid and reasoned. A negative opinion was also expressed by the Community of Municipalities. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will vote in favour of this law on their own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. And the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the candidates, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Officials in State Authorities has been tabled by the Council of State in the parliamentary procedure. The original purpose of this law was to regulate the payment for functioning in public bodies acting in a non-professional manner. However, after amendments have been tabled and adopted on the home working body, that proposal of the law governs only payment to state councilors for their non-professional performance. That law does not govern the payments of other civil servants. In New Slovenia, we oppose the proposal of this law. The payment of state councilors is a subject matter that falls under another substantive provision, namely the State Council Act, which also regulates the status of state councilors and is adopted by a two-thirds majority. The Law on the State Council in Article 62, paragraph 1, provides that the function of a state councillor shall be honorable and non-professional. The members of the Council of State therefore perform their functions free of charge. Article 62, paragraph 2, regulates the right of state councillors to pay back lost earnings and to reimburse costs. The purpose of the loss of profits compensation is to ensure that the members of the Council of State who carry out the personal work alone do not deteriorate in the performance of their duties. Of course, the status of state councilors is different from those of employed pensioners, private workers, unemployed persons, but their education, experience and ability are also different, not least, the quantity and quality of secular work. Therefore, payments for lost income must also be different. With the existing legislation, all are equally protected from being deprived of property in order to perform the functions of a national councillor. According to New Slovenia, the status of state councillors is properly regulated. Let us also draw attention to the fact that the second paragraph of Article 62 of the Law on the State Council has already been subject to a judgment before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is in judgment of 10. 11. 2011 states that the provision of Article 62(2) of the Law on the State Council is not inconsistent with the Constitution. That provision shall be without prejudice to the principle of equality before the law. In explanation of that judgment, the Constitutional Court did not state any non-compliance which should be corrected. In doing so, I should also point out the opinion of the constitutional expert, Professor Franz Grad, who provides substantively different solutions and arguments for payments for the performance of the functions of the state councilor, but also points out in his opinion that the substantive and nomotechnic regulation of payments for the work of state councilors is part of the Law on the State Council. The amendment of the Law on Officials in State Authorities means that the parent law for which a qualified majority is prescribed is circumvented and that is not supported by the adoption of legislative solutions in New Slovenia. We also do not support the proposal for that law for reasons of non-compliance with the Law on the State Council, Article 62, first paragraph, which remains in force. As has already been said, Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the novels of the Law on Officials in State Authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on criminal procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members with first-signed Janko Webro requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the State Secretary, Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has set two objectives by means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act: for the first time, strengthening the effectiveness of criminal proceedings through the administrative burden of the police, the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts, and for the second time, particularly, strengthening legal certainty by correcting technical or editorial shortcomings in the legal text, correcting inconsistencies in individual procedural institutions, and also with less substantive improvements which have a significant impact on the procedure. While the proposal for the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act does not contain any large-scale systemic changes – i.e., these amendments are envisaged in the context of the preparation of the new Criminal Procedure Act – we are essentially upgrading, completing and reshaping existing solutions or adapting them to existing knowledge of practice, including professions, and some of the starting points of the provisions are more precisely defined. In fact, it is a set of many different changes, which, according to our assessment, are necessary and important. The bill provides for a special speedy treatment of crimes against the economy, taking into account these acts, following the example of the regulation in force in detention cases. It is further envisaged to simplify the conduct of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office when the injured person will press charges against the proposed delict and declare that he does not want to be prosecuted. In easier cases, the police will not be obliged to immediately press charges against the State Prosecutor's Office, but they will have to do so within 30 days, stating the deadline for submitting a report to supplement the complaint. The further solution is that the injured party must, in accordance with the proposed solutions, cover the costs of the criminal procedure when it begins on his proposal if he withdraws his proposal after the main hearing. In this way, the liability of the injured person for his participation in the procedure will be exercised. It would be inappropriate for the Republic of Slovenia to continue to cover these costs. In addition, a confiscation certificate issued by the police to persons for whom the objects are seized in the context of individual investigations shall be deleted. In fact, these things are already listed in the record. In addition, the costs of seizure, seizure, storage, sale and destruction of seized or confiscated items will be included in the costs of the criminal procedure, since they represent, by their nature or content, expenditure arising from the criminal procedure and there is no reason to hide them from the budget in any event. Furthermore, a special time limit for the lodging of the indictment is laid down if it also contains a proposal for the extension of the detention and the detention before the filing of the indictment will no longer be possible to extend. I would also like to point out that the amendments propose three different options for video and audio recording of the main treatments and transmissions, namely direct transmission of information by means of written messages using telecommunications means, video and audio recording without direct transmission, as well as video and audio recording by direct transmission. Given the controversy that has arisen, I would like to stress here that this proposal also contains certain restrictions. Therefore, the direct transfer must not interfere with the procedure, but in particular must not affect the fairness and progress of the procedure, nor may the rights of the parties to the proceedings be violated as a result of the transfer. I would also like to point out that the President of the Senate decides on the prohibition of the direct transmission of information by means of written communications using telecommunications means as well as audio and image recordings. In addition, it is proposed that the classical record be replaced by sound-image recording, in particular reducing the proceedings and burdening the judges. We propose that you support and adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Messengers and Members! The Criminal Procedure Act was last amended in November 2011. The proposal for an Act on Supplements and Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which we are considering today, is not a comprehensive reform, as we would like it to be in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but introduces some substantial positive changes that will allow for a greater expectation of strengthening the criminal procedure and strengthening legal certainty by correcting shortcomings in the legal text and removing some administrative obstacles to the work of police and prosecutors. The draft law before us shows that the comments of the scientific and professional institutions have been taken into account to the extent that they do not compromise the basic purpose of the law and the objectives set by the proposer. However, it is still possible to improve the wording of the law in terms of systemic and nomological harmonisation in the legislative process, and therefore we believe that the rejection of the law would be irresponsible in view of the opposition to the substantive solutions proposed by the law. The bill provides for a special speedy treatment of crimes against economic crime, which cannot be rationally opposed, in particular in view of the situation in which Slovenia is today. In doing so, we hope that it will not only be written down in the law and will also be realized by the courts or law enforcement authorities. We have cases of economic crime that have been going on for years. Years and years! In the National Assembly, for example, we remind ourselves of this, namely, the Clean shovel, Orion, Zbilski Gaj, and in the end some even grow old, like the sateks. The law, as the Secretary of State has already said, introduces the possibility of audio and video recording and transmission of main treatments, as follows: direct transmission of information by means of written messages using telecommunications means, video and audio recording without direct transmission, and video and audio recording by direct transmission. The courts are public authorities and there is no reason for their operation not to be directly exposed to the public, even in those cases which are open to the public or are of interest to the public. The bill repeals the classical memorandum of principal treatment, replaces it with an image recording, allows customers to play and obtain a copy of the footage from the Court's information system. Such a change is urgently necessary in order to accelerate the functioning of judicial proceedings while ensuring that the guarantee of the rights of the parties before the courts will not be reduced. On the basis of this adoption, judicial hearings will thus take place more quickly, without unnecessary breaks due to the court's order of the contents of the minutes. However, sound and graphic records will be authentic and accurate evidence of the developments between court hearings, both in the interests of the accused and the prosecutors, the judges and the public at large. We also support the solution, of course, that the injured party should, in accordance with the proposal, cover the costs of the criminal procedure that started on his proposal, but only if he has withdrawn the proposal after the main hearing. In practice, all too often there are cases where the injured person in the police clearly declares that the act is merely for the sake of facilitating the enforcement of claims. In such cases, the injured person is often not interested in any further prosecution of the crime and later withdraws the prosecution proposal from the State Prosecutor. As a result, the police must do all the crimes related to the crime reported before. Both police and prosecutorial experience have shown a very large number of withdrawals from the victim's proposals in later stages of proceedings. Therefore, handling such matters needlessly burdens the public authorities and, consequently, the budget. The bill facilitates the acquisition of a certificate through diplomatic and consular representations that any natural or legal person is not in criminal proceedings for an offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation. This is possible exceptionally if this is necessary due to the effective or immediate protection of rights or the enforcement of obligations of individuals. A solution is also proposed to establish a limited range of personal data for participants in criminal proceedings which may be processed for the purposes of electronic communications. I'm talking about contact details or e-mail addresses. Of course, there are many other solutions to the law. The financial impact of the proposed law will be positive given that it introduces new costs of criminal proceedings. The costs of criminal proceedings include the costs of seizure, seizure, sale and destruction of seized or confiscated items. In view of everything I have just said, we will support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u104	Your Honor! The Government has tabled in the legislative procedure a new law on criminal proceedings to be dealt with by Members and Members following a reduced procedure. After a preliminary review of the legal matter, we have assessed in the Group of Social Democrats that this novelties must be dealt with on a regular basis. On the initiative of the Head of the Group of Social Democrats, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly supported the proposal for a regular procedure. Why should a proposal for a law be considered on a regular basis? The answer is here. Firstly, because the Government has introduced the uncoordinated text of the law into the legislative procedure with the professional public, or because it has happened again at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration that some articles have been glued or added on the road between the Government and the National Assembly. And also because it is our belief that it is difficult changes and additions. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the professional public should also be defined before the draft law is put into the legislative procedure until the content of those articles which have been incorporated into the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure after the treatment of the professional public. From the comparison of the marriage texts, we are dealing with the seven today. 1. 2013 it is clear that this is a major change. One of these is recorded in Article 2 of the novel. According to the proposal, the Minister of the Interior will have the power to rule on the expulsion of the Attorney General. We believe that this is not good, since it already allows doubts on the objectivity of decision-making at the symbolic level and, on the other hand, it also gives an impression of the undersignment of the Attorney General and thus of the entire prosecution organisation. Important news that has not been identified by the professional public, however, is classified by the Government as a less difficult change – for example, the text of which is said to have been prepared at one of the seaside lawyers’ offices – and these are: the proposal provides for a special speedy treatment of crimes against the economy; three options are proposed for visual and audio recording and transmission of the main proceedings, namely the direct transmission of information by means of written messages using telecommunications means, where the intended tweeting or text is a message; the second, graphic and audio recording without direct transmission and third, visual and audio recording with direct transmission; the classical record of the main treatment is deleted and replaced by sound or visual recording. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that these proposals are harmful for several reasons. The proposed solution makes it possible to negotiate between the participants in the proceedings that are in the courtroom and those who are still waiting for the hearing, and thus the aspect of a fair trial is under question. The same applies to the direct transfer of treatment, on which there is an additional risk that it will become a means of exploiting criminal proceedings in commercial matters. However, visual and audio recording of the hearing may only be appropriate as a supplement to the record of confessions before a court. The question is also raised whether the courts are technically equipped to carry out direct public hearings, if they cannot ensure this, and the equipment will need to be obtained. On the other hand, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the State budget for the implementation of this law. Isn't that weird? Let me remind you that this outgoing government, due to its public financial situation in the country, has abolished the jobs of precisely those public officials who have burdened the judge of administrative affairs in preparation and handling and have contributed significantly to the reduction of judicial backlogs. Will the judges now have to go to the halls and invite the parties to the courtroom? As regards the minutes, it should be said that during the proceedings the judge is also concerned with the cost-effectiveness of the proceedings by recording the main points in the minutes. However, the proposed regulation would burden the courts by copying and reading large-scale content which, in the light of the final decision, have no meaning. And there's one more thing. A lot of footage would be incomprehensible, people talking in the dialect and something else, indistinguishable. How would a judge help himself there? That is why the judiciary has rejected such solutions. Among other changes, two are particularly controversial. The envisaged simplification, which, for reasons of savings, of course, provides for the lodging of a criminal complaint and the immediate withdrawal of the prosecution proposal, will allow for the direct deceiving of other competent authorities and organisations by submitting a document stating that the injured person has reported the offence while at the same time silently preventing the prosecution immediately by withdrawing the proposal for its execution. And, the new regime for the acquisition, processing and storage of DNA data does not even provide a comprehensive knowledge of the rights of persons in relation to their seizure nor does it prevent sufficiently effective transparency or even misuse of data in cases where they are no longer needed or are not at all in the process. In the absence of clear guidance on the legal objectives, and in view of the continued delay in the comprehensive reform of the criminal procedure, which we have been talking about for a long time, we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! The law on criminal proceedings is that guarantee — not that those guilty will be found guilty, but that those who are innocent will not be found guilty. The original version, which we coordinated and introduced to it at the time of the former coalition, was correct and brought only a few very important changes in the direction of rationalisation and the economy of the process. However, after our departure from the coalition, the original version of the changes was followed by amendments that the Civil Gazette cannot agree with and that are opposed by the entire professional public. The original proposal did not include the abolition of the classical record, nor did the proposed options for video and audio recording and transmission of main readings. We are familiar with the opinion of the Council of Justice, which is explicitly unfavorable and draws attention to the harmful consequences, so I will not take this into account. The Council of Justice proposes to delete paragraph 29 of the amendment and paragraph 33 of the amendment. Such reckless interventions in the Criminal Procedure Act also present the following problems in practice. It is known from practice that the aggressive approach of the media to reporting from the main hearings does not contribute to the effectiveness of the court in investigating the actual situation, but rather hampers it more. The fact is that the court already has difficulties in ensuring the presence of witnesses and accused persons in the main proceedings. In the case of public transfers of the main hearings, this problem will only be enhanced, in particular as regards witnesses who do not like to come to court, especially in the case of media-sensitive cases. Witness discomfort is obviously already at the usual public hearing, and in the case of television broadcasts of the main hearings, we fear that the Witnesses will not say as much as they were willing to say by then. At the same time, according to our assessment, the approach of the parties to the trial will change significantly in this direction, in order for the parties to act for the media instead of dealing with substantive and relative issues of the procedure. The trial will in fact become a reality show and a pianist fight for the public instead of seriously dealing with the problems that the individual case brings. We also believe that the judiciary, through public broadcasts, will lose some of the dignity that the opposite of citizens has managed to maintain so far, because the public already does not understand the specific technical legal complications that will now only be enhanced on television and have a potentially negative reaction in the lay public, which often completely misinterprets things. At the same time, we believe that the constitutional guarantee for a public trial under Article 24 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is adequately guaranteed by existing regulation under the Criminal Procedure Act. However, from an expert or evidentiary point of view, it is particularly problematic to implement Article 270 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which allows witnesses to be heard by themselves and without the presence of other witnesses, when the main proceedings can be followed by all possible technical means and even in direct television. In the case of public transfers of the main proceedings, the provision of the law will make no sense or will not be in force at all. If the witness invited to the court can, even on his way to the court, for example through the iPad, monitor the main proceedings, she will know exactly what the witness told her, what the court and the parties were like and what she can expect in general at her hearing in court, which is legal and evidentiaryly inadmissible. The way in which the parties assume that they only have copies of audio and video footage from the Court's information system makes it completely impossible for the parties to do any effective work of both the defence and the prosecution or their preparation for the main hearing. We do not know an arrangement where the proceedings would not have been recorded on paper in writing. The written record is necessary in order for the parties to be able to monitor its course effectively during the hearing itself, in particular the hearings of the witnesses at the main hearing, both in terms of what the witness may have said in the previous proceedings as well as in relation to the statements of the other witnesses. It is not possible to imagine such a thing if you only have a sound or visual recording of a previous debate that you cannot broadcast during the discussion without interfering with the other participants in the process. The Court also considers that a lawyer or a prosecutor would have at his disposal an appropriate technical remedy, such as a computer that could transmit a video of the previous hearing for the purposes of the current situation at the hearing. It is impossible to imagine how, for example, five different lawyers who advocate five different defendants, in respect of whom the testimony of witnesses who confess at that time may be relevant in completely different segments, in order, for example, to compare the testimony of these witnesses with any of the witnesses who have been interviewed, or the experts, or the accused, at the same time to review the audio recordings of the hearings of the previous debates without causing a lot of interference with each other, and all together the prosecutor, the witness, the Chamber of Justice. Not to mention that there is often no room in the courtroom for normal work or for three lawyers. It will also be totally impossible to review the file and prepare for the debate, which will be inappropriately longer and more complicated only for reasons that the entire discussion will need to be listened to, so that you may find one relevant information that you need for the next discussion. For this reason, the record in the form of a sound or video record may never replace the record on paper which allows a rapid and effective review of the past event. Similarly, in such a situation, we do not know how to represent the works of the High Court and the Supreme Court, or with certainty, that the decision-making time of all these courts will be substantially extended as a result of the minutes, which would only exist as sound or graphic recordings, since judges who were not present and did not monitor the proceedings at the first stage, if they wish to act carefully, will have to listen to all the recordings of hearings and hearings, which will take them enormous amounts of time, taking into account that, for example, in more complex criminal cases, they will often last more than 8 hours, but also 15, 20, which also means a total of up to 160 hours of recordings, which means that more than 6 full working days will be spent by higher and supreme judges only to listen to the recordings of the main hearings. Sound and imaging may have helped, but they cannot be the only record they can use. It is clear from everything that although the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette is not completely unfavorable, it will support a whole range of good changes, but will not support the exposed solutions presented by the 29th and 33rd articles of the proposed amendment of the CAP-L. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, everyone, again. Today we will have a general debate on the text of the Amendment and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. At first glance, you will find that this is not the case. According to the proposaler, most proposed solutions are of editorial nature and do not constitute essential substantive interventions in the current law. The proposed amendments aim at enhancing the effectiveness of the criminal procedure with the administrative burden of police, the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts. Legal certainty should also be strengthened by addressing inconsistencies in individual procedural institutes. In the main part of what is proposed in this novel, we support and welcome the DeSUS Group. These are, of course, changes that allow for the swift treatment of crimes against the economy, the imposition of the costs of proceedings against the injured person, if they withdraw the motion for prosecution itself, the elimination of administrative obstacles that essentially constitute duplication of work, the unnecessary burden of police officers and the extension of proceedings, the ease of obtaining confirmation that the person is not in criminal proceedings for the offence of criminal offence, which is pursued by official duties through diplomatic consular offices, the possibility of proposing a criminal order procedure in the event of an expected property claim, the restriction of the removal of the oral servant's removal from cases where it is inevitably necessary to investigate the perpetrator of a criminal offence so as not to hide or escape, to detect and protect the traces of a criminal offence, and so on, as stated in Article 148 of the Act. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that an effective criminal procedure is one of the grounds that it also adheres to the rule of law. In order to be effective in this light, all actors involved in prosecution and trial and through the constructive cooperation of experts should be included in the drafting of the sectoral legislation, and solutions should be found which would constitute neutrality, justice, the protection of human dignity, speed, thoroughness and transparency of all stages in criminal proceedings. In view of the way in which the content of this novel has been formulated, we cannot be certain to say that the whole content of this novel has been created with at least knowledge, if not already in line with the profession. According to our assessment, such an important issue as the abolition of the classical written record and the introduction of the possibility of recording and direct transmission of the main hearings should also be made clear by the profession. I would not now discuss this matter here, but I think that Mr Braniselj, on behalf of the Group of Citizens' List, has discussed this issue thoroughly and presented the problems that will arise in this regard. I am certainly joining his views on this matter. The amendment, which had previously been harmonised with the expert, was subsequently supplemented at the meeting itself by the above-mentioned provisions. Of course, the profession, at least the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court, are opposed to these two subsequent cases. In the DeSUS Group, by their argument, why it is not good to remove the classical record and why it is bad or dangerous for the direct public to bring the case before the court, we agree. Since it is a general debate on the law that ends by voting on whether the law is suitable for further consideration, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is right that we do not conclude the procedure for the examination of the law today, but that, through the modification of the text in the next stages of the legislative procedure, what may be disputed, inappropriate and risky from the point of view of the work of the judges and other judicial staff and the protection of all the parties to the proceedings, we either conclude if possible, or we withdraw from the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Criminal Procedure Act. We therefore agree in the DeSUS Group that the law is going to be considered further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again a nice greeting to all present! The Law on Criminal Procedure, which we have before us today, introduces only some technical solutions, as proposed by the proposer, in order to achieve greater efficiency in criminal proceedings and to address editorial shortcomings in the inadequacy of the current law. These cosmetic adjustments, however, can ensure the internal consistency of existing legislation. In New Slovenia, we are not inclined to constantly amend legislation, in particular because of minor amendments to laws. In this way, it is even more difficult to enforce laws than it is to remove obstacles. In the opinion of New Slovenia, all the labour and efficiency indicators in the courts require a completely new basis for procedural legislation in the criminal field. We advocate the introduction of a transfer of the judicial investigation from the courts to the State Prosecutor's Office. This will not only bring about the burden of the courts, but also the elimination of unnecessary duplication of the implementation of the evidence in the trial itself — once in the investigation and twice in the main proceedings — and consequently a faster and cheaper trial. Currently, media reflections, such as the Balkan Warrior, require specific legislative solutions regarding the recognition of evidence collected in foreign countries, otherwise the reference of our courts to high proven standards for the protection of the rights of defendants, which, by the way, is higher than in the countries of developed democracy, will be put into opposition and we will become a haven for criminals and criminal associations. New legislative solutions will also be needed in the area of measures to ensure the presence of accused persons in criminal proceedings. Above all, new solutions require reasons for detention, particularly for worse crimes. In addition, a number of other legislative solutions will be needed to speed up criminal proceedings, so that they do not take years and years and eventually end with the cessation of the procedure due to outdatedness. We expected such new criminal procedural legislation to be introduced into the parliamentary procedure in the first year of the government, but the preparation of new legislation in this area, as we are aware, has hardly begun well. In the meantime, there has been a political crisis and with it, probably, also a stalemate in judicial reform. It is clear that existing criminal procedural legislation will remain in force for some time. In view of this, we consider it reasonable to adopt certain solutions that eliminate inconsistencies within the law itself. The bill also contains some solutions to increase the cost-effectiveness and speed of procedures, which introduces sound and graphic recording of the main proceedings. We welcome this idea, as it will certainly contribute to shortening the main proceedings in criminal matters. On the other hand, the current composition of the minutes at the main hearing, which must contain substantial summaries of the defences, confessions and opinions of experts, is mainly a significant waste of time in larger criminal cases. In particular, due to the frequency of comments on the recording of statements by participants which were not properly understood or not properly recorded. We have examined the position of the Supreme Court and also the Council of State, which have expressed concerns about the abolition of the classical record. I also believe that a longer transitional period should be provided for the introduction of this novelty. It is necessary to provide appropriate technical equipment in all courts. In addition, in Novi Slovenija we do not think that the complete abolition of the classical record makes sense. We believe that, in addition to sound and graphic recording, the record in the classical form should still be kept, where the decisions taken in the form of decisions, orders and judgments delivered would be recorded. In this way, it will be possible to provide insight into the decisions taken and, last but not least, to see the participants in the criminal file in the way it has been done so far. During a certain transitional period, audio and video recording should be arranged as an option to be implemented by those courts which have technical and other conditions for this. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, we expect that, in the next step of the procedure, the bill will be duly amended to include some amendments and additions in the direction of a longer transitional period for the introduction of novelties, and in particular in the direction of maintaining the classical record, to which essential decisions will be entered in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar Forgive me, Maša Kociper on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors Positive Slovenia. I got the wrong information. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would therefore like to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, which, unfortunately, we have also witnessed the re-investment of the proposal in a legislative procedure in a manner that is not in any way appropriate. On the website of the Ministry of Justice, the proposer first published a proposal for a law which was given into professional coordination, which dealt with changes that did not have a significant impact on the course of criminal proceedings and were, as appropriate, in line with all relevant scientific and professional public opinion. Following the introduction of this proposal into the legislative procedure, the only two relevant and relevant provisions affecting the criminal procedure have been added at the last moment, and this has a significant impact on the criminal procedure, namely those two provisions which provide for the possibility of audio-image recording and transmission of the main proceedings. It is a matter of so great an intervention in the existing criminal procedure which we know in our country that such an arrangement would certainly require comprehensive and broad professional treatment, which in this case has not been carried out even to a minimum. Let me draw attention to the fact that virtually no country in the world is any longer practicing the imaging and sound recording of the main readings in the way set out in this proposal. Even some federal states in the United States, which had introduced it in this way, have put an end to the many problems that have arisen in practice, possible abuses and problems experienced by judges and other judicial officials in this way, and are no longer used in general. It is not only about putting cameras in the courtroom and starting the recording, but it brings behind it a number of procedural issues related to the procedural management of judicial proceedings, to the record, to the form of this record, to the possibilities and rights of the parties and, of course, to possible abuses, to possible media abuses, to taking things out of the context and so on. If anyone thinks that court hearings are going the way they appear from American films, they're wrong. The reality is very different and, in particular, much less attractive. Thus already, for those who do not know, most of the main hearings in the courts are public and can be attended by anyone, a full-year citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who just comes into the building, takes the time and attends the hearing. Thus, from this point of view, the public already has every opportunity to monitor public hearings. If we are to decide in this country on sound recording and on the transmission of the main hearings, we really need to examine all the above-mentioned matters and also to raise the issue of financial implications. In the way that this is now envisaged in this bill, and even in the way that some representatives of other parliamentary groups suggest in order to maintain the classical record, this would mean a significant increase in the necessary resources for the functioning of the judiciary, which we know is already a major problem. Thus, in the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we supported the basic proposal of the law with those small adjustments, but in the light of these new provisions, which have subsequently come into this law, we do not think are suitable for further consideration and need more coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. Does it have a procedural word? What do you want? Oh, okay. He has a word – I look in my order, because I have some colleagues and colleagues checked out – Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, prepare the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! We have heard presentations from individual parliamentary groups, we see and together we find that the Criminal Procedure Act is the one to be modified. Some things in this proposal, the novelties are certainly welcome and are true and will make the entire criminal procedure more effective and clearer. We also agree with these comments and modifications in Positive Slovenia, and we do not have any comments, because this will make it easier and clearer and faster to manage procedures, including with regard to dealing with economic crimes and so on. However, all the attacks have taken place on those changes that have been introduced into the novel after public consideration, such as changes or modifications that have not been made to the professional and qualified public, and on those changes relating to voice and image recording and handling or monitoring of procedures, the Positive Slovenia also has great comments. If these changes were not introduced throughout the public hearing and the debate in the professional circles, then we would somehow adopt this modification of the whole law, because we consider this to be a stage in going into the entire amendment and amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act. However, we have a great deal of comment here, and this comment is, of course, you can take it, Madam Secretary of State, as we would like to require further consideration of the appropriate amendment of this point, or perhaps the whole deletion of this point, but it is likely that this problem is already somewhat delayed for the public to be addressed and presented to the qualified public. So our support for the Law on Criminal Procedure in Positive Slovenia would be absolutely clear and very clear if, after public consideration, what I was talking about was not introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, get ready, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The rule of law requirement is one of the main requirements, not only to the public, which is dissatisfied with the functioning of the state of Slovenia, but as a task we have also appointed the Social Democrats to strengthen the institutions of the rule of law. Therefore, the fundamental question that comes to my mind is whether the envisaged amendment can ensure an improvement in what the public sees as making access to equal treatment more difficult before the judiciary. This proposal of the amendment shows once again the conflict between the constitutionally separate branches of the authorities, namely the executive branch and the judicial branch of the authorities, since the executive branch of the Authority included comments in the draft amendment, amendments to the law which were not harmonised with the interested and the professional public. The question is what are these subsequent comments or amendments intended for. If I look lazily, the requirement to record a criminal procedure is earlier subject to dramatic and theatricality, and less to a procedure which would affect the quality of the trial. It has already been possible to conclude that the legislation in force does not prevent individuals, different stakeholders of the procedure, from using evasive manoeuvres to delay the procedure. If such shooting practices were introduced, I doubt that this would have an impact on the reduction of procedures. Let us remember what Members and Members think about the difference between closed and public meetings of the National Assembly, and this is not at the same level. How this affects the timing of each agenda item. What I am particularly concerned about in this proposal is whether we will require any amendment to speed up procedures for individual types of prosecution of criminal or criminal offences. If you remember, we say that the family courts should proceed more quickly with the procedures under the priority system. What procedures? Practically every time an individual feels threatened with justice and law, he always expects his turn to come as quickly as possible. However, in the number of cases considered, this may be very difficult because they pile up at each such special point of measure. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. Saving, which has also reached the judicial branch of power, is certainly not disproportionate to what the new law imposes. Obligations, powers, scope, including material requirements are increasing and we are earmarking in the budget for the judiciary less money. Those who are not included in the act of trial were dismissed, but those who are members of the support services that facilitate the judge's functioning. I think that our efforts should be more focused on ensuring good circumstances for ensuring a quality and swift trial than on finding uncoordinated, uncoordinated and fast-track amendments to the laws coming into our procedure. With this, of course, I am merely repeating the repeated dissatisfaction that we are in breach of the basic legal certainty clauses if we are dealing with such procedures that are changing legislation in an inappropriate way, which is also contrary to the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are aware that the problems of our judiciary, its inherent inefficiencies and the consequences of such a public opinion and reality are also the present proposal for the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. The law was prepared by Minister Plicanic and here I have the date that he arrived at the National Assembly on 21 January, so somehow I cannot understand that it is said that the National Gazette here also said that something was introduced after their departure from the coalition. This probably won't hold. To some solutions to this change of law, of course, I have a positive position, and in some cases, some things give me certain doubts as to whether all solutions are okay, especially because I have never been and will not be for any revolutionary solution – anywhere. In fact, I very much agree with the fact that it is decided to deal specifically with crimes against the economy, taking into account the nature and significance of such crimes and the pattern of the regime in force in detention cases – Article 203 of the Criminal Procedure Act states. This is followed by three provisions on audio and video recording of the transmission of main treatments. In these subsequent provisions there is certainly something positive, even a public main consideration can certainly speed up something, since the procedure is certainly subject to greater public scrutiny, as it is true that all treatment is in principle public if there are no specific reasons, minors or other matters which are determined under other laws and articles of this Act to be dealt with in closed proceedings. I'm sure the proposalr had these positive intentions. I suppose that further consideration and procedure of this law, which we know will not be concluded at the next meeting, will bring about the crystallization of what is, in fact, plus, which may also be dangerous, unsuccessful. I think we have plenty of time, so I'm a little surprised by these security guards who, at this stage of the procedure, are being appointed by a group of Members. I am not sure that we will accept the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, allowing further discussion and improvement of the draft law. I'm more afraid there are other reasons here, but that's not clear. That which parties to future coalitions are disturbed by this proposal to deal swiftly with crimes against the economy – economic crime is said to be. Here it could be that some of the parties to the future coalitions are interested in obstructing judicial proceedings, but not in speeding up criminal offences. It seems to me that this will probably be the main reason where you take this reserve so you can resist change and there will be nothing together to show pigeons on the roof: we are, but in this case. Once again, there will be a lot of talk in the public about how the efficiency of the courts needs to be increased, and when the legal bases that would allow it are adopted, one of them will be pushed to the shore, blocked. It is not just an excuse to say that this is already fixed, that it will be a sound-image recording and transmission of the main treatments as nailed. We have enough time to crystallize this in the next stages. If the law falls from further consideration today, then I firmly believe that you are sorry that economic crime could be dealt with faster and that some important people from the future coalition would not be brought to justice at the right time and be condemned. The transmission of main readings – at this point I do not know exactly how access will be possible, and in some ways I am aware that it can have negative consequences. Especially since we are faced, or at least those who have read more about it, we know that the postwar authorities have used to brand innocent victims on mounted processes of public transfers to the markets, to the streets. As far as I know, the Dachav trials were carried over the speakers and the prosecutor shouted about the criminals there, I am not quite sure if the Puchnik process was not publicly tolerated, and that the former Communist regime has instigated the people that they are in that famous style of Christ’s trial — literally: crucify him! Procedures can certainly be misused and have been extensively exploited in this territory under the previous totalitarian system. That is why we owe it to us, and we need to think about every solution in an extraordinary way. But I find today's excuses very easy; as I said before, even for the hair drawn, because you're mistaking the public, as if you already have to make a final decision. We've got plenty of time! I wonder what it will be like to have the same minister sitting in the new government at the justice ministry, Mr Pličanič. And he's gonna start by smashing his solutions in the toilet. There they laugh, perhaps, Mr. Jakič sitting next to the new Justice Minister, I don't know, maybe [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not worried, but I'm seeing grimoires and observations, so we'll see in the end, maybe you're not even the main actors, because back there are the power centers that determine your client a lot. [[...]] [[...]] I am in favour of today's decision that the law goes into further procedure, but that we really think about all solutions qualitatively, with the help of the profession, but I am also pledging to the profession, in order to dig up from the influence or under the pressure of these centres of the power of the financial oligarchy, which has a lot of money and already prevents those who robbed this country in banks, businesses and elsewhere from being punished and brought to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. My word to Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, let the mag be prepared. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! With laws such as those proposed, one always wonders whether there is a meaningful change if the previous amendment was made in 2011 and if the proposer says that there is already a comprehensive change to the whole CAP, which he did, so this was imposed on the Government by a decision of the National Assembly a long time ago. However, it can be concluded from the material, as it is prepared, that the proposaler was also in difficulty with some subsequent proposals, which apparently appeared later, after the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law had already been in the so-called public hearing. In fact, most of what is contained in Articles 29 and 32 and 33 in some parts of these accompanying texts to the law has not been overworked, or one would say that some of these claims have been written in explanation of the effects and consequences of this law, which raise questions about the solutions that are then recorded in these three articles. It is particularly interesting to observe what you have mentioned in international comparisons where you took the French, German, Italian and Croatian case for comparison. I thank my colleague Kociper for adding an American practice that you have not written here; but in any of these cases you have presented you cannot find something that could be based on what you are now proposing with these articles. If we go first to see Article 29, which speaks of direct transmission of hearings. First, the question is what is the justification, why even direct transfers should be made. You're saying it's for the sake of honesty, for the public's sake. Earlier, it had been said that the hearings were already public. So, what is the need for the public to be more involved in monitoring the fair functioning of the courts? In comparisons with the French, German, Italian and Croatian models, there is no talk of direct transmissions, but there is no direct transmission of the speech where you explain this article, Article 29, which states the British case, and in the case of the British case, only the Supreme Prosecutor, from which it is possible to tweet. In short, I have not found any justification for this direct transfer of main treatments in the search for comparisons with other countries here. Maybe some other countries have introduced it, but you didn't put it in writing. As for the replacement of the classical record of the main treatment with the digital record, it is interesting what you wrote in the material, namely the Italian case, where obviously the digital record does not result in greater savings, but because of the digital record, there is also a so-called judicial assistant present there, who is probably a man with a judicial education or a judicial intern. Apparently, the Italians did not intend to save. More! By means of a digital record, they shall ensure that another record is in addition to the written record to verify the accuracy or correctness of what is in the classical record and shall also, within three days of the completion of the examination, write a magnetogram or a record of what is digitally recorded. It is said that in any case they come to a classical record, and this is on a mandatory path. In what you are proposing, a copy of the digital record should only take place on the basis of certain specific requirements. It is also interesting to look at what you say in connection with the financial consequences. Some colleagues have already pointed out that, in all likelihood, this change, in particular of Article 29, Article 32 and Article 33, leads to higher costs. Although you have indicated that the courts are already equipped for sound recording, whether they are equipped for visual monitoring or recording, I do not know of this, probably not yet, and this would likely have some financial implications. But when you talk about the financial consequences of these two problems of direct transmission and the digital record, in fact, you don't actually evaluate financially what surprises me. As has been the practice of my government, we have always had to carefully assess the consequences of every law in the works, and even though the valuation was positive, minus or zero, it was still necessary to evaluate this very precisely financially, so I am surprised that this is no longer in your laws. The most problematic thing is that one part of these proposals does not seem to have been aligned with the professional public. I repeat what my colleagues and colleagues have already said before me, and I am surprised that the proposal for amendment of the law was not in line with the Supreme Court's Criminal Section, was not in line with the Council of Justice, was not in line with the Slovenian Judicial Association, and it is even more surprising if the people working in the first-degree and higher courts find that the implementation of what you are proposing would be very problematic and that it would be very difficult to do so, especially that this does not mean that they would be burdened by non-judicial acts, then I am surprised how you went on with such proposals at all. In short, I doubt that now that the law has already been drafted, it is possible to obtain some new opinion from these professional and scientific institutions that would agree with what you are proposing. I think it would be wise to do what the Ministry of Justice has been obliged to do for some time now, namely to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure in a comprehensive way, but if the purpose of this amendment of the law was to do something urgent, something that was absolutely necessary, editorial nature, and then I suggest that it be said honestly, but not that it should be written first in this proposal of the law that this amendment represents minor changes, and then those who advocate the law here are talking about substantial changes. We are very aware that this is a matter of major changes, in particular in these two parts, which concern the direct transmission of treatments and the digital record of the main treatment, but as preparers or as advocates you need to harmonise whether it is a matter of minor changes or whether it is a matter of substantial changes. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, prepare Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings to all present, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In this proposed amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, alone, it would focus more on the substantive changes that I consider to be important, in particular in reducing the time limits when it comes to dealing with itself, reducing administrative obstacles and generally reducing costs in criminal proceedings. And, of course, it is very important that this novel also contains proposals to improve cooperation between the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as to reduce administration between the two authorities and double-checking the delinquency in the forecasting process. It would therefore focus more on the addition of Articles 4 and 5 of the Criminal Procedure Act, or on the proposals to Article 15 of the novel before us, providing for and determining when it is mandatory to notify the State Prosecutor of the offence and of any other special deadlines and when only with a criminal complaint or a communication. In cases excluded from reporting prior to the filing of a criminal complaint or report, if this is not a more important matter, and in the light of experience, it is also not to be expected that the police would direct some prosecution by the competent state prosecutor's office. In these cases, therefore, it is evident that the so-called potentially minor offence is not necessarily and immediately necessary for the prosecution to be sued. This is new, this is the fourth paragraph added. At the same time, the proposed regulation is flexible and highly operational, allowing for possible opposite balance through the provisions of the State Prosecutor's Regulation, the police and other competent authorities, institutions in the detection and prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, and also in cooperation with specialised and joint investigation teams. A system guard is also established, i.e. a period of 30 days when the police have to notify the state prosecutor, regardless of the success of their police investigation, and then continue to work by law and by regulation. For if the police can't gather all the necessary information within 30 days, they'll send the defendant's complaint to the State Prosecutor's Office. When the police collect all the necessary information on the offence and the perpetrator, they shall submit a report to the State Prosecutor to supplement the criminal charge. This also greatly shortens the process itself, which I think is very fine. That was paragraph four. However, the purpose of the fifth paragraph added to this 147th Article of the Criminal Procedure Act is to improve, as I have already mentioned, the cooperation between the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as to reduce administration between the two authorities or the duplication of tasks in dealing with the proposed delinquency in the forecasting procedure. As a result, both the police and the State Prosecutor's Office will be able to pay more attention to investigating worse crime. In practice, there are often cases where an injured person in the police force makes it clear that the act is announced only by the enforcement of claims for damages. In such cases, the injured person is often of no interest in further prosecution of the crime and later withdraws the prosecution proposal from the State Prosecutor and, consequently, the police must carry out all the offences related to the crime reported before. Indeed, in this case, the police, as the so-called incompetent authority, can only accept a declaration of withdrawal of the prosecution proposal and send it to the competent state prosecutor immediately. At the same time, it shall draw up and transmit a criminal complaint or report summarizing the acts and findings carried out. As I mentioned, both police and prosecutorial experience have shown a very large number of withdrawals from victim proposals in later stages of proceedings. The handling of such matters thus needlessly burdens the public authorities and consequently the budget, and this is therefore very important in removing administrative obstacles and is also very useful in reducing budget costs. Also in the case of an oral complaint against an offence pursued on a proposal for which the injured person declares that he does not wish to be prosecuted, the policeman will draw up a record of the receipt of the complaint, which will also inform the injured person that he is not entitled under Article 60, paragraph 2, and 4, of the Criminal Procedure Act, and in the minutes in which he is to be detected, a lesson will also be given which is now necessary. With regard to the course, I would also like to mention the supplement to Article 24. Since this supplement is based on the objective of taking into account the rule of law in terms of the predictability of the procedure and timely awareness of the consequences of procedural acts requires stricter rules on the payment of costs of criminal proceedings, this necessary addition to the training of the injured person in view of this new solution, according to which the injured person who withdrew the proposal for prosecution after the start of the main proceedings must also bear the costs of the criminal procedure himself. That seems very important to me. I would also like to point out that the same procedure is also in the event that the injured person lodges an indictment for a criminal offence on the phone and later personally at the police station declares that he does not want prosecution for the offence in question, in this case, the policeman will have the opportunity to record on the preliminary official notice of receipt of the complaint a statement by the injured person that he does not wish to prosecute, and notes a lesson on the rights which do not go to him from the second and fourth paragraphs of the 60th articles, which I have also also quoted, in relation to the teaching that he bears the costs of withdrawing the motion for prosecution after the start of the main hearing. I would also like to mention the amendments to Article 19 of this amendment, or the amended Article 162, which regulates the issue of the costs of delayed prosecution, so we now have an institution of delayed persecution. In practice, different interpretations of the provision have emerged and, in view of the purpose of this institution of delayed prosecution, which has so far been for the benefit of the suspect, it is reasonable for the latter to bear his own costs of delayed prosecution. However, since the consent of the injured person is a prerequisite for delaying prosecution, this amendment also allows the suspect to reimburse the injured person. Article 21 also provides for the abolition of a confiscation certificate issued by the police to persons for whom the objects are seized in the context of individual investigations. That document identically duplicates the minutes in the part summarizing the documentation of seized items. Therefore, a reduction in administrative burden has also been achieved here, as this matter is not being duplicated. The fulfilment of the certificate in such a form thus further burdens the police if it were so by re-recording the same data. In order to eliminate administrative burdens, the seizure of items will be documented with only one document. The minutes shall thus be issued to the person in whom the investigation is carried out or investigated or to his representative. If the latter is a lawyer, he may be present in an investigation under the second paragraph of Article of the Criminal Procedure Act. For example, if he is an adult household member, he may be present as an agent if the person whose apartment or space is being searched is not present. Personally, I do not think it is a matter of not knowing what major substantive changes, some of them are editorial in nature, but I believe that changes are those that will substantially eliminate administrative burdens, reduce the deadlines and also burden the budget. That is why I believe that the novel is useful and I support it in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Renato Brunskole. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I will conditionally support the proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act at first reading, which means that we will support the law further if the disputed provisions are removed. It is the provisions of Articles 29 and 33 of the draft law, which we expect to be deleted in the second reading with the amendments. The Government has further amended the draft law when it was introduced into the National Assembly. The proposal was published on the websites of the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and was given to the following scientific and professional institutions: the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia, the Information Officer, the Legal Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian Judicial Society, the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor and the European Faculty of Law in Novi Gorica. Interestingly, following professional coordination in the material that arrived at the National Assembly, it reads: "The observations of these institutions have been partially taken into account." What does Articles 29 and 33 seem to be at issue? There were no provisions on the direct transfer of judicial proceedings, nor on the abolition of written records following the conclusion of professional coordination, although the original proposal was not problematic, since, as some have already pointed out, it was a shortening of the deadline for the removal of administrative barriers. All of this is fine, but when it comes to difficult changes, and the objective pursued by the bill is justified, the way in which the Government and the competent ministry behave in this case is indeed unacceptable and worthy of criticism and comments. It is unacceptable for an expert to harmonise one proposal with the public, and then additional provisions are introduced in a harmonised version, which the professional public has not been informed of at all – paragraphs 29 and 33! In addition to the introduction of a direct transfer of judicial proceedings and the abolition of written records, there is also doubt as to the actual financial effect of the proposed law, which states that the effect will be positive in this case. A positive effect means to save. It is true that most courtrooms are already equipped with recording equipment, but the applicant probably did not even consider that technical processing and execution also require recording techniques, copyists and other support staff. This means different options for visual and audio recording of the main treatments and transmissions of the latter. It is therefore a matter of changing the possibility of public control over the work of the courts, of direct transmission of information by means of written messages using telecommunications means, where the intended tweeting or texting is a message, image and audio recording without direct transmission, and also of video and audio recording by direct transmission. The classical log on the main treatment shall be deleted as the latter will be recorded with the appropriate technical means of sound or sound recording. The parties will be allowed to play and obtain a copy of the footage from the Court's information system and, upon payment of the costs, will also be able to issue a record on the CD. The recordings of the main proceedings will be copied in whole or in part at the reasoned request of the parties or if the President of the Chamber so decides. With regard to this, we can say that our doubts about the financial impact of these additional proposals are justified, as it will be positive to the extent that funds will have to be added. Therefore, I also consider this to be a complete nonsense if I don't say absurd, if we think that, in the new year, in the courts, 250 employees have lost their jobs through the Lukend project. So, I support this proposal for a law, but if the second reading removes the disputed reasoned provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor and, finally, the representative of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps it is too much for some, in addition to the reform of the labour market, which has two laws, to consider and adopt today any other thing that might be necessary. I must say that we expected much more from Mr Pličanič or from the field of justice; we also expected a reform of justice in this area. Unfortunately, such a major project or change as in the Ministry of Labour has not taken place here. Here I must say that a great obstacle was presented to the Minister mainly by his parliamentary group, and several cases were when the laws proposed by Minister Plicanic stopped in the process before they even came to the National Assembly. With regard to the law before us, it certainly brings positive changes. Definitely. Whether these changes are large enough, sufficiently in line with the expectations of the former coalition and also the emerging coalition, is another issue. However, positive changes are brought about by this law and, if so, I would expect that, at this stage of the consideration of the law, when we are talking about general guidelines, the appropriateness of the law to support it and then to add it to those points where most consider that specific additions are necessary. Just by rejecting the law a priori, I do not think it makes sense, not after some of the debates of those who understand themselves much better in this area of justice than others. In my opinion, the law brings certain rationalisations, bringing about changes. Any change that is welcome, however, should be a matter for the duration of the hearing, for the burden of judges or those who are otherwise involved in the proceedings, it seems particularly appropriate that at least these direct administrative tasks be carried out to dissipate the judges. For they are the ones who set the pace in judicial proceedings, they are the ones who call, and they are the ones at which the effectiveness of the judiciary is more or less measured. They're not administrators, they're judges. If the judge deals with the minutes, if the judge is involved in ordering the recorder to write what is the summary of the hearing, then it is a certain waste of time. According to the number of hearings, this waste of time is enormous. If we were to figure out how much judges are spending on these cases, we might find that if we converted this into an effect, that could mean that, I don't know that about 20% of the judge's work is lost at the hearing for these cases. If you convert it into hours, that means, say, 7%, 8% of the judges are only dealing with this net effect -- if you add it up to some amount. I don't think that's what would be productive in this part. I think it makes sense for all these non-essential tasks to be cleaned up in the judiciary so that all these administrative tasks are also cleaned up by education, not only justice, but also by teachers of many unnecessary tasks that are not part of the pedagogical process and so on. Judges should deal with what is directly involved in the proceedings, which improves the effectiveness of their work, which in the end also leads to a reduction of judicial backlogs, because when dealing with the minutes, it does not examine new proposals, does not write down judgments, but deals with an administrative matter. I must say, in some other areas, they want digitisation. I think that justice is not the only branch in this country, the only sector that digitalisation would represent a barrier to it, as I have understood from some debates. Digitalized records also represent some archival material, one way or another, and all modern things everywhere tend to have as many materials and things digitized as possible. I don't know why in this case it would be the judiciary that would be burdensome for him, at least that's how I learned from this record that he sent to the National Assembly of the Council of Justice. I think this fear is completely overkill. And I'm going to touch another area that I think is vital in this part, and this is an area of action against the economy. Here are cases that have the worst consequences for citizens, economic operators, and the country. As a result of lengthy trials, such as economic crime cases, at least one third of the unemployed have arisen on this basis, as these proceedings have run so slowly, have not occurred within a reasonable time frame, there has been no compensation, and many completely innocent economic operators have also failed to do so. I think that we should continue to pay extra attention to this area when we do so, because speed, the efficiency of the rulings in this area depends on a lot more, perhaps more than anyone in this country can imagine. I myself will support this bill or the continuation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Madam Secretary of State Mojci Kucler Dolinar, representative of the Government's proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you very much, Members and Members of Parliament, who have participated in this very substantively rich debate, and I am pleased to see that this bill will pass through this first reading and go forward with the procedure. In fact, that's how I could track you from your position. It is completely understandable and I am pleased that, in general or in most cases, we are assessing that the proposal contains many good solutions that will burden the competent authorities and which define more clearly the individual rights and obligations of all those involved in the criminal procedure. Of course, it is understandable that we have different views on some of the solutions, but if we look a little bit analytically, out of the 54 proposed articles of the law, about four, five related articles have arisen, and I will also answer the questions below, explaining to you why such solutions as we have in the proposal for a law. I would like to start at the end of the debate first. Mrs Brunskole highlighted the Lukend project and the work in this regard. I think that, as with this bill, which is before you today on the table, the Lukenda project has also been one of the key objectives in the area of justice to remove judicial backlogs in order to make the efficiency of the judiciary felt by service users, i.e. citizens, citizens who find themselves in the proceedings themselves. In fact, we will only be able to talk about the rule of law once the participants in the legal proceedings have a sense of legal certainty. For the Lukend project, we need to look a few years ago, and until today, we can assess that he played a decisive role in overcoming the judicial backlog. In 2005, he was prepared by the current Minister of Justice, Professor Dr. Lovro Šturm. In addition to providing spatial conditions for the functioning of the courts, the Lukend project also envisaged the provision and organisation of additional judges and professional staff for the period until the end of 2010. In 2010, the project was found to have been successful and was therefore extended until last year, until the end of 2012. However, as regards employees, it is important and necessary to provide correct data, i.e. although the project has been completed, 67% of the employees of the Lukende project have kept their jobs. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance, when coordinating the 2013 and 2014 budget, provided the courts with EUR 5 million per year, of which EUR 3.4 million per salary and a million and a half, even more, for the costs of judicial proceedings. Thus, the total resources for salaries were sufficient to continue the employment of 440 employees of 660 employees of the Lukend project and it is not appropriate here for any deceiving of how much the employment of those who participated in the Lukend project has been lost. It is true that 200 of them are no longer participating in this project, but 440 are continuing their employment, some even more favourable, their employment has moved from a fixed-term to an indefinite-time relationship in many courts. I am moving on to the issues raised and concerns raised, most of them with regard to the recording of the main hearings and the transmissions. In order to make it easier to understand, including the public accompanying us, it is important to stress that we are on the one hand talking about filming by the media and, on the other hand, recording the main hearings and the transmission by the courts. One thing is certain that any recording under certain conditions by the media is not within the jurisdiction of providing conditions by the courts – I am already continuing here in particular with regard to financial effects. However, I would like to point out that with the possibility of direct transfers of trials and main hearings, the possibilities of public control over the functioning of the courts – not only the supervision of judges, but also a little look at the work of prosecutors and the work of lawyers, and the work of experts and others involved in the proceedings – are on the increase. All of us can read in electronic or printed media a kind of public hearing report, i.e., those journalists who monitor the treatment by printed media can already indicate how and what the witness and other participants have stated in the proceedings. However, we know that technological progress is taking place, and we have therefore assessed that this possibility would also be extended. The proposal for a novelty – which is important to stress and I would like to highlight – also contains restrictions on direct transfers. In fact, the direct transfer, as I have pointed out in the opening presentation of this Act, must not interfere with the course of the proceedings, must not affect the fairness of the procedure, nor may the right of participants in the proceedings be violated as a result of the transfer. And two additional security guards; on the one hand, recording the treatment or individual parts of the hearing is never allowed if the defendant, or his advocate, or the witness, or the experts strongly oppose it. Secondly, this is also in the hands of the President of the Senate, both the prohibition of the direct transmission of information by written communications using telecommunications means as well as audio and video recording and the authorisation for direct transfer shall be decided by the President of the Senate if there are grounds for exclusion of the public or if there is a disturbance in order. So, this is about those concerns that you have expressed in relation to this substantive matter. The issue of costs and technical equipment, technical support, was also raised. I would like to point out that in Slovenia all of the five-fifty courts, i.e. district, district, labour courts, higher, administrative courts, are equipped for sound recording of hearings. Together, there are three hundred and thirty debate halls or debate halls of three hundred and eighty throughout Slovenia. How was the installation of this system? The installation of the system was completed in September 2010, and training was also provided for all users of the system. The system for sound recording complaints and main court hearings is essentially leased by mid-2015 and the funds are provided by the European Structural Funds. Several other questions were raised regarding the financial effects of this law or on the "positive effects" of this law. I've already mentioned some of them in the beginning, but let me do them again. This is mainly the case with provisions that simplify procedures and relieve the competent authorities. This will bring savings mainly to the police, including the State's Attorney's Office. The provision has already been made that if the injured person withdraws the motion for prosecution at the main hearing, he will have to bear the costs of the proceedings so far – this is a matter of burdening the Court's budget. And as has already been said, the e-record, the digital record, the courts are equipped with appropriate devices. Staff and judges are already largely qualified for this purpose and therefore no additional funds or large additional resources will be required for this purpose. As it is said, the transfer of the necessary devices is not a cost of the state or the court, but of the media houses which will potentially be allowed to take this recording, of course if this provision remains within the scope of the bill. You asked yourself about the impact of transferring the main hearing to witnesses who had not yet been heard. One of the circumstances, as already mentioned, under which the President of the Senate will not allow the transfer of the main hearing, is that recording and transmission may interfere with the course of the proceedings or affect the course of the proceedings or its integrity. Therefore, should the President of the Senate assess that the proceedings could have an impact on the witnesses whose hearing is yet to be scheduled under the following orders, it is certain that, in accordance with the proposed amendment to Article 301(3) of the CAP, he will not allow this transfer. Otherwise, two more sentences relating to the audio record instead of the paper record, as we have called it today. This is not a major systemic change, that is, so far there is a basis in the law by which the President of the Senate can decide to take action, and that is what the judges are already doing. However, this is somewhat different in the novel, or if we say the opposite: the claim shall be recorded unless the President of the Senate decides otherwise or on a proposal from the parties that a copy of the minutes or hearing will also be drawn up. To conclude, however, I would stress that all technical support in the courts already exists. Once again, honourable Members, I ask you to support this proposal in this first reading. Above all, you, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, have the opportunity to amend the proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. In this way, I note that you have also received a word from all the reported debaters who wanted to do so. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing yes, that's why I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Each debater shall have five minutes. First up, Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act myself. I will support it because I believe that I belong to an option that has already taken place before the elections and has put into the electoral programme one of the key relations or the key reforms that should come into Slovenia's order, and this is in particular the prosecution of serious economic crimes. See, the Criminal Procedure Act that we have in Slovenia, which is before us, is essentially a mixed criminal procedure. From the history of criminal proceedings, when we speak of the past more than 1000 years, we are talking in the first phase of the so-called acoustic criminal procedure, where, above all, in Roman law, when we speak in the first part of Roman law, in the Code of XII of the CDs through Justinjan Codification, through the glossarys and post-glossors, it has always been believed that the public somehow comes before the Praetor and all these crimes, which have also occurred in Roman law, have been transmitted to the public. See, also this novelty, which has been demonstrated by the development of some society over the last 1000 years, such as the development of some telecommunications or electronic media, is essentially offered in this novel penal code. The second part of developing criminal law or our criminal procedure is the so-called inquisitorial part of the criminal procedure. In our mixed procedure, the Inquisition's criminal offence has in particular transferred the literacy of the criminal procedure or the description in each part of the case. In this case, this novel will once again provide for faster procedures brought about by the development of telecommunications media of so-called tones. Above all, it is important that this novelty is without prejudice to the basic procedural rights of participants in criminal proceedings during the prosecution's phase, during the prosecution's phase. This is the kind of thing that matters in order to support this law, this amendment to the law. See, Slovenia has to conquer itself in a number of ways. In 1991, we conquered and transferred a Yugoslav republic to the country. Now there must be two independent tendencies; the judiciary must be independent and the press must be independent. We have two more independent relations, after these two independences, Slovenia will somehow be able to take sides with the most developed countries, those we talked about in 1991; we have seen Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Scandinavia. The Novel of the Criminal Procedure Act provides for some faster procedures. Today, the Secretary of State also mentioned a very important matter called the Lukenda project. She was introduced by the respected professor Dr. Lovro Šturm after that famous judgment in the Court of Human Rights in the so-called Lukend case, which somehow accelerated judicial proceedings that were abnormally long in Slovenia. I think that the Slovenian system has found this weakness mainly in economic judicial proceedings, that they are abnormally long. I can say that at this point, there is a perspective in which Slovenia could become a state of law. Above all, in the speedy resolution of economic procedures, this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act is welcome: cheap cases, public information about criminal proceedings, especially economic law or economic delicts, which we all accompany. This is what I think is welcome; I think there is some consensus in the National Assembly that you will support. This is what is normal, and what I said in the first part of my discussion, which in this mixed criminal procedure is mixed up because of this acoustic or incriminating procedure with the positional somehow leads to an alternative. We are updating it on the basis of new innovations brought by modern Slovenian or global society in telecommunications innovation, and I think this is a welcome development. By means of minimal means, we shall speed up the criminal procedure by not interfering with the procedural rights of the participants in the criminal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. If my colleague Jerovšek said or understood him to be a conformist, I understood my colleague Beznik that he was a revolutionary in this story. But let me tell him that independence has come for all branches of government at the same time, and that the third branch of power, the right judiciary, was then established, if we are talking about the fourth branch of power, journalism, and not at all, by the policy, to comment on whether journalism is whether the media is independent or not. But let's go back. Today, I read on the website that there was a large-scale action against mafia groups in Italy, 20 people were arrested, including the Spanish and the British, but most importantly that the mafias have seized assets worth 450 million euros today. Of course, this is not a matter of the Criminal Procedure Act, but of the Law on the Seizure of Illegally Acquisition of Unlawful Property, and that is probably what both politics and the public would like to hear more about. Today, the government of Janez Janša has come before us problematicly with two perspectives; the first is that it is again a short process. I don't know why the Criminal Procedure Act - if there is a war anywhere, whether there is a security threat - is a reduced procedure and why it is not a regular procedure - regardless of the minor corrections, which are not so important, smaller corrections are as important as major corrections. Of course, the most problematic is this subsequent addition to this bill, the legal act which has been dealt with by all experts, the public – otherwise I do not understand whether you subsequently gave it, because you thought we would not be careful and after that famous APP – "if it passes through", will be that you would come through this or, in fact, you would not want to make it public because you knew that the public, especially the professional public, was opposed to the possibilities of visual and audio recordings regarding the main treatments and transmission of the latter. I myself object to the direct transmission of public hearings, it seems to me that this public theatre from the courtrooms is not a suitable form of the so-called public work of the judiciary itself. I must also say that the argument put forward by the Secretary of State that the amendment gives both the accused and the defendants, the witnesses and experts the opportunity to express their opposition to the recording, or that the legal provision of this right does not give this possibility to the judges and prosecutors. This is in a way unacceptable, and I think what has been said to me today about the perspective of the presence of witnesses, that in fact the process is legally unacceptable, and in some ways it seems logical to me that what is happening is illogical. Let me conclude by saying that as a citizen or, if you want to, as a politician, but as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia – so I mentioned at the outset this bright Italian case that happened today – that as a citizen I want a fair and efficient trial in criminal proceedings, not a reality show that will be able to watch directly on television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u133	There is no replica in this part of the debate. But the word has magic. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again for your word. Let me get better from before, a very nice greeting from the secretary of state from the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration and a colleague! Once again, a nice hello to you all. I would like to refer to my discussion on costs and the elimination of administrative barriers, in particular with regard to strengthening responsibility for the use of rights in procedures. I am talking about the proposed new Institute for the Prevention of Irregular Burdening of Public Finances by Expulsion Costs, which is the amendment to Article 7. Inadequate burden of public funds not in the hands of the State because it is legally bound by a preliminary proposal of a criminal offender. The aim of this proposed amendment as a new institute is to strengthen the responsibility for the use of rights in procedures, since the injured party requiring prosecution must also be responsible entities, given that the result of prosecution may also be a prison sentence. This seems very important to me. It is envisaged that the injured party shall bear the costs of criminal proceedings if the proposal withdraws after the start of the main proceedings. We have already heard this, but this is a new institution, as I have already mentioned, to prevent inappropriate burdening of public funds with the costs of prosecution. The Criminal Procedure Act clearly defines that the main proceedings shall begin with the presentation of an indictment or an indictment. In this way, the injured person has sufficient time to think carefully about the relevance of insistence on the proposal. At the same time, it is also preventing the injured person from making a proposal because he would fear that later withdrawal will automatically mean that he must bear all the costs himself. Finally, due to a clear determination of the time when the withdrawal of the proposal also entails a cost burden for the injured person, it is also easier to teach the injured person in due time. This amendment in this Article also takes into account the possibility for the injured person to withdraw the proposal, for example by agreeing with the defendant to recover the damage, including the costs. A provision is also provided for, for example, for a case for which the Criminal Procedure Act provides for a negligent presumption of withdrawal after the opening of the main hearing, which is an unjustified omission at the main hearing. In this case, too, the injured person will bear the costs of criminal proceedings. This proposal specifies and wishes to achieve a reduction in costs, i.e. the public financial burden, and I think that this article also contributes to reducing administrative burdens and to reducing the costs of the procedure itself, as well as to reducing the process, so I cannot go beyond the urgency of the matter in the proposed form. I therefore once again support the proposed changes, although some say they are editorial changes, but I think they are also substantive changes, we are only in the first reading and it is worth supporting. In the following discussions, we have an opportunity to complement the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u136	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I had no intention of discussing it, but given the sharing of time, I also decided to add some substantive words to the proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. As the material suggests, most of the proposed changes are more than editorial corrections, and there are some substantive changes. However, I would touch upon the resolution of delays in judicial proceedings or trials and would complement the Secretary of State a little. I have to say, I am really leaning towards keeping more employees in this group that have been making up for backlogs in the judiciary. In fact, I also have some information from the field, and there have been quite a few people in my office who have not received the extension of the contract because they had it for a period of time. There are also some of these, which have already had a fixed-term contract of three times, which means that, under the applicable legislation, these contracts should be converted into contracts for an indefinite period of time. among them are those — when new calls were issued, especially for these administrative workers, strange things were also happening, that some of the proceedings were also violated, and those who were then not selected in this competitive process, although they had been involved in this project for five or even more years, received cancellations without the possibility of a complaint at the first instance body, which means that they only had that last option. Here I would like to point out that it is right for such things to come to the public when the judiciary only violates the relevant or applicable legislation. However, if I touch on the content of this law, where we are talking about graphic and audio recordings of debates, I must say that I personally support such a way of monitoring discussions. Of course, not in those cases where the public has to be excluded, but in most cases I think that this would be the right way, because this would also give our citizens and citizens an insight into the work of the judiciary. Many judges, which may not be dealt with in an corrective manner today, would also gain credibility and respect, as well as confidence in the judiciary itself and the legal system could thus be improved. Why am I saying this? Because I am very much following some countries that have a direct transfer or a possible overview of the discussions via Youtube. I must say that in this way too, citizens and citizens can be further educated in the field of law and the rule of law. However, as far as the end of the classical record is concerned, I personally believe that it would be right if this classical way were maintained. Some of the arguments have already been put forward, so that I further suggest that the applicant consider this option. Of course, on my part, the proposed amendment of the law will receive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you so much for your words, Madam Vice President! Here were quite a few euphoric words made at the expense of how Article 29 or the direct transmission of information from the hearing will help us to better understand the functioning of the courts, the judges and, above all, that we will be able to monitor those procedures which are of particular interest to the public. You mentioned some of the economic procedures and things like that before. However, the Secretary of State has already pointed out very well the continuation of the content of this article, which states that the recording will never be admissible if the accused and his advocate, witnesses or experts expressly oppose it. If we are monitoring today, say, bringing some of these suspects to court from economic or other mafia crime, they are usually covered when they come to court with some hoods or sweaters over their heads so they can't see their face. It is likely that those of us who are most interested in what they have done will make sure that there will be no direct transmission and, above all, those who will be of interest to us will escape, we will say, public control. It is likely, however, that for direct transmission, some people will try to press the courts with the help of the public after, of course, performing a show on such a direct transmission. Another interesting problem we are facing here is this digital record. I don't know why the Government didn't want to either hear or take into account the opinions of the judges who say that they are getting less and less into the sound recording of the main hearings, because the transcript of the audio recording does not only contain the relevant contents of the statements of the persons heard at the main hearing, but this literal transcript of the entire statement contains everything, including the questions raised, and these questions are repeatedly asked because they say that the hearing or the people in the main proceedings are avoiding the right answer to the question, which is all causing the extreme impruciseness of the transcript. With regard to this issue of the inclusion of expert opinions by people, in fact judges, in the first instance and higher courts which will have to implement this law, I am interested in how the government did not want to hear their opinions and did not want to take them into account. Since we have just the opportunity, Mr Vice-President, if you allow, I would ask the representatives of the Government here whether they intend to withdraw the disputed articles, namely the 29th, 32nd and 33rd, on which some parliamentary groups have spoken to vote in favour of this bill if there were no such articles in it. For today we will vote, I do not know what guarantee the Government can give us regarding the withdrawal of these controversial articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. My answer is that, at this point, the representative of the Government is no longer able to give an answer, so that if the procedure for continuation of the hearing is put to the vote, these replies will be in the next stages of the hearing. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u140	We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. 2013 – we decide on the amendment of Article 14 of the Social Democrats' Group. Here I must remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Articles 19 and 34a, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 19 and 34a become irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the parliamentary group, does anyone want to explain their vote? [[Yeah.]] Just a moment, I'm going to open up an application to explain my voice in a personal name. Mr. Franz Jursha, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u141	First of all, thank you for your word, Mr President, my colleagues and colleagues once again. In view of the outcome of the vote in my constituency, when the craftsmen decided to remain in the dictatorship for membership to remain mandatory, I also decided to take this proposal into account when voting, and I will also support the amendments of the SD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you for explaining your voice. I take it we've exhausted all of you who wanted to sign up for the explanation of vote. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 14. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 11 votes against 60. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendment irrelevant to Articles 19 and 34a. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 23. Anybody want to explain their voice? I'm opening the application. First, on behalf of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[Yeah.]] I give the floor to Mrs Plevčak to explain her voice on my behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I supported the previous amendment because I think it is right that our Chamber of Commerce continues to operate as it has done so far. In any way, I support the operation of the Chamber of Commerce, and it works well for us, and I think that these matters need to be carried forward, because craftsmanship is a great promoter of activities, including employment, and gives bread to many individuals who perform trades, as well as to those who work for them. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. That's my personal position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you for explaining your voice. I take it we're done with the explanations of vote. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 51. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the amendment to Article 23 has not been adopted. I note that the second reading amendments have not been adopted, so we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or their name? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 24. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences under the Regular Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative Order or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 86 Members present and 78 votes against 1 Member or Member of Parliament. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Officials in State Authorities under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative Order or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Are we moving on to an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[...]] I open the possibility of applying for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I give the floor first to Mr Branet Golubović No, do you give up? Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Richard Branisl on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u145	Dear colleagues! Audit report on the regularity of the operation of the State Council – negative. The main reason is that, not a year ago, but years ago, they paid off their meetings unjustifiably. Seines outside the prescribed provisions. When someone or someone, the fathers of the 1991 Constitution, placed the State Council in our legal system, things were clear. Article 62 of the Law on the Council of State provides that the functions of a member of the Council of State shall be honorable and shall be performed in a non-professional manner. A member of the State Council shall have the right to compensation for lost earnings for the duration of his or her duties and the right to reimbursement of the costs related to the management of the post — the same system as those of the jurors. What's the problem? The problem is that the legal basis for this implementation has always existed, but it has not been implemented by colleagues in the State Council. There is no need to go through the back door, with a certain nomotechnic circuit, at this moment to legislate meetings that are not foreseen by their home law at all. The second thing, this law, this amendment is opposed by both the Government, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Community of Municipalities, the Association of Municipalities and so on. Everything about the Council of State is regulated in the Constitution, in the Law on the State Council and in the Rules of Procedure. There's not a word in the State Officials Act about state councillors. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if we adopt this law, we will break the law, legalize what the Council of State has done unjustifiably and illegally for years and years, which comes from the audit report. I propose that we reject this law and the Civil Code will also reject this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you. I find that we are exhausted on behalf of the Group of Members. In your own name? I am opening the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. I give my word to Mr. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Again, I wonder what country we live in if the President of the Council of State came and said that the Council of State had placed four times in the procedure of the Law on the State Council from 2002 to 2012, and four times the law had not reached the President of the National Assembly or of the Labour Council, and all the institutions of the system found that the situation was illegal. That's illegal. So for 10 years, the National Assembly has not been able to remove an illegal situation, which I find extremely unacceptable. In the meantime, we even tried to adopt the law and end the State Council, which is also wrong. I believe that the State Council must exist, but like the National Assembly, which, according to comparable neighbouring countries, should be reduced from 90 to 50 Members, the State Council should also reduce from 40 to about 22 and, of course, provide them with a legal basis for work. What we do, though, is that we do our homework, despite being filled with the mouths of legality, ethics, morality, high principles, which are just a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Barbara Squire Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u149	The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has already supported the law on its working body, because we supported it by amending the debate and by correcting or abolishing the anomalies pointed out by counterpart Braniselj. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia objected to the fact that the basic proposal for the law did not clearly define the amendment to the law. When the amendment and I made it clear that it was only for state councillors, this dilemma was eliminated. The law contained retroactivity in the basic proposal, which means that it should come into force in return – that is also what the Members of Positive Slovenia have abolished with the amendment. As for the anomaly that the Court of Auditors also pointed out in the payment of meetings — yes, this anomaly is eliminated by this law, and state councilors have, as Braniselj said, the right to compensation for the performance of their duties. If you now look at the amended bill, this payment or compensation remains; it remains in such a way that it does not cause the inequalities that have been, I will say, after the previous regulation and which it has occurred, which means that two state councillors could receive an unequal payment for the same work done – someone EUR 10 and someone EUR 2 000. This anomaly is abolished by the state councilors by this law, and we therefore support this proposal for a solution also in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you for your explanation. I take it we've exhausted all the explanations for the vote. Even Mr Braniselj wants to speak on his own behalf or I am opening the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We do not eliminate any illegality, we do not eliminate any anomaly! In its acts, the Council of State has a clear basis for payment, but not for earnings, not for its part, but for the compensation of lost earnings, and the compensation for lost earnings is given to each individual, for each day individually, and is reimbursed to the employer. If the Council of State wants to settle the matter as it should, it should come up with a proposal for amendments to the Law on the State Council and then we will discuss it. Once again, there's no need for that. Especially not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you. I find that there are no more speakers to explain the vote. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 39. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Work continues with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to explain their voice? I'm opening up the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote. On behalf of the delegation? First, on behalf of the Group of Members. I give the floor first to Mrs. Kotnik Poropat, please. On behalf of the parliamentary group, perhaps Masha Kociper wants? Yes, he does, on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u153	Your Honor! In Positive Slovenia, we had no difficulty supporting this law in the basic text, as originally published. It was some minor changes that did not have a significant impact on criminal proceedings and that had previously been properly coordinated with all relevant professional public. Unfortunately, as has been pointed out several times today, a number of provisions have been added to the procedure of the National Assembly, which have a significant impact on the course of the criminal procedure and on the work of the courts and relate to the abolition of the classical record of the main proceedings and the provisions relating to sound and visual recording. In Positive Slovenia, we object to this way of working, even though the comments show that the professional public in most cases opposes this measure, but after consultation in the parliamentary group, we have decided that we will be different from colleagues in the past, at this stage we will confirm this law and then we will try to see in a second reading if these comments can be reconciled or, more likely, we will withdraw these proposals and then we will make a final decision in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you for your explanation. The following will explain Mr Richard Braniselj's position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The basic version was also aligned with the National Gazette. These articles are welcome, acceptable, and we would be happy to support them and support them in the future. Of course, there has been a change just before the workers, namely paragraphs 29 and 33, which talk about recordings, minutes and so on. Although we will currently vote in favour of this law being given an opportunity, we will continue to demand that these issues go out and we will not support this law later. All those additional things that are at stake for us and which the professional public is also condemning would constitute a step backwards in the trial, would constitute a standstill in the trial and would also mean that the court loses the dignity that is urgently needed right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc will present his position, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Somewhere on the way from the ministry to parliament, this law has experienced such a squabble that we cannot support it. It's against the rules! Which bureaucrat allows himself to enter such matters into the marriage? I mean the area that talks about recording, tweeting, texting messages. The Judge becomes literally a servant in this courtroom; he will walk by himself in the hallway, invite them into the hall; he will control himself who shoots and how; he will control what the recording will be like. [[...]] Now that it is drawing up a record, it uses the main emphasis that is also useful in the next trial. So this matter can't come into consideration unless it's completely withdrawn, in the whole set. At the same time, the Ministry says that this law does not require any additional budgetary resources. People, dear! Where do we have cameras, video devices, and I don't know what's in the debate halls? It's to be bought, it's to be educated. Who's gonna edit video devices to record what's needed? What are you going to do about those who have speech errors that speak in the dialect? Record Prekmurc, and you will see if you can draw up a record; or one of the indigenous Goricians who speaks in the dialect. These records will be useless, these recordings! We therefore oppose and will not support this bill in this second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you, too, for the position of the Group of Members. She signed up for Marjana Kotnik Poropat in her own name before, and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to explain my vote on this. Indeed, I, too, do not agree with Articles 29 and 33, and I expect the Government to correct the text of this law accordingly. Today I will vote for it not to look like we don't support the old cases, and also because in this Chamber today we have said that we are expecting a correction – we would not now repeat these records, which are here, whose things are not right, certainly this recording and record only in digital form and nothing in writing. Of course I don't agree with that. I will vote in favour, provided that the Government changes and that the public concerned will also know that it can also give its opinion and that these opinions will also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you, too. I take it we've exhausted the explanation for the voice. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 85 Members present and a Member voted 70 to 10 [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for consideration by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 11th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. However, I inform you that in 15 minutes, at 17.55, we will begin the 30th extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Thank you.
