ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Samo Bevk from 11. to 2.30 p.m. and Mr Ivan Simčič from 3 p.m. But I welcome all those present. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Business Act, the insolvency proceedings and the compulsory termination procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Senk Plitchanič, Minister of Justice, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! You have before you a new law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. In short, the ZFPPIPP or even more short-term bankruptcy law. This is an extremely important change that the Slovenian economy urgently needs to address the current negative trends in the footnote in which it is located. This novelty will allow for the restructuring of insolvency companies, speed up procedures within such companies and strengthen the position of their creditors. With this novelty, we will rewind the legal background for over-indebted companies, and for those who have not yet crossed the threshold of insolvency, some solutions will be offered by the law that we are preparing and will be ready in a short time. This is a law bearing the working title of the Systemic Disposal Act. The novelty before you is therefore the first part of the reformed insolvency law and is one of the key reform tools with which the government approaches the problems of the Slovenian economy and I hope it will help to preserve as much of the Slovenian economy as possible. In general, the changes in this novel could be presented as follows. If, in the current regulation, a bankruptcy judge and a bankruptcy administrator, who have – and we will probably all agree to – at least "investment" in these proceedings, will now be those who have the most "investment" in these proceedings, which are creditors, having a significantly stronger position. In doing so, I should stress that the creditors I am talking about are not just banks, which is often mentioned, as is often the case with bankruptcys, including this bankruptcy novel, are talking about trade unions that were afraid that this change would exacerbate the situation of workers – and I should stress in particular that creditors are also workers, not just banks, not even workers, and not only workers, but also the country when it comes to unpaid taxes. Thus, we have different types of creditors, and we strengthen or strengthen the position or authority of all these creditors. If I continue with the substantial innovations brought by the novels of the law that are before you, I can bring them into a few groups. The first group, which I mentioned in the introduction, relates to maintaining healthy cores of the economy. It means better opportunities for efficient restructuring of over-indebted and insolvent companies, from independent entrepreneurs to large companies. Small enterprises will thus be able to simplify the enforcement settlement process, which is one of the important innovations, i.e. a simplified enforcement settlement, can significantly cheaper and faster carry out the financial restructuring process. The creditors of major insolvency companies, however, will be able to convert their claim into equity in the enforcement process without the consent of the owners and thus maintain the ability to continue the business. The second set relates to the prevention of the inappropriate effects of the insolvency representative and the related entities. The powers of the insolvency authorities in the enforcement procedure will be limited. There will also be limited cooperation between the related entities in the Credit Committees, which will prevent decisions that would be contrary to the objectives of this procedure in the enforcement procedure. Trustees and new investors, which will recapitalise the insolvency debtor in the process of enforcement, will be more protected, as they will be able to obtain, as a new shareholder, the entitlement to manage the insolvency debtor's business for the period up to the first assembly following an approved compulsory settlement. In addition, there are two other sets, one relating to the improvement of the situation of creditors and workers, as I mentioned earlier, and the package relating to the enhancement of the efficiency of procedures, which is part of a whole series of solutions. The new law may at first give rise to changes in some articles, but in reality it is a significant shift in thinking. I expect a lot from this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the additional presentation of the law. The law has also treated the Justice Committee as a parent labour force. The presentation of the Committee's report was envisaged to be mag. Branko Grimes, who I don't see in the hall right now. Any of the board members have the authority? Mrs. Jasmina Opec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u4	Good day to you all! At its 11th meeting, on 8 May 2013, the Committee of Justice considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Operations, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, with a proposal to be considered and adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. The bill was published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 23. 4. 2013 At its 51st meeting, on 26.4.2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. In a complementary explanation for the articles, the representative of the proponent, Justice Minister Dr. Senko Pličanič, said that the key purpose of the proposed law is to solve the problem of indebtedness of Slovenian companies or to preserve the healthy cores of companies that could still survive. The changes followed by the novel took place in three sets. First of all, it is to strengthen the position of creditors, since they are often completely in a subordinate position against the bankruptcy manager after the current regulation. The position of creditors is strengthened by the amendment so that the majority of creditors in the creditors' board of creditors can resolve the bankruptcy manager. Strengthening the supervision of the Ministry of Justice over the work of bankruptcy managers and the legalisation of a simplified compulsory settlement for independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises, bringing significantly faster and cheaper financial restructuring for these entities. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, Andrej Kurent and Nataša Voršič, made specific comments to Article 1 of the bill, as it introduces a new article which does not have the nature of the legal norm. With regard to Article 8 which introduces the mediation, it was pointed out that there was no specific justification, which allowed a derogation from the system-wide mediation regime in the home law. In addition, they pointed out the non-constitutional nature of the individual provisions governing the refusal of a license for bankruptcy administrator already due to the course of criminal proceedings, which is justified by a constitutional decision by which the Constitutional Court, in a similar situation, had already repealed the provision of the Notariat Act. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed arrangements for letter meetings of the creditor committee are also lacking. In the context of Article 17, concerns were raised regarding the suspension and resolution of the appointment of managers. The legislative and legal service points out the impreciseness of the legislation in the new chapter, which introduces a process of simplification of the enforcement settlement. With regard to transitional provisions, it was pointed out that there was an irregularity to amend the law on the adoption of this bill. The deadlines set out in the transitional provisions are deemed to be unreasonable in view of the fact that, due to the need for the rapid adoption of the amendment, the law is adopted on an urgent basis. In a presentation of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, State Council representative Bojana Potočan said that the Commission supported the proposed solutions. In particular, she stressed that the Commission was in favour of an arrangement which stipulated that lawyers were also included in the recruitment of bankruptcy managers. Representatives of the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia, representatives of the Association of Insolvent Trustees, the Bar Association of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia, the Notary Chambers of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia expressed support for the proposed amendment. In the debate, MEPs welcomed the proposed law and expressed broad support for it. The unaffiliated Member expressed opposition to the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, as it did not consider it appropriate to adopt laws affecting a number of economic operators. The opposition Members welcomed the proposaler's decision to listen to creditors and suggested that the timetable for individual insolvency proceedings should be reduced and that the Ministry should be more involved in disciplinary proceedings against insolvency administrators. They also proposed deleting the proposed mediation regime in this law, since they believe that mediation is appropriate and sufficiently regulated in the law on alternative dispute resolution and the law on mediation and on civil and commercial matters. The opposition MPs further suggested that it would make sense for lawyers to prohibit the performance of the post of bankruptcy manager, since in practice it is common for lawyers as bankruptcy managers to hire themselves on behalf of the debtor for the provision of legal services. The Committee then adopted the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 13, 19, 29, and did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 8 and 73, nor did it vote on the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 15 and 74, because they had been withdrawn by the proposer at the meeting. The Committee also adopted the following amendments to Articles 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 19, 27, 30, 36, 38, 47, 52, 62, 71, 72, 73 and 75. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The Committee then decided that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would propose to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision to draw up an official consolidated text of the law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jasmine Opec, for presenting the committee report. Here comes a presentation of the views of the delegations. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you, President. Dear Minister! Why we are adopting this amendment to the law by emergency procedure, we are likely to be clear to all of us. The new law, which was prepared even in the time of the Pahor government, was also proposed following an urgent procedure, but it was found that it did not bring any significant news, did not bring what our economy needed at that time, so it was withdrawn at that time. I think it's a third novel now. It is our view that this novelty is, in fact, the optimal, good and result of negotiations, positions, professions, economies and that, in fact, we are all looking forward to it and that it is, in fact, a meaningful and necessary process on the ground. This is a law that is probably one of the most complicated and important laws in this country and the very implementation of this law is difficult, but the preparation and writing of this law, so congratulations to the minister, the team and all those who participated in the drafting of this law. What does this novel bring? What makes it better? It means better possibilities for efficient restructuring of over-indebted and insolvent companies also by converting claims into equity shares without the owners' consent. It means preventing inappropriate links between insolvency and related entities, meaning a better position of creditors, means the possibility of discharge of insolvency administrator by creditors, means a better position of employees, means in fact a greater impact of workers on the conduct of insolvency proceedings, means better efficiency of proceedings, exemption of payment of court fees to the insolvency debtor when he submits actions against those responsible in management. It introduces a Dutch auction system, which means lowering the price, making it more transparent, and we also promise better recovery and fairer auctions and the implementation of a simple enforcement settlement – where there are no speculations – concluded at the notary and without burdening the judicial system. In fact, what is essential in bankruptcy proceedings? It is essential for the success of the procedures to be proposed as soon as the debtor is insolvent or in the long term insolvent, which means that he is more than two months behind in fulfilling 20 % of his obligations or is in debt or that his loss has reached half of the basic capital. As we know, in Slovenian reality, these rules apply only rarely. The capital is largely negative when the application for initiation of the procedure is submitted. This clearly shows that the biggest problem with insolvency proceedings is not in law itself, but in that it is not respected. Such disrespect is not sanctioned. In the domestic sense, when the debtor cannot pay one account within the time limit, this is already an obligation under the law to introduce certain procedures. In fact, with each day of delay, it acts to the detriment of creditors and to the detriment of an over-indebted undertaking, which can always be the possibility of compensatory liability of such an irresponsible administration. The boards and supervisory boards of companies are obliged to monitor the short- and long-term payment capacity at any time and to propose liquidity risk management measures without delay, otherwise they bear a fully criminal and solidarity-based liability for causing damage to creditors. In case-law, compulsory settlement of rareness has been confirmed for a long time and the obligations paid out of certified compulsory settlement are confirmed as soon as they are not exempted. However, there are no exceptions before the rule of abuse of these compulsory settlement of insolvency proceedings. In thought and warning of what it's like to be in control. The company of bankruptcy creditors with Mr. Cloud has made one major breakthrough. They reached the first conviction of the bankruptcy manager and thus decided that we have also obtained some case law in this area and that justice is sufficient. The economy has been waiting a long time for this law to be passed. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette announces its support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. The bankruptcy proceedings are long-term, they start too late. Mortgage payouts only get crumbs, and the workers take it worse. Most absurdly, at the end of bankruptcy procedures, many so-called failed entrepreneurs are richer than ever and free from all obligations towards workers, creditors and countries. We have heard a lot of stories in recent years when bankruptcy managers, for example, sell the company's assets at shamefully low prices, when bankruptcy managers do not know where the company's assets are, when creditors are not allowed to be present when opening offers or when former owners of the property are freely available and are taking advantage of it. One of the biggest problems is that so far bankruptcy managers have had excessive autonomy of decision-making in insolvency proceedings, even against creditors, because their role has been very subordinate, if not even neglected. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that new legislation will at least be more effective in this area, as it brings about a change in future insolvency proceedings under the watchful eye of creditors as some supervisory board of the insolvency administrator. The trustees will now also have the opportunity to replace the manager, which we hope will lead to a first step towards the joint team work of the creditor board and the manager. The objective of both should be to sell the property as best as possible or to maintain a healthy core following a new change in creditors' equity claims. Maintaining a healthy core in our opinion means paying off debts, preserving jobs, references and business. The Slovenian People's Party's Group also supports solutions that go towards a faster and cheaper enforcement of forced settlement, and even the most simplified enforcement settlement for small businesses. Furthermore, we believe that the main problem is not whether the bankruptcy manager is a lawyer or not, but simply the fact that proceedings in cases of insolvency and forced settlement must have clear rules and also clear deadlines in which the bankruptcy manager must carry out the necessary actions. Let this place be independent of this law, but in the spirit of better, better quality proper and fairer effective bankruptcy procedures, I express my expectation of a concrete breakdown in the case of Friends in bankruptcy. You know, a letter on paper doesn't mean anything if there's no real movement in everyday practice and actual actions that the situation changes for the better. We also expect a proposal from the Slovenian People's Party's Group for a Systemic Disposal Act, which is expected to bring about substantial changes in the area of changes in creditors' equity claims. We will support the new so-called bankruptcy law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because it means a long-awaited and needed step forward. However, we expect that the law will be applied in a spirit of righteousness and not, as is often the case in Slovenian custom, in the spirit of my greatest benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I very much welcome Minister Plitsanič with his associate. Messengers and Messengers, and good greetings to you! The novelty of this law is very important, as it will help, on the one hand, to make bankruptcy more effective and, on the other hand, to preserve healthy cores, or already exhausted businesses. We therefore support the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. The fact that businesses are in difficulty to restructure and maintain healthy parts of the company that is in difficulty is now essential in times of economic crisis for maintaining jobs, as the social picture of Slovenia worsens from day to day, or mainly due to bankruptcy procedures in many companies. Maintaining the company's healthy core, which is in difficulty, can ease job losses and thus reduce the rise in the number of unemployed. In doing so, in the DeSUS Group, we hope to raise new economic ideas in these preserved healthy cores, which will undoubtedly lead to renewed growth in the economy and new employment. Given that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, State Defence, Chamber of bankruptcy managers of Slovenia, Association of bankruptcy creditors, Association of Banks and Bank of Slovenia themselves have also participated in the drafting of the bill, we can be confident that the changes and additions now in force in insolvency law will yield positive results. Last but not least, the most important thing is that legislation is based on practice, which is typical of this novel. It is expected that the identification of the insolvency situation in companies, by means of this law, will be faster, which is crucial for further rapid and effective action. It is also expected that the rate of remuneration of creditors will be higher, that public auctioning procedures will be shorter and that there will be significantly fewer bankruptcys. The introduction of a simplified enforcement settlement institution is important, as from now on small and micro-enterprises will be able to solve liquidity problems more quickly and cheaper and achieve business preservation. We also welcome the strengthening of the protection of the creditor and the increased power of the creditor board in the control of the bankruptcy manager. If the latter no longer enjoys the trust of the committee because of his actions, the Committee will be able to discharge him from this function. The law solves another very important situation with regard to the bankruptcy manager, imposing a ban on the bankruptcy manager, in accordance with the Code of Professional Ethics, to provide legal services in the same case. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased with the proposal for a new law because we are convinced that the proposed solutions are a step closer to putting an end to the problems of indebtedness of our companies. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group agree that due to the current state of affairs, the law is adopted in an urgent manner and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The comprehensive reform of insolvency law is one of the important and urgent steps towards a way out of the economic crisis. The amendment of the law in question is certainly a step forward in regulating the area of forced settlement and bankruptcy. Unfortunately, it's a few years late. The majority of bankruptcys have already begun in our country. Nevertheless, we believe that it is better to start reform late than never. We welcome some of the solutions introduced by the amendment of this law in particular in the field of forced settlement procedures. They bring shorter, simpler and cheaper procedures. In doing so, we refer in particular to the procedures for simplifying the compulsory settlement applicable to independent entrepreneurs and micro and small enterprises. An important novelty is also the increase in the powers of the board of directors in the appointment of the insolvency debtor, the possibility of recapitalisation of the insolvency debtor by creditors and the possibility of conversion of claims into equity. However, while maintaining the current concept of bankruptcy procedures, we lack adjustments in the direction of acceleration and also in the valuation of bankruptcy proceedings. At least what the legislator could do would be a provision of time limits for the execution of individual insolvency management tasks, as well as the binding of the insolvency manager's award on the rate and effectiveness of bankruptcy operations, notably the sale of the insolvency debtor's assets. So far, the practice has shown that bankruptcy procedures are carried on unreasonablely long, even after a few years. Insolvent creditors, especially those who were employed in the bankruptcy debtor, remain virtually unpaid. Unfortunately, the novelty of this law does not bring conceptual innovation in the resolution of bankruptcy procedures, but it would actually bring our insolvency legislation closer to the solutions they know in the developed Western countries. What is a rule in Western countries remains with us, unfortunately, despite today's novelty of insolvency law remains an exception. According to our concept, bankruptcy means, as a rule, termination of the company and termination of the employment relationship for employees. The basic objective and purpose of bankruptcy procedures and not only enforcement procedures should be to maintain a healthy core of society, continue business and maintain jobs. In this respect, there is a thorough reflection on who can act as a bankruptcy manager. In the current concept, lawyers and economists are primarily involved in this function. These, of course, ensure that the insolvency proceedings are properly carried out. However, this concept will necessarily have to be replaced and bankruptcy should not mean the cessation of the insolvency debtor. On the contrary, the aim of the bankruptcy procedure must be to preserve the healthy core of society. For this concept, it will be necessary to choose the trust of the bankruptcy managers with knowledge and experience from management or even better, from crisis management. These experts will have to take care of the first claims test as quickly as possible and then, after reviewing the balance sheets, decide if and what part of the activity constitutes a healthy part and continue to produce. Then start immediately with the restructuring of the insolvency debtor. We expect the new government to produce a completely new insolvency law as soon as possible, with solutions comparable to European legislation. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures because we believe it improves existing legislation in this area. However, we expect the Government to draw up a completely new law based on a more modern concept.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you for presenting the position of the New Slovenia Group. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members, Minister! The first effects of the recession began in Slovenia in 2009. According to Ipes, 332 bankruptcy procedures, 82 liquidation procedures and 14 forced settlement procedures were initiated in 2009. The dramatic information that 149 insolvency proceedings, 24 winding-up procedures and 15 forced settlement procedures have only been initiated in the first three months of this year, shows clearly that everything we can do must be done, that these procedures are effective and swift and that creditors, especially creditors, are protected as much as possible, and that everything is done to enable companies with liquidity problems to have other solutions that will not necessarily result in bankruptcy and the loss of existing jobs. In the Parliamentary Group, positive Slovenia, we are convinced that the novel can, together with the law on systemic deleveraging in preparation, stop this trend or even reverse it. The novelty pays particular attention to providing greater opportunities for effective and real financial restructuring of insolvency companies by converting claims or transferring creditors' claims into equity shares and maintaining healthy economies. All this, however, is done by bridging the simplified enforcement settlement for espies and micro-enterprises, which will be concluded outside the Notary, but with the minimum supervision of the Court and the Ministry. As a result, it will lead to a significantly cheaper and faster financial restructuring process for these entities. By extending the Regulation on the increase in the basic capital of the insolvency debtor also through the conversion of claims into equity shares and by supplementing the rules on compulsory settlement. It also improves the position of the creditor committee, which, in addition to extending the right of access to documentation, is given the necessary right urgently to be resolved by a majority of the votes of the creditor committee if there is a lack of confidence in the insolvency administrator’s functioning. In view of the experience of recent years, it has proved necessary to further protect the creditor, in particular the creditor of the insolvent debtor, namely, as a new priority the compensation for unused annual leave, the exemption of the advance payment of the initial costs of insolvency proceedings, and the new reason for the opposition to the conduct of forced settlement. In view of the resounding affairs associated with the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings by bankruptcy managers, the amendment also provides for more effective supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers by the Minister and the strengthening of the posts of managers to suspend the appointment of the manager in new cases. In addition, we propose an amendment on the basis of which the insolvency representative’s position as a lawyer must not represent the same insolvency debtor in the courts and other proceedings conducted in connection with this same bankruptcy procedure. However, the penalty for violating such a provision is the withdrawal of the authorisation to act as a bankruptcy manager. We support the novelty in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia because we are convinced that this novel is a set of all necessary changes to insolvency law. It represents one of the essential reform tools for solving the economic crisis in our country, as it is primarily designed to preserve the healthy cores of the economy and thus to preserve existing jobs. At the same time, the proposed novelty will have positive consequences in the social field, as the protection of creditors, especially creditors of workers, their powers and their rights will be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. As far as this marriage is concerned, which is before us, we will support it in the SDS. We have tabled some amendments, if I may say, with the aim of improving this law, but the adoption or non-admission of these amendments by the coalition is not a condition and our support. We will support the law in any case, because the coalition amendments are also going in a direction that is the right one. In general, I can say that I remember that, in the previous term, we have been doing a lot of work on so-called bankruptcy legislation, even some novels have been adopted, and all of these novels have gone in a completely different direction than Dr. Plitsanič's novel. They even went in this direction to facilitate crime, they could say they supported it, but the National Assembly in its previous composition supported all these decisions and all these proposals by former Minister Zalar. We have tabled amendments on our own many occasions, and we have also had several extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as it was then called. Some of us have pointed out a number of bankruptcy problems. Nothing's wrong with our amendments, it's all going its own way. I can therefore say at this point that the current Minister's proposal is a very important step to be taken in 2009 and not only in 2013. The law goes absolutely in the right direction, protects such workers, speeds up procedures and works a significant shift from that classic Slovenian logic, because the word bankruptcy means shutting down the company and firing workers. The law is taking an important step in that direction so that we can still maintain healthy cores and that the word bankruptcy will not mean the closure of the company and the dismissal of workers, but it will also mean maintaining healthy cores and continuing production, which is extremely important at this point. Although I regret that the Minister has not included in this paper the issue of disciplinary proceedings against bankruptcy managers. We already had a system in this country in which the ministry had the main word, but the former Minister Zalar passed it all on to the Chamber of Fugitive Managers, of course, under the system 'the crow does not rule out the eyes' and the matter is perfectly clear. There's nothing wrong with them judging themselves. Such systems in this country are still very large, but I believe that this will also happen because the Minister predicts further changes or even a new law. That's one thing. At the same time, we need to know that, despite the fact that everyone today, both the opposition and the coalition, is praising this law and I believe that it will also receive almost a hundred percent of Parliament's support, but it is important to note, Mr Minister, that this is a really good step, and yet the affair of Friends in bankruptcy reminds us that we have both a minister and we have a lot of work to do. Much more work, not only with bankruptcy law, but I am deeply confident, so the affair Friends in bankruptcy, you all know what this is about, as the latest events around Tobutov require an intervention where we have not somehow hoped to cut down to date, and this is an intervention in the judicial branch of power. Without prejudice to the judiciary, of course, they know the authorities, in a legal way, and anything not to say crime or anything else we have in the area of bankruptcy will never be stopped. Let me just remind you how in 2008 a judge gave some bankruptcy manager 150 000 euros too much because he made a mistake. He forgot that he had granted the deposit, and then he gave it all back to him, which was also confirmed by the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, and he never returned this bankruptcy award. [[...]] Never. 150 thousand euros. Hence, the crux between this law and the work of justice is still important. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u18	Respected and respected! In economic life, there comes a time when an entrepreneur faces uncertain circumstances and falls into insolvency because of his guilt or without it. The duty of the legal and economic system which wishes to be operational is to establish the conditions for the effective restructuring and extension of such an undertaking, a system whereby it will be clearly established that the economic operator has received a new owner, that the existing owners responsible for the company’s insolvent status are replaced by the new owners, yesterday’s creditors. This is a fundamental idea of a set of legislation that we are beginning to adopt today in the National Assembly. If the law that is before us today were alone and represented the only solutions in this area, the Social Democrats would consider it insufficient, that it is insufficient, that it means a significant shift, but that the integrated solution to the problems that we have in insolvency law cannot only be achieved with it. It is therefore worth recalling once again that the government adopted at the end of April a starting point on the Systemic Debt Act, which together with this law constitutes a serious reform of insolvency law. Social Democrats are pleased that today all political forces in the National Assembly finally recognize the importance of insolvency law and its impact on the success of the deleveraging process of the indebted Slovenian economy. Let us recall, however, that more than a year ago we had a similar law before us, with some similar ones, if not identical solutions, but in this same national assembly we had the destiny to vote on its inadequacy. Nevertheless, we are pleased today that we are in the assessment of one of the key problems of the Slovenian country, which has further exacerbated the problem of over-indebtedness due to inadequate solutions, and that there is clearly a political will to regulate this area decisively. Twenty years of bankruptcy, twenty years of long-term procedures, twenty years of ex-excess cases, which some predecessors have referred to, do not only indicate that the enforcement of legislation was wrong, reckless or even misused, indicates that the system of insolvency proceedings in that country was wrong. Only through this law and the Systemic Longevity Act do we reform the process by ensuring fast and effective protection of creditors, in particular through the conversion of ownership, by replacing owners, will it allow the restructuring of enterprises in a way that will dissipate and thus maintain healthy cores for the preservation of jobs, the continuation of production, the preservation of trademarks, references, patents and thus the preservation of what I consider to be the economic substance of this nation. We have been misinterpreting bankruptcy since 1993 in the country. The bankruptcy procedure is not after the default of the bankruptcy debtor’s termination, the bankruptcy procedure is not just the divestment of the bankruptcy mass and the distribution of the repurchase between the creditors within which, of course, large assets are lost also for the awards of the bankruptcy manager and the various frauds we have unfortunately witnessed in practice. The bankruptcy procedure must be simply to replace the inappropriate owners with the new owners, the creditors of yesterday, and does not necessarily constitute the cessation of the bankruptcy debtor as a legal person. Only after we have finally come to know and put this arrangement into the Slovenian legal order will we be able to be satisfied, as most of us in the National Assembly today have expressed. As a credible step in this direction, we will support the Social Democrats' proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you also for presenting the position of the Group of Social Democrats. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the coalition to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Opening login option. Ms Ljubica Jelusic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues from the Ministry of Justice, respected colleagues and colleagues! I support the amendment to Article 3, but I would like to draw attention to one particular feature of this law that we are dealing with today: it entered into force in October 2008 and has been amended five times since then. Four times successful, so that the changes adopted in the National Assembly were once unsuccessful, as we have already heard today, that was in 2011. And if it succeeds today, it will be a successful fifth. So in five years of law enforcement, five changes could point to several things and two would point out. One is that perhaps at the beginning of the law was written in such a way that it did not cover all the problems envisaged that could affect companies having problems with financial transactions, are insolvent or are in the process of forcible termination. Another explanation can also be found in the fact that it is an area that is changing incredibly rapidly and that we can follow the history of rapid change over the past five years and the incredible ingenuity of bankruptcy owners who are trying with various types of bankruptcy, I can say, even by machinations, to fool legislation and all those who have to conduct bankruptcy procedures on behalf of the law. I think that this addition, or amendment and addition to the law that we now have before us, including the amended Article 3 or the addition of Article 3, is such that it tries to overtake the ingenuity of these owners in bankruptcy and that it tries to offer in particular one group of affected people in bankruptcy, that is, creditors, also more power. Of course, I hope, and I would also like to express my expectation at this point that, however, it will obviously be necessary to cut into another area that concerns the ownership of insolvency owners, so that it would not be possible, if it is clear that they are exhausting their business and that this company is on the way to a forced settlement or termination so that they cannot and should not transfer their ownership to family members or protect it with a debt of land, which is in line with our current legislation, but this is actually one of those grey holes that allow those resourceful owners to overshadow the procedures that we are also trying to somehow prevent or overtake by amending legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you, Dr. Jelusich. I give my word to Mr. Mirko Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u22	Your Honor, good afternoon! This bankruptcy legislation is very difficult, and at least during the preparatory period we have had such material as is earned by the drafters of this law congratulations because we are finally coming to some paths that would be in normal society and are expected and normal in normal society. The position of creditors is strengthened by the law and I would stress that the position of small creditors is strengthened, these are workers. I don't know if there's a case where workers would be paid in these bankruptcy cases. The banks always take all the cream and the rest stay barefoot. Next. The company's healthy cores are being preserved. We have some cases, and in Primorsk, I would mention only two things that are glowing — the MIP and the Primorje, and some other things I could count. If these two companies were saved, not only would they be very useful for the area where they live and work these companies, even for even Slovenia. It is also important that it is possible to resolve the bankruptcy manager in order to be able to be resolved by creditors. Some are literally cemented in this activity, with 10 or more creditors. And then things don't move, because they're not superhumans, that they can do such demanding jobs in so many cases. Small enterprises can also quickly restructure and implement this financial restructuring and relaunch. I must say that any further improvement would be possible, perhaps in the next steps, because in some cases, as has already been said today, it is literally a crime, a play of legislation and the like. Not all, there are many who try to solve the problem, but there are also criminal cases. That is why I think that once it is necessary to make an end, and this legislation is on the way. What has already been said today is, look, there is no clear threat of imprisonment today, the penalty is the forfeiture of property, the penalty is to prevent all assets from being transferred to whom and then there is nothing taken by them and they are all crazy poor people, with all the apartments they have at sea, and I don't know what the poor are and we don't have anything to take from them. But the penalty is just the confiscation of property, and that's what the Italian authorities did, and it squeezed the mob by taking their property away. I think that too much manure is being poured into the rule of law in the last days and in the past periods, that citizens and citizens already have enough of it, too much and we will all be terribly struck by it. That is why I will also support the amendment to Article 3 and, last but not least, all the legislation, because it is on the right track and it is finally something smart that we are dealing with today if we remember what we saw yesterday before yesterday. This is what this country needs and what citizens expect. I reiterate my congratulations to the ministry and to everyone on the committee and so on that we have come to this stage and I am sure that this law will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Opening login option. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Procedural? Mr. Frangez, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u24	Dear Mr. President! I just want to clear up the dilemma. I can't find an amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thanks for the heads-up, but it's in our records, and we'll check it out. I suggest we wait until we find out. Excuse me? I assume that the article is certainly open, but on the basis of this warning we will further check. I hope I can take it. Although this amendment has not been published on the e-club, it is under review because the amendment was tabled before the meeting. In any event, the amendment to this Article shall be tabled. We continue the debate. I give my word to Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. At the outset, let me just say that so many of the proposals, amendments and participations of the various economic operators and organisations of the associations concerned, as far as they were concerned in this law, are only proof of the importance of the law, that all these changes will be implemented as soon as possible, so that the economic situation and all the procedures provided for in this law can become so durable that the results in the economy can become significantly more rapid and ultimately effective. Nevertheless, there has also emerged within this law the thinking that some have already discussed today and that I would like to discuss specifically, which is the role of bankruptcy managers when they play two roles. We all know that as many bankruptcy managers as there are, there are quite a few bankruptcy managers in the role of lawyer. And when they are lawyers, the question always arises to me that I never really know when they act or act as lawyers in bankruptcy proceedings or when they act as bankruptcy managers. I also have a question of control over the work of these bankruptcy lawyers, who, as I said before, do not know when they are. And whenever one is in charge of overseeing — we know that these are two chambers, one is a chamber of bankruptcy administrators, the other is a barrister’s office — the bankruptcy manager can always say that he is supervised by the wrong chamber, for each time a chamber of bankruptcy administrators comes in, it is in the role of a lawyer, and vice versa, when a barrister comes in, it is in the role of a bankruptcy manager. Therefore, I welcome the amendment tabled by the SDS, the coalition has had a very similar view in order to make an application to effectively prevent lawyers from acting as bankruptcy administrator. Of course, there was a dilemma as to whether the constitutional rights violated were determined by a group of professions which could or should not perform a particular work. The Law-Legal Service also had some concerns or specific direct concerns, while some spoke of the constitutional dispute. I am confident that only the Constitutional Court, and not every time, can speak about what is constitutionally controversial and what is not. Therefore, I must say that I am increasingly and more surprised that we simply do not accept one simple fact, that those who, by law and by the ethical code of the bar itself, cannot pursue bankruptcy proceedings, I apologize, the lawyer cannot act as director or procurator, but can act as a bankruptcy manager. There's something simple about this explanation that doesn't work together. This is not particularly true because it is contrary to their code of ethics. However, I must say that the bar was the one who responded quickly and said that it did not support this amendment or this kind of change, if they were in violation of their rights. In Slovenia we have a thousand 500 lawyers, of which 39 are bankruptcy administrators, of which 1 is already in prison, proceedings against two are ongoing, precisely for the reasons why the debate was that the lawyer should no longer be a bankruptcy administrator. So at the beginning, when we talked about these changes very rigorously, we thought that there was no problem if the lawyer became a bankruptcy administrator. Far from it. At that point, however, he cannot be a member of the Bar and thus represent and hide behind another hat. Finally, through discussion and insolence, or as you might call it, we have written in the amendment that, in fact, a lawyer acting as a bankruptcy manager is not able to carry out a legal business in the role of the bankruptcy proceedings that he is conducting. Personally, I think this is a first step where it is very clear to lawyers that they cannot actually perform that task. Let me say the next thing. The moment the lawyer led the bankruptcy proceedings, he set certain tariffs for his services at the Bar. When a lawyer does that, he has to have a file. And now I'm wondering if someone is the bankruptcy manager where this file is kept. Does he keep it in a company that runs bankruptcy? Does he keep it in his lawyer's office? And you all know that if a lawyer's office is in charge, it has to get to the file. He also needs to check whether he really does or does not want to conduct the bankruptcy control chamber. And you all know that such supervision is virtually very difficult to carry out or virtually impossible to carry out because there must be two other lawyers present under the authority or supervision of the bar. In short, the matter is so complicated that we should simply make a clear and very clean cut here and allow what some really want: that bankruptcy managers start doing this job as a profession. And so they will be able to decide very quickly whether to perform the job of a bankruptcy manager or to pursue a legal profession. And then they'll make it very clear what they really are. If we have made it very clear in this country which functions are incompatible with other functions, I think it is time to say so also in the case of lawyers. Lawyers, I'll be very rude to say, always appear as some certain "holy cow." They are practically untouchable and can appear with their knowledge and with their needs when not necessary. I am sure that the Ministry of Law Amendments, the amendment of the law I expect very quickly, in a few months, will probably take this step forward, that we will also find certain legal explanations by then, and, I will say, certain moral and ethical cleansings to clear our heads, what is right and what is wrong, and that we will tell in this country who can do what kind of thing. Personally, I have nothing against lawyers. Far from it. Only when they're lawyers should they be lawyers. And when they're bankruptcy managers, they should be bankruptcy managers. That's all it's about. That is why I expect from the Ministry, and this is the second part of a direct proposal, namely, this law, when you read it, I am sure that you need peace in the office and sit for a few hours to understand at least a few articles, because you have to compare it to the other articles, where the thing says that you can understand it at all. And if those who deal with different legislation every day, except those who use this law daily in their profession, understand it even less by the citizens, let alone by the users who actually meet with this law daily. Therefore, the call to the Ministry in this direction to make a single non-cleaning act of law will have to be made by law, but to be legible and comprehensible, it is said that it will bring together what today, when you read individual articles, is referred to in the case of this article and this article and is practically unclear and could then very clearly clarify within a few months the issue of lawyers and also bankruptcy managers as their role. So once again, thank you all for your comments and also your appreciation for one product that is not readable, but is useful and difficult and therefore you still have a lot of work to do and I believe that you will be already in September in the National Assembly with a new novel law of course in the direction I have proposed here. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry! In New Slovenia we have already announced support for this law, we can only add, thank God, finally. And one comment from our side, too ambitious. We are not sorry that, as has already been said some year ago, we have rejected the then proposal of this law that we are considering today. Therefore, we do not regret that this text is significantly better, more ambitious, but, as we say, we would expect even more. If it is the market economy or if I remember my previous company, the company where I worked, and when we introduced ISO standard 9001, we said: The buyer is the king. I guess that's true. And as it has already been said today by a respected colleague of Mirko Brulc that we are giving the creditor more power, we can say here that the actual law is somehow following this content or this slogan in insolvency proceedings: The Trustee is the King. We are all aware, of course, that the fundamental problem of the Slovenian economy is overindebtedness and a marked increase in unhealthy, even catastrophic, debt-equity ratios. This is a problem for many Slovenian companies, and this problem actually prevents access to bank resources. As a result of this, companies are becoming increasingly troubled by the fact that the remedial measures start late and the consequences of many bankruptcys are also felt by banks because they have to correct their claims to these companies in their business books. There are some shortcomings that I would like to point out on behalf of New Slovenia, and I will only mention two. One weakness in this Act on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination is in the unfair and disproportionate distribution of benefits and burdens or risks in the process of compulsory settlement, since in this procedure ordinary creditors bear most of the burden of financial reorganization and owners have the greatest benefit from such arrangements. And the second is that the law does not encourage, this seems crucial to us, the law does not encourage early restructuring of the company, and as a result, because of the cessation of the business resulting from the confiscation of assets by insured creditors, the company ends up in bankruptcy. The introduction of many insolvency proceedings is delayed, and also to avoid challenging the legal acts of the bankruptcy debtor within a one-year time limit of dissuasion. I was a witness at the beginning of our 2004-2008 term, and I think it was early in 2005, the bankruptcy of Planika. Many also remember this bankruptcy, I think that the bankruptcy manager was Mr Marinc, and I congratulated him at the time that he made a great deal of efforts not to stop the production of Planike in Turnish in Prekmurje. There, 250 workers trembled to work, great efforts were made, production continued to flow, production for world brands. If the machines were to be shut down there, they would probably have a situation similar to that of a burnout in the yard of this company. Maybe I'll touch on the consequences of the changes in insolvency law. The main consequence will probably be that companies will no longer be hostage of capital owners, but that their fate will be in the hands of economic owners, i.e. creditors. Such a shift will also improve the payment discipline in the economy, as companies that do not pay their obligations will quickly move from owners to creditors’ hands, and this will force owners to start the recovery procedures substantially earlier in order not to expose themselves to the risk of expulsion. Companies would have begun restructuring earlier, and now they have the opportunity to start restructuring earlier. And even the time of the restructuring could be shorter. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group supports the proposed legislation. Of course, we do not have any problems with the support of the 3rd article proposed by the coalition, and we will then also come forward with support for other amendments. Of course, a word of thanks must be given to all those who have contributed to this law so that today the National Assembly can deal with it. However, it has always seemed that the amendment of this legislation is running considerably too slowly. This is amazing how long it took us to get to this text, and all the time it seemed that there were some lobbies in the back that were actually pushing sticks or triggering a brake on the wheels of the drafting of this legislation. It is true, as has already been said today, that bankruptcy managers – I do not want to throw everyone in the same basket to understand each other, we have fairies, bankruptcy managers who have been watching and have already seen that actual production in companies that have problems and are just ahead of the bankruptcy threshold, that it did not stop, as I said before, the Planika case, but we also have bankruptcy managers who, in the course of some bankruptcy proceedings, have become abnormally rich, have been close to information and have thus been able to obtain property. And then, of course, it is logical that the bankruptcy procedures in Slovenia have lasted and continue abnormally long. Here we should really take an example in developed economies, for example in Germany, where, as far as I'm following the case, bankruptcy actually happens overnight, almost the workers don't feel it, nor do the buyers, the production goes on. The owner is changing and no economic damage is done and there is no room for economic crime. Once again, I express my support for this law on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, and I want it to be as we thought it would be, in the spirit of the law, that it will also be enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you! If I had to describe this novel in three words, I would say: faster, more transparent and efficient. And, of course, these are all the values we defend in the Civil Gazette, so congratulations to our Minister for Inserting the novel, although late. I agree that if we had good insolvency legislation before the crisis, we could keep more jobs. I therefore predict support for the amendment, but in this debate we would limit ourselves to the amendment to Article 3, which we are discussing and discussing, by means of this amendment, we are resolving the problems in practice arising from the interpretation of Article 14 of the original law, when the debtor was late for more than three months with payment of wages and only after the application for insolvency proceedings has been submitted, only to those workers who have submitted such a proposal has paid the late obligations. With this amendment, we are removing these uncertainties, so this amendment has my support. However, if we are talking about maintaining jobs, I would still like to touch on the fact that, at the time when we are considering the amendment of this law, which also aims at maintaining healthy kernels, I must – at the same time – thank the government team on behalf of Svee workers who have been going to work for two months, although they have not received wages and today I hope that our ministers will confirm the state aid package to the company and thus help maintain the 50-year-old brand and help to keep the Svea five hearts of our homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mrs. Plevcak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a very warm greeting to all present. We have already announced support for this legislation in our parliamentary group, but I think that it is 10 years too late, because at this time we have lost, regardless of the economic crisis that has come from outside, a lot of jobs, hugely closed down factories and businesses, and have supported many of those who have been "in the trough" as we like to say, and have benefited from bank loans on the basis of knowledge and our companies that have had the opportunity to do so have been bankrupt. During all this crisis, it was the work that people were doing, watching things go back in individual economies and warned about it, but the management probably didn't realize it and didn't react. I think that in all economic operators, when insolvent capacity becomes available, companies should take action immediately because we know that money and capital are not available and that early intervention is necessary to preserve certain companies or businesses. Whether it's small or larger, we don't really have big ones anymore. I think it is right that we have proposed or that this law provides for the protection of workers and all those who are creditors in certain companies and will be treated as a priority. Let the bank stay behind unless it has properly analyzed the situation in which it has credited the bad companies. The next thing I want to touch is bankruptcy managers. It has already been said that we have such and different ones, that we also have condemned ones. I know a few cases where some have really become enormously rich at the expense of doing this job. However, my view is that bankruptcy managers must be experts in financial, legal and, above all, economic activities, because if we are to maintain those healthy cores in large companies, there is a need for cooperation, including the economy. I think this is not noticeable in our economy or in our bankruptcy procedures. Somehow there is a feeling in the public that they are just trying to take advantage of workers who have lost most of their income and on the road. We see what's going on in Maribor now. With a bag of food products, and so long to work in a company, there is certainly a great psychological and moral defeat. And I'm afraid for these people. Therefore, I think that certain things in this law will have to be complemented, of course, through procedures, through good and consistent analyses. And I support this law. As I said, it must be ten years too late. I am convinced that many economic organisations, businesses and individuals, independent entrepreneurs could survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the way for the application. We are discussing Article 3. You want procedural? Masha Kociper, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u34	A procedural proposal to fellow Members to stick to the established practice, however, and to the individual amendment, we are talking about that amendment. Many discussers discussed the amendment to Article 15, namely bankruptcy administrators, lawyers and so on, in the amendment to Article 3. Article 15 is an article referring to this substantive amendment. I suggest we insist on good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you. Well, it's not about practice, it's about the rules of procedure. However, this law has such strong support, so I do not think there will be any doubts about these discussions or exchanges of views. I give my word to Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. It is true that the Rules of Procedure say what has just been said. At the same time, it is true that we sometimes pass by, as you said, and especially when we agree. I have a little of that purpose myself, even though I won't be long. The SDS, as I said in the opening recital, particularly in terms of whether or not lawyers are asking questions, we have indeed tabled such a stronger amendment, sharper, even though if the coalition does not consider it appropriate, we will also support the coalition. In general, though, there is something to be said about this marriage. And I am very glad that the debate is going as well as that everyone is supporting the matter. Well, maybe we could give up the debate, but sooner we could finish the thing, which would be fine, wouldn't we? I think that the Minister, as has already been said, and here I am joining the leaders of the Group of Positive Slovenia and the judges also share this opinion – it must be made very clear that this is the law, the judges say, where you can easily step on a mine, as they say, or into a hole. It is also true, respected by the Ministry, that it is now the first time that the law has not been prepared by any person who has had, that I think 20 years of copyright over amendments to this law. And that's why this marriage is going in the right direction, and I really welcome it. However, I think it is really necessary to make this effort to make this legislation even better and more transparent in the autumn, as the Minister has announced, and to help businesses in difficulty. But it is also true, you know, that even if such a law had been adopted 15 years ago or such a change had been adopted, it would probably not have prevented bankruptcy completely, so that the entity does not show itself to work. The truth is that we will keep healthy cores much easier and better, at least so I understand these changes in the law, and that bankruptcy will not always mean a lock on the production hall and the departure of workers at home. Given the level of consensus, I believe that we could also shorten the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Members and honourable Members! We are indeed on the amendment to Article 3, but let me, like the rest of my speakers, speak a little more broadly about the law that we have before us, because it is a complex matter which the public has been waiting for for a long time. And I do not see any reason why Members should not give a more general opinion on the subject in the amendments. We have an extremely difficult legislation ahead of us, which we have also explained on the Justice Committee itself. This was agreed upon by all, including those who are familiar with these procedures. Of course, we expected this legislation to come into the parliamentary procedure much earlier. Mr Senko Plitcanič, Minister of Justice, spoke very much in the previous government about what must be done in this area, but it was difficult to move from words to actions. This is happening today, and we in the Slovenian Democratic Party welcome this step that has been taken. Why is it necessary to talk today about insolvency law, and why is it necessary to adopt it? In particular, because the indebtedness of Slovenian companies is extremely high, because the procedures for forced settlement are too long and because the general economic situation, where we all want to maintain healthy cores in companies, is extremely bad. So bad that some workers don't even get paid for their work or just stay on the road. If we look at bankruptcy statistics alone, we can see that in 2009, I apologize, we had a 332, in 2010 510 and in 2011 675. In addition to other indicators showing a bad picture of the situation in this country — from unemployment, economic growth, which we know has taken place, to public debt, and so on — it is also important to see how much bankruptcy has increased over the years. About a year ago, the Justice Committee — a year ago — why do I keep this in mind? Since we expected that after that public debate in the National Assembly, where all those who know about these issues and are deeply involved in these issues, of course, we expected the Minister to react substantially as soon as possible and to put the legislation into procedural proceedings. And that didn't happen. But now we are where we are. Thank God we made that move. However, it was not in vain that we then organised a public presentation of the opinions, because at the time they actually began to draw up opinions from different participants and I believe that a number of guidelines also helped the Minister in drafting this legislation. The purpose of the public presentation was, as always, to obtain different views from both professions and other stakeholders. At that time, we asked most of the most competent and professional answers, how many forced settlements have been successfully voted in recent years, and how much has been paid in full. Of course, at the time we were also interested in the question of the current position of the creditor committee in the forced settlement and bankruptcy. We also wondered whether it was appropriate and whether the position of the creditor committee should also be expanded. And this legislation has taken that into account. This legislation clearly strengthens the position of creditors and most creditors are then those who can also resolve the bankruptcy manager. However, what brings this legislation and is undoubtedly crucial is to ensure faster and more effective action in insolvency proceedings. The fact is, as I said at the outset, our companies and the Slovenian economy are in over-indebted and we have to fight against it. Last but not least, the interest of all of us, including the minister, who initially stated what his opinion or position is on the proposed legislation is, and this is undoubtedly to preserve as many Slovenian companies as possible or to preserve as many healthy kernels within these companies. That's why I'm going to support the legislation. I will also support our amendments that we have proposed. Perhaps later on in other open articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues welcome! When we talk about this amendment to Article 3, however, this amendment does speak of providing for slightly clearer procedures or definitions as to when certain proceedings against debtors may be initiated. But this is a step towards creditors. And those who know exactly the situation in this area so far will be able to admit that the bankruptcy administrator and the bankruptcy judges were the emperors to understand that the whole world revolved around them. And that certain procedures ran only because of procedures such as these and that in these procedures, as much money could be spent as possible. You know the case of the bankruptcy manager of the SCT, who drew 200 000 euros to conduct bankruptcy proceedings. I think it's a big deal, but I want everyone to decide for themselves. The reason why I and our parliamentary group will support this law is that it certainly moves, that the weight in this law is given or moved in the direction of creditors. Of course, we do not have the illusion that this law will solve all the problems, although very high-flying words are falling in this debate today, but I am sure that not all the problems will be solved. Nevertheless, many problems remain. And we in the parliamentary group would, however, propose further improvements and corrections. Despite the fact that you have all given relative praise to these proposals today, however, there is still a lack of a much clearer deadline for work in the bankruptcy process itself and a very clear penalty for what happens if you do not stick to those deadlines. These things I think are missing in this correction. One last thing. I think that we need to understand that bankruptcy is not necessarily the end of the business, but that it can in some way mean a new start, by bringing those owners that have led to bankruptcy into bankruptcy, in some way decommissioning or withdrawing from ownership. That, I think, is the look we should be looking at. And the final or final stage of improvement of these laws, which everyone has a lot of comments on, is to find a way, however, that those who bring businesses to bankruptcy cannot open new businesses in a certain period of time. If this is possible in Austria, I do not understand why this is not possible in Slovenia. So, you know what's going on, you put the company in bankruptcy, the next day you open a new one, and the procedures continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you. Anybody else want to talk about Article 3? However, we have the opportunity to continue the discussions around Articles 13 and 15 and there are still a lot of articles or they will be open. I see that there is still a desire to discuss this article. Does anyone else wish to discuss Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3? I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. The word has Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In the amendment to this article, I would like to say just a few words on the more balanced role of creditors. It is true, as Mr Tonin said before me, that, in the belief of many of the previous laws, he was much more inclined, if I so say, to the bankrupt debtor and how the bankruptcy proceedings are carried out, that the procedure is the same. In this sense, perhaps we are now talking about greater balance in this law, in which all stakeholders in bankruptcy and other insolvency proceedings are more evenly represented. What seems particularly important to me in this regard is that the law is the result of a broad and long-term dialogue among the many stakeholders set out by this law, among the Chamber of Commerce, among the representatives of bankruptcy managers, including lawyers, then the Association of Banks, Bank of Slovenia and so on. This is the result of one long and broad dialogue, which is before us in the form of a law, such as, interestingly, none of these stakeholders are fully satisfied and would change anything else, but in principle they are all satisfied. And that seems to me the right result, it seems, is that no one is preferred in this sense to be in a better position, because then others would disagree, they are all in a more equal position than they were before. I also agree with the predecessors' statements that this law is still too complex to prevent, in the form it is now, the use in entrepreneurs, individuals, members of administrations and others who enforce this law, but in practice do not have specific legal skills, it is said that they would have completed a law college, a judicial exam and so on. And of course that's not right. A law such as this should be written in such a way as to be understood in principle by those who enforce it. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and I support myself, and I have repeatedly appealed to the Ministry to see this law prepared in the future for a new one. And I remember, when I was conducting a judicial exam and I was learning under this law, this law was a tenth as extensive as it is now, and it was perfectly understandable on its basis to imagine how the bankruptcy process was going, how the enforcement procedure was proceeding and what the tasks of the individuals involved in it were. So much for a start. Positive Slovenia, of course, supports the law, thinks it is very important not only for the extension of the economy, for the sake of maintaining healthy kernels, which has already been a lot of talk, but also because our party has been stressing all the time that it will have to fight for every single job and for every economic society that is needed and can be saved. As you know, we are always talking about the law of the economy as an important factor for the recovery of the country, not only saving, but also starting the economy will make a significant contribution to recovery, and if there are no companies left with reference, with knowledge, with healthy cores to drive this economy, then all good measures and desires will not help us. Thus, the government's actions in the matter of Cimos, including our decision in the case of Pekko, including what is now going on with Sveo, all this goes in this direction to get rid of what is going on to get rid of that which is that we have somewhere to start the economy and that we will preserve and subsequently acquire new jobs on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs. Alexandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. The novelty that lies ahead represents one of the essential reform tools for solving the economic crisis in our country. We must be aware that, in the process of forcible settlement, we are maintaining jobs and there is a high likelihood that an undertaking or an economic operator will continue to operate. In our economic and financial situation, which is very bad and has caused such a situation to increase the number of insolvency proceedings, it is very important that the healthy cores of the economy are maintained and jobs maintained. It is also essential that the novelty causes positive changes in the protection of the creditor, in particular the creditor of the employee, as it increases its powers and rights. It is important to emphasise the new fact that the exclusive price may also be lower in the sale of the debtor's assets, which will certainly increase the share of its assets and will not result in the bankruptcy process itself so quickly. However, I would like to point out that, in practice, it has been shown that in bankruptcy proceedings, lawyers, bankruptcy managers, valueholders, executors and creditors are the ones who suffer the greatest harm as they are left without payment of debts due to the depletion of the bankruptcy mass. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u46	It is clear that we have now allowed a very general debate on this article, which speaks of a minor addition to Article 3, and that is why I will also come to this place, as did the predecessors. If you ask me, the best bankruptcy legislation is that legislation, which is very short and which only at the basic level defines the fundamental roles of the participants in the process. Let's see who the participants are. A court which should only have the role of one who watches over the legality of the proceedings. The manager carrying out operational activities relating to the insolvency procedure should be a financial restructuring or bankruptcy. On the other hand, we have a group which, unlike the first two, is directly and economically interested in bringing the insolvency proceedings to an end by maximising the proceeds for creditors. Of course they're creditors. All the innovations so far, this is not the first among them, in fact, have gradually strengthened the role of the creditor committee and the individual creditors' poles in the insolvency process. Are now the creditors really, I will say, such masters of the procedure that we should talk about this novel in the surpluses that we are hearing today? No, not yet. Some have previously said that creditors are the supervisory board of the company in bankruptcy proceedings or other insolvency proceedings. And that's exactly what it should be. They should choose the manager, with this amendment being able to resolve him, which is absolutely right, the absolute right to look at the entire documentation, and in particular, as has already been said, to change the logic of the procedure. The logic of the procedure is not just the sale of the bankruptcy mass, but simply that it is necessary to establish that in an enterprise which is insolvent, there has already been a decommissioning effect, not that we will already plant the owner, but that the fact that there is negative capital in itself means that the title of this property is simply no longer in the condition of being the owner. If you want it in the legal context. If I owe 110 units and I own 100 units, it's clear that I'm no longer the owner of anything. In this respect, it is essential that the legal procedure simply recognises this economic fact. And I say, although this novel is remarkable progress, we will only talk about the surpluses of this novel once it has proved in practice that we have not yet taken a decisive step in this area. Another time. Some have already mentioned some outstanding cases. I'm saying we don't need one hand in this marriage. We need a strong board of creditors who will be interested in the process being carried out in a way that will maximize the proceeds of the debtor's mass. They will pressure the manager and ensure that the administrator carries out all actions in the shortest possible time in a legal manner and in a manner that will enable creditors, including workers, to pay the maximum amount of claims they have to the debtor. One more look. I agree with what Masha Kociper used to say about the complexity of this legislation. One of the key novelties of this novel is the simplified enforcement settlement, which is de facto described in this law: these articles and these chapters do not apply to the simplified enforcement procedure. Now let someone put in a logical description of the simplified forced settlement, if possible in this hall or outside. In the context of the consideration of this law, we have proposed that the articles governing the enforcement settlement should be regulated in such a way that the text of the law makes clear what is being used in this procedure and what the simplified enforcement procedure looks like. The Maribor foundry is one of the good examples. The bankruptcy of Sanitec and Armala is a good example of one who would probably not have been present to him, and of a number of other companies, if in time, perhaps when the majority of the National Assembly voted out the inappropriateness of the previous attempt of this novel to simplify procedures and make insolvency proceedings effective. Me, too, and I believe that my pet Majdo Potrato also hurts the heart when we see people leaving factories with a bag in their hands for decades. The factory, which still has a promising production programme, is well known. But what was missing in this case, and in many other cases, which this law and the law on systemic delinquency will not solve unless we solve another problem, and that is the problem of banks? The banks have already converted the share of their claims, and they should have had an even greater share in order for the company to sail out. And above all, what is common crime to me, various intermediaries to the strategic investor, the buyer of the factory, this is Saniteca and Armala, should not, should say, "Wait, don't buy now for 11 million euros" which would save not only Armala but also the rest of the foundry. "Don't buy for 11 million, wait for bankruptcy, then you'll get at least half the price." This happened in the case of Armal and the Medici. Someone drove away an investor, a serious investor, who was willing to continue production and strengthen the brand of this factory. You know, none of these cases can be resolved until we, with the appropriate responsibility of all levels of society, approach problems and realize that everything needs to be done under the watchful supervision of those who are interested in this control: whether it be the politicians, the national assembly, the government or the administrators in bankruptcy proceedings. Without this effective legal system, an effective competitive economic environment cannot be created.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Can we conclude a discussion under Article 3? I note that there are no applications for discussion, so I am closing the debate on Article 3 and moving on to the consideration of Article 13 and the two amendments. The amendment of the coalition and the amendment of the SDS Group shall be submitted to Article 13. Who wants to discuss the amendments to Article 13? I find that there are no applications, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to Article 15. Article 15 is subject to the amendment of the coalition, which is linked to Articles 16, 17, 19, 73a. The second amendment is tabled by the SDS Group and is linked to paragraphs 16, 72 and 75. That is why I am putting into consideration these paragraphs 15, as well as paragraphs 16, 17, 19, 72, 73a and 75. All of these articles are subject to the amendments tabled. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. I give my word to Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry as well. Thus, the amendment tabled by the coalition must be attached, and as before, I support it, but I also support the whole law. I support this amendment because there is likely to be a lot of words from this point forward about lawyers and the function of managers. It is likely that this point will spark a debate that will somehow tear apart this romantic atmosphere. There is little time for our marriage, a novel that would have as much united support as this marriage. We are all united in the fact that the law should have been adopted long before, and we are all united in the fact that because we did not adopt the law, there was great damage to the economy, a lot of healthy kernels we let down and we did not keep them. So this unity is actually expected and very good. From here on out, there will be a dilemma as to whether lawyers can act as administrator or not. Of course, with the amendment, we want to achieve that a lawyer appointed as a manager cannot represent a debtor in certain judicial and other proceedings, which we think is right. If appointed as manager, he should do so, as he is also awarded a prize and is subject to sanctions if he is particularly involved in any other proceedings relating to the debtor. It is likely that there will be a great deal of talk below about completely depriving lawyers of the right to be appointed governors. In this case, I would say so, perhaps if it were clarified what the legal position is, what the constitutional opinion is about whether we could discriminate against a profession and prevent it from performing a certain function. After all, lawyers are qualified to manage the function of bankruptcy managers, because they had to obtain a license for this, they had to pass the exam like everyone else and therefore it would probably be discriminatory to say, but now the profession of a lawyer is not the one who could perform this function. If this were also cleared from a legal point of view, whether it was possible or not, then they would have made a better decision and probably all would have made a better decision. After all, when we also look at the fact that at the moment about forty lawyers are performing this function, it is likely that the adoption of this amendment, which prevents lawyers from performing their duties, would seriously cut into bankruptcy proceedings, since forty lawyers should cease this function. This is a dilemma that is related to some other issues that should be resolved earlier in order for Members to make a better decision and make a more correct decision. However, let me say that it is a great pleasure to have this novel adopted in more discipline, control over the work of bankruptcy managers. Look, bankruptcy managers, at least some, I will not generalise, because some are honest and are probably doing their job as they were arrested before a court to do it effectively quickly and fairly. However, there are many such bankruptcy managers, even from my own environment, when they have their interests in bankruptcy proceedings, some of the interests of some likely material bases, bankruptcy proceedings are being carried out because the bankruptcy manager knows as long as the bankruptcy mass is still available, he will be there. But in the end, when the bankruptcy process is over, they remain on the list of unemployed workers, poor and indignant workers, on the other hand, some of the halls that are falling remain a mountain, from which some could say what many bankruptcy managers go with the fat bag of money they earn on such bankruptcy. I therefore welcome the fact that this novel is probably not the last one, because the matter cannot now be resolved with some rapid intervention definitively and in such a form as to be satisfactory, that it will continue to change further, but that the introduction of discipline and some control over the performance of this work is very, very appropriate, very necessary, and it is right to be introduced. I am in favour of the amendment to Article 15, but I do not support it until we have clear starting points, a clear opinion on legal matters, which also concern article, of the opposition party's SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you. I'll try to explain to my colleague Matjaž why it would be wise for lawyers not to be bankruptcy administrators. We have already done a number of things in relation to insolvency law. In 2008 and 2004-2008, the law was amended, the awards for bankruptcy managers were reduced, forced settlement became public and published in Apes, and colleague Hočevareva spoke of transparency. There was a lot of opposition back then to why it would be public. As was the case with the Takeover Act, for example, when we introduced that the ownership shares of the shareholders must be made public by then, we knew the silent associates and so on. And then you're constantly using that to say that there were the most tycoons in the period 2004-2008. It is not true, because they were already preparing to take over companies, but were not made public by then. However, this amendment has been made public and some procedures may have been initiated and violations of the law started. For example, the proceedings against Mr. Kordez and Mercury started at the time, and we saw the epilogue last year. However, it would not have been necessary to publish the shares at that time. But we've done some stupid things. For example, in 2009, Minister Zalar changed the Penal Code. We changed the Penal Code by removing the crime of the bankruptcyer by mismanagement. And we wrote in on the proposal of Minister Zalar a new crime of 'false bankruptcy with a view to damaging creditors', for which there is a need for slander and no more negligence at work than before. We then warned, Minister Zalar and the then coalition did not want to hear this, and the matter thus entered into the Code of Penalties and is in effect. The criminals I spoke to because of some of the other cases of the investigative commission I led said that the hardest thing to prove was slander. And we have now written this down, so we cannot pursue certain things that we could otherwise. Today the situation is such that we read about the connections between judges and bankruptcy managers and come out of this whole affair, the minister demands data, analysis or reports, as required now in the case of Hilda's escape, but nothing happens in the end or I think that one of the bankruptcy managers was one, I think Bončina, the judge, not even and so on. It is said that we have not done anything clever and that even a public affair does not lead to some conclusions. Now why do I think lawyers can't be bankruptcy administrators or why we tabled this amendment? If any review, such as the Tax Administration or the Court of Auditors, were to be carried out by bankruptcy managers, how their financial situation improved when they became bankruptcy managers, they would probably find out a lot because paper would be fine because we know that the manager who usually manages multiple bankruptcys also proposes the award, then the court approves it and is essentially paper fine. Although we know that instead of paying off creditors, the bankruptcy manager is richly rewarded for work or slow work, work and so on, while for all the others who are in the process, that is, creditors, we are not interested in much. Most of these bankruptcy managers have multiple espies open, after several companies they do it through. They're also working on multiple procedures, seven to ten bankruptcys. What if it's such a difficult procedure? Are they super people themselves or what? To have a lawyer's office, this afternoon's espa, run a bankruptcy of some ten, seven, five large companies, a complicated case that takes years and years. But it's obvious that some people can do it easily. Now let's take a look at some examples. A number of times it also happened that lawyers, those who are bankruptcy administrators, are also filing lawsuits themselves. By the way, they're charging themselves with legal services to do this. There are quite a few such cases, and I will also tell them below. In any event, the lawyer is the one who has a confidential relationship with the client, and this may sometimes conflict with what he does as a bankruptcy manager. Igor Boncino has already been mentioned as the bankruptcy manager. You know, in that affair that was happening to us, he was connected to Judge Matthew Levstek because of the bride's work and so on. Police are investigating past bankruptcys and forced settlements in Bonn, but he is still conducting bankruptcy proceedings in several companies, Dom Interiera, forced settlement of the Danube vertical and so on. He's had a little less income since last year than he's had before, but he's still not much of a poor guy. Then Mr Boris Dolamič, the bankruptcy manager, you know that the last director of the Grosuplje Construction Company, which is in bankruptcy, too. The bankruptcy is run by another lady, Melita Butara. But Mr Dolamic is running several ten bankruptcys, bankruptcy procedures, including in the Roman terminities. I asked the Minister about how someone who can get their company to bankruptcy to deal with his company now, and he is running a bankruptcy elsewhere and has not taken the opportunity and taken the cases away, because for my terms this should happen immediately. Again, it is a very difficult procedure, sir being able to run a dozen bankruptcys at once. Tell me how. Next, the bankruptcy manager of SCT Leon Beniger Tošič. Last year, he was investigated by the Board of Directors, the Police and the Anti-Corruption Commission, for providing his own legal services for 200,000. Why can't lawyers be bankruptcy managers? He has filed more than 170 counter-claims challenging SCT payments within a year prior to insolvency. If anyone understands this and if it can happen without responding to it, I have to say, big problems. Once again, it must be a matter for the tax review and review of the Court of Auditors of all these gentlemen and others. However, while defending himself when he objected, he said that bankruptcy legislation did not prohibit the granting of business to related companies. So he's got multiple companies, espies, companies, and he's consulting through one, he's got bankruptcy through the other, and so on. Is that what we're dealing with? Not after what I read. I'm asking the Ministry if that's what we're doing. Then it's lawyer Andrej Toš, who's running seven procedures. It should be similar to that of Beniger Tošič when he charged himself as a bankruptcy manager. Nothing happens. Conducting bankruptcy proceedings involving several major companies and financial institutions, including Slovenian Savings and Loans KIK Group Kamnik Chemical Industry, the domestic clothing industry of the University, IPC Holding and the subsidiaries of the failed construction companies SGP Zasavje Invest and SCT Primorska. Mrs Alenka Gril, the bankruptcy manager of the Vegrad construction site, also has two companies and Galbi has another esp. Vegrada’s bankruptcy led through espionage, there was 62 000 euros of revenue there last year, while in the company I mentioned it almost doubled to a weak 100,000 euros in revenue in Galbi and it also runs four other procedures. The bankruptcy manager of Radeče Paper Borut Soklić conducts five procedures, Pergamum's syndicate manifests a strong lack of activity in the bankruptcy of Radeča Paper, which has been going on since April last year. Most of these gentlemen I have listed, but I have forgotten to mention, of course, the chief, Mr Goršet, who I think is already on the verge of being sentenced to four years in prison for abuse of the position. But here it may also have to be mentioned that there should probably be also Andrej Sever, founder and director of HKS Sikura, but here the prosecution and court have a little secret, things are outdated and the gentleman is walking nicely, and he doesn't have to run away, just as Hilda had to, because no one is chasing him, because we're a little late, we're too late, and the judges, especially Judge Jernej Potoccar, who is in charge of this, will probably say something. I think, in view of the fact that lawyers should not be bankruptcy administrators or even think that we should think about professionalizing this function and that those who lead bankruptcy should only do this and not be a lawyer, have no idea how many businesses and so on. This is what we are proposing, and we are also proposing a limit on the number of bankruptcys that can be managed by someone. If this is such a difficult matter, you can’t suddenly lead 10 bankruptcys or lead one, perhaps the matter will end in one year, not in a few years. If you lead ten of them, the story stretches out for many years. For those of you who say that lawyers are good bankruptcy managers, I think that to lead bankruptcy, to find a healthy core or to find a buyer for a healthy core and so on, are much more important or appropriate economic knowledge than legal knowledge. And for my understanding, this should be the basis, i.e. the economic knowledge of the one who leads the bankruptcy, but not that he is familiar with the writing of the lawsuits and so on, that he is a lawyer. Of course it would be great to unite both, but a bankruptcy manager, an economist, certainly hires or cooperates with lawyers because he needs them in his work. Some of you mentioned jobs, if these gentlemen did not have three companies, it would be quite a few jobs for new bankruptcy managers who would only deal with this. Also, colleague Kavtičnik told the board last time that everyone should do their job, and it will be. I'm also sure you can't do one job in the morning, three more in the afternoon, unless you're some superman, so you can do 16, 18, 20 hours a day. Maybe it's even going on for a while, but to do things effectively and very well all the time, I've given an example of social work centres where some directors have their own company or the director of a psychiatric hospital that has a public institution that does research and so on. [[...]] These gentlemen or ladies, for my notions at work this morning, are working too little if they still have a lot of energy to even deal with other things this afternoon. And we're gonna have to settle these things in this country sometime. I am pleased that some in Positive Slovenia think similarly, not even here near Matjaž and Mrs Kociper, but that is how I understood Mr Möderndorfer. As it is said, let us reflect on the professionalization of this function, since then it is also easier to control and also easier to determine whether someone has done his job in the right way or not. I propose that the former President of the Bar also advocates such a position that lawyers should not be bankruptcy administrators and anyone else to support the amendment to article 15. I regret that this was not already in the basic proposal of the law. This is where it flies to the minister or to the government. I think that would make it a big deal for all future bankruptcys. These gentlemen, whom I have mentioned and who are in the process, I propose to the Minister that he take away their licence as soon as possible so that they can pursue bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, let me say that I strongly and firmly oppose the way in which such a discussion has now been held by a colleague in front of me, and which some in particular have from a party to the SDS. I repeatedly repeat that it seems to me that for this speaker in the National Assembly in a public place by name, people are mentioned under certain assumptions, "saying, saying, hearing it, I mean..." who are not present, who cannot defend themselves, seems to me to be irregular and unacceptable. And I don't know any of these gentlemen and lady that there will be no mistake, I don't know any, I don't have any contact with any of them, I have no interest in saying this, but it seems to me that it's wrong and simply unfair for a Member to speak publicly with his power about some unfinished proceedings, about predictions, but people have no opportunity to defend themselves. And then you read, Mrs Jeraj, the lists and you judge how demanding the process is and how sure he can't have that much time and how he filed 190 counterclaims, a disaster that understands it, and so on. One of the essential things that makes the bankruptcy mass of companies smaller is that, when the company sees that it has insolvency problems, they conclude on a fast-track basis. We all know that. And one of the key tasks of the bankruptcy manager is that he then challenges you, that is also what the GDD allows, and in this sense he already says in advance "Look, he has invested 190, haha, haha, whether you can believe that he believes who he wants". We can't do this flat-rate work. Probably also among the bankruptcy managers in Slovenia there are some people who do not work ethically and do not do what is right, this is shown by the latest procedures, but we cannot again in this case as much as elsewhere, on average, judge that they are bad, that they suck and so on. Now I'm debating, but I can see that you're going to have a replica, Mrs Jeraj, because it's no problem, because we're going to make a deal. I mean, a little less generalization, a little more correctness. I'm sure there's someone among the bankruptcy managers who's doing good, whether it's a lawyer or a lawyer, because it doesn't matter. The bankruptcy manager, as I understand it, has a very, very difficult task in bankruptcy. He should come as one crisis manager at the end and solve what he can. And this is a very difficult and responsible work, which should also be appropriate salary. Because with this reduction in payments and so on, who will then decide to do so? [[...]] Should we restrict them, then, if bankruptcy occurs, they can never again act as bankruptcy managers, as managers, and so on, as was the intensification of the legislation proposed by the Slovenian People's Party and for which the Constitutional Court has now definitively said that it is completely flawed and almost completely repealed this law? Because these are complex issues that interfere with rights and that need to be addressed with soundness of mind. That is why I would also like the bankruptcy management to manage as it is necessary for people to be adequately paid to do their work ethically. I agree that in the past in Slovenia, the work of the bankruptcy manager has been perceived too often by the bankruptcy managers in terms of a liquidator, a fast liquidator of the company, as mentioned earlier by Mr Frangež. If I go directly to the amendment to Article 15. As Mr Möderndorfer said, even in Positive Slovenia, we were probably thinking about the option under the same impression of these different procedures when adopting this legislation, so the first suggestion was that lawyers should not act as bankruptcy managers. But after some reflection and then opposition expressed not only by the Bar Association, the Chamber of Fusion Managers and the State Council, but also very strongly by the Legal and Legal Service. We have modified our solution in this sense to continue to advocate this same goal as you and your amendment want to achieve, but in our opinion more appropriately. The Legislative and Legal Service, as I have on the Committee, has also pointed out that the identification of an entire professional group from the management of a particular profession would be an excessive measure which could also affect constitutional rights, such as the right to free economic initiative or the right to free choice of profession or professional management, and that the Constitutional Court has already identified such a solution as inappropriate. Due to some anomalies, one whole professional group could be excluded from the management of the profession or the work of the bankruptcy manager, even in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, and this could, I add, lead to absurdity if all other professions, teachers, florists, medics and I do not know who performed this function, lawyers who are a graduate lawyer could not. Nor do I think that only a lawyer or a lawyer can act as a bankruptcy, of course economic knowledge and the most important, but it is true that this person must know and apply an extremely complex law, which is the law that we are talking about today, and that is why these knowledge is not superfluous. After an ideal function, of course, the bankruptcy manager cooperates with various persons who then contribute additional knowledge and can gain their knowledge. Therefore, in the final stage, Positive Slovenia has now proposed an amendment which before you, which solves the same problem and addresses it, and because of everything that has been said, also because of what Mrs Jeraj said, says that when a lawyer is also a bankruptcy administrator, he must not represent this bankruptcy debtor in judicial and other proceedings concerning this bankruptcy procedure and must not use the term of lawyer. This solves according to the content of the problem that we are talking about today, but does not, of course, solve the definitive problem, because, as everywhere, of course, there are potential abuses. That is true, it shows that this decision is already contained in the Code of Juridical Ethics in a similar way, but it has not been applied so far, but here again we have the same problem as many in our country – control. Whoever's in charge of the bankruptcy process, we know. And these functions are now strengthened by this law and also give creditors more entitlements to the bankruptcy manager. Both directions are now being corrected and I hope that they will also have some positive consequences in practice. However, as far as the debate on the professionalisation of the insolvency manager's function is concerned, I can more agree because this professionalisation, even so I have understood Mr Jeraj, has dealt equally with all professions which, of course, should decide whether to work their basic profession or to specialize in the profession of bankruptcy manager. The problem is that we cannot solve such things again with an ad hoc amendment, because it can lead to a situation where someone who will only be a bankruptcy manager and will depend on its survival, but will have, say, three bankruptcys of some small businesses, small bankruptcys with a small bankruptcy mass to ensure their survival, will pull these bankruptcys, do all the work himself, and so on, pay off on this basis an hour of work and so on. This solution to professionalize this issue seems much more systemic to me, but requires serious reflection. In addition to the SDS amendment, which I am speaking on my behalf in Positive Slovenia or now, I will not support. It is true that we are only talking about, I think, Mr Möderndorfer said, sixty-six lawyers who are also bankruptcy administrators, but currently these bankruptcy administrators are doing a great deal of work and such an immediate change of law could interfere with the dynamics of this operation and lead to delays in the resolution of bankruptcy proceedings, which at present would be very inappropriate and bad for the economy. I support the amendment of Positive Slovenia and will not support the SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kociper. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you. I'd say to my colleague Kociprov, you're a very common person. We keep listening, you in the SDS, we're all the same and you keep generalizing. I don't generalize because I know that not all bankruptcy managers are bad, that not all lawyers are bad, that not all teachers are bad, that not all doctors are bad. In all professions, people try to do their best, one that works better, one that works less, and one that always comes with little work or even with a bad job. That's what I'm talking about. That's why I said specifically which people I don't think are doing well. I didn't make that up. They're in the process. They're being investigated. Probably not because they work very well — or how? You're probably in the process because you didn't do something right. And that's because some things are public because some things are published and everything can't be thrown into the bottom drawer and forgotten about that. If you think it's okay for a lawyer, who is also a bankruptcy administrator, to charge his own legal services and thus earn 200 000 euros, I apologize, that's a problem for me. You might need lawyer services for 70,000 euros, but since he's charging himself, that's 200, we're gonna do a little more. Come on, it can be done, just like it's estimated, if we charge ourselves, he'll write himself the same way that things are going to be paper, but of course they'll be cut short, we know who, creditors, what I've already said. For me, the cases I've told you indicate that this is a problem and that something needs to be done. I know, Mrs Kociprova, that you're a lawyer, that you have to defend your colleagues, but I don't think this is the case in these cases. It's about the complexity of cases. I don't know bankruptcy procedures, but we keep talking about difficult cases here, even bankruptcy managers say it's difficult cases, so they're entitled to such high rewards, and that's why things take so long. I believe that these are difficult cases, and therefore I do not believe that someone can run 10 bankruptcys of some large companies, unless he wants to secure employment for the next three years when he will deal with it or for five years, as long as he will do it. If it were an interest to solve cases quickly and things happen quickly, as they would like to, then someone probably wouldn't pile 10 difficult cases on his head and then sigh about how much work he has to do and how much work he needs to wait for things to come out. So far, the court has been in control. The Court knows what it's like, I won't be all in a row again, because not all the judges are bad, sometimes the proceedings run perfectly well, some of them work very hard and work very hard, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u55	Time for the replica is over. You'll still be able to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u56	I'll be done. You are now transferring control to the Board of Trustees because obviously the court is not doing well, and we are back to what we are talking about all the time – what about the courts? Now it's just a question. How many bankruptcy proceedings have ended positively, how many bankruptcys have we been successful in? Very little or nothing. and it is probably this and, above all, therefore, this depends also on who has led the bankruptcy proceedings. I still believe that someone with economic knowledge is a significantly better bankruptcy manager than a lawyer with legal knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. There's still a desire to discuss it. I'm opening an application for discussion. The application shall be made. Four panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u58	President, thank you very much for your word. In particular, I would like to take part in the debate on the amendment of the law that we are talking about today, and in particular the last topic that we are talking about: the functioning of lawyers in bankruptcy proceedings. In part, I agree with Mrs Maša Kociper, a colleague, who spoke about lawyers, that not everyone is bad, not everyone is good enough to exclude one professional group from the possibility of conducting bankruptcy proceedings, but that it is essentially harmful on the one hand. My opinion is very logical. I myself will support the amendment put forward by our Group of Members, particularly in the field of following the practice that has been taking place for the last 20 years. As colleague Alenka Jeraj said before me, practice shows nothing good. Most of the companies, the biggest companies, especially from the region from which I come, the northeast, have experienced a classic total breakdown, erased from the register of justice. So it's the final act of winding down the company. The legislation that we have tried, which is actually very familiar, comes at the very end when most of the companies are sunk, is certainly in place. What are we following today? In particular, we are pursuing matters where those things that were not right are excluded. Why are we talking about the fact that lawyers who are registered as lawyers should not do this? I myself am pursuing the goal of deleting them from the Bar as such, focusing more on economic knowledge, managerial knowledge and then starting major procedures with some practice in companies. That's what matters. Personally, I am also in the position to say that bankruptcy procedures in large companies, which have been international companies for many years on the market, have been very inexplicable by these bankruptcy managers, excuse me, with little experience in the international environment, and they have not been able to conduct these procedures. Above all, they watched or pursued targets where they somehow saw only the price of a particular land, saw the price of a machine, and saw the price of some of the other properties that this company might have had and could have sold off. And they immediately paid themselves out of this purchase first, they paid mainly the state, taxes and everything else, and the workers who created this company did not get anything in the end, and especially the creditors did not get anything. So far, every bankruptcy process has ended in the liquidation of the company. After these 20 years, we finally understand when all of this is eliminated, all of these companies, all of these brands that we have already talked about on the committee today, we are now finally adopting some legislation that is modelled on some of the laws of some of the normal countries that are in our neighbourhood. I have experienced many times myself when I was working in Austria, I came to a company where, let's say, we somehow automated some things. "Yeah, you know, we're in bankruptcy, but that doesn't mean anything, the company works, the workers work, the wages are paid." In fact, the former owners are dispossessing themselves. And this modern - day novel of law is very similar, or it is in some correlation with a so - called bad bank or with a so - called law on bailout through a bad bank. Why? Even in a bad bank, we ran into some kind of obstacle. Because the claims of the bad banks will be resolved by people in the bad bank through the fact that they will dispose of the owners. Why the correlation? Due to the fact that so far the bad owners who bought companies from state banks have bought shares in some companies that had some value on the market, because of different aspects, mostly because of poor decisions, most of the time because they had to pay their own loans because they somehow entered the company without their own capital, they brought the company in despite good services, competitive products into bankruptcy. What was going on? Until now, when they came to bankruptcy, they went to the same bank where they had their comrades, they took credit again, and then they bought from the bankruptcy mass of the land, from the bankruptcy mass of the machinery, they might have taken or brought back certain properties and created a new company and exhausted it again. This practice ends today, at least in part. Not all injustices will be rectified, but we may contribute to some companies to keep some healthy cells in business somehow in place. For such a law, of course, we need quality people who will conduct bankruptcy procedures qualitatively, have practice, have practice mainly from strategic or crisis management and drive these companies to survive. Let me finish. The legislation that we are amending today, and in particular the amendment we have tabled, requires us to amend the law that guarantees all the companies that are somehow in these insolvency proceedings today that they can be saved and that does not mean, as has been the case so far, the final liquidation of the company, but that we are saving the healthy parts of the company. Above all, we are committed in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we want such procedures, particularly those of the more demanding bankruptcy procedures, to be led by people who have practice. Since hypothetically we can only look at something, someone who finishes a law school, who does a judicial exam for a bankruptcy manager, enters a chamber of bankruptcy managers and gets in bankruptcy proceedings some bankruptcy of a major international company, does not, lacks knowledge, lacks in particular the knowledge of how to conduct bankruptcy of one complex technology company, how to say that this cell is healthy, it is not. There's one fine sense of people, you need practice, you need special knowledge that the exam itself does not anticipate. And that's why I'm saying that Slovenian society has to pursue goals, if there's a lawyer, if there's a lawyer, if there's someone who's baking bread, if there's a waiter, let's do the catering and so on. There's no way to generalize. And lawyers lack these skills for complex bankruptcy procedures, I repeat, and they should do their primary work. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. And hello again! My son, in fourth grade, defined politics as something or a place where you say what you think is right. And it sure as hell ain't right to cheat. I will therefore explain the amendment to Article 15 on my own, just as I think it is right. The coalition is proposing an amendment which means that in Company A one person could be a bankruptcy manager or represent this company in judicial or other proceedings, but not both. However, the SDS party proposes that someone cannot obtain permission to function as an administrator if it is entered in the lawyer directory. That is why, Mrs Jeraeva, even if we support the amendment of the coalition, of course, there cannot be cases where the bankruptcy administrator himself issues accounts for legal services. We have 100 active managers, and if, as you suggest, all 36 and 40 decided to become a lawyer, this could jeopardize the smooth course of insolvency proceedings, which are on the rise. I therefore support the coalition proposal for this reason alone, because it is ensured that one person cannot perform two functions. However, since I come from a liberal party, and I feel that restricting both the entrepreneurial initiative and one part of the citizens is not necessary, the work strengthens the person, if enough, thank God, and those who are capable can do more. This seems to me like saying that Members or someone else who is in a working relationship cannot teach in college or in high school or elsewhere. In Article 15, alone, I predict support for the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you. Mrs Hočevareva, because lawyers are not so naive or stupid that I do not use any other term. That's why they have more businesses. One company leads bankruptcy and then lawyers charge their law firm because they don't charge themselves. But if we're very naive, we believe he accidentally hired his law firm to help him break up. That's why they have more businesses, otherwise there would be no logic, but they would do everything with their law firm, do bankruptcy, advise, do accounting business and so on. So they set up bankruptcy managers, look at them, they have all three companies, they have two espies, and then they do things as well as I've described them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u63	Mrs. Alexander Osterman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. As a colleague from the coalition has already said, the practice has shown that bankruptcy procedures are their own purposes, which actually give high profits to bankruptcy managers, lawyers, valuers, and the most damaged are creditors here, because all of them work to exhaust bankruptcy and creditors are left without pay. In any event, Positive Slovenia supports the amendment which gives the Ministry the power to provide legal services to a lawyer appointed as a bankruptcy manager in the same procedure or prohibits him from also acting as a lawyer in the same proceedings, to provide legal services and to conduct proceedings, but to act as a lawyer in another insolvency proceedings. Such a lawyer, acting as bankruptcy manager and as a lawyer in the same bankruptcy procedure, may be revoked by the Ministry for the performance of the insolvency administrator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Our goal should not be to rescue bankruptcy managers, whether they are lawyers or not, but to save companies from coming into their hands and having as little work as possible. You could now start listing companies waiting for disengagement, not the names of bankruptcy managers. The fact is that there is a need for faster restructuring of companies, in particular the preservation of healthy kernels. Therefore, the law on systemic dissipation, which is under preparation, is essential not to see insolvency. It is essentially an out-of-court mechanism, a conversion of claims or a creditor's entry into ownership. Permanent insolvency and bankruptcy must be prevented, as experience so far has not been positive because bankruptcys meant the destruction of healthy kernels and brands. The case of the Pomurka food processing company, where bankruptcy has been ongoing since 2009, is also such in the pomurska area. Of course, it is even sadder that such a company will never be and cannot live again, but above all the brand is destroyed and, of course, the New York NIP is also connected to Pomurka. It was a coincidence that the owner of both known brands was the same. Such and similar cases need to be brought to an end, so early system separation is the most important. However, we will still be stuck after the previous SDK, which has systematically prevented the deterioration of healthy kernels from occurring. Of course, by abolishing the SDK, we have made it possible for the banking sector to earn additional profits, including indirectly the culprit for the failure of businesses, resulting in the write-off of claims on the taxpayer's money account. I support the amendment of the Insolvency Procedures Act, but even more important to me is the Systemic Disengagement Act and thus less work or nothing for bankruptcy managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since there is still a desire to discuss it, I am opening an application for a debate. Anyone else want a word besides Mr. Branisl? No, no, no. Richard Braniselj has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I did not mean to address this subject, but so many incorrect claims, incorrect findings, flat and incorrect ends were also made. What is the essence of bankruptcy? One of the important paradigms is control. And this supervision of bankruptcy managers is exercised by creditors — whether it is a creditor committee or creditors themselves or a bankruptcy Senate, whatever the case. All the documents, all the accounts are posted on the Ipes website. And any of the creditors, we have bankruptcys where there are creditors of five hundred, thousand, and any of these creditors already have the opportunity to monitor and oppose all the actions of the bankruptcy manager. And in the final phase, the Board of Trusts is also watching over the prize. And in fact, it comes to mind to say that bankruptcy managers actually set their own rewards and put their bills on the table and so on. They can bill themselves, but someone approves these accounts. If anything is wrong, then we have these instruments now, and it shouldn't come to that. Above all, we lack a little more care in this country in our own matters. The creditors in bankruptcy are, unfortunately, too passive and leave control and all together to some state authorities who are not in a position to control here. We have a case that I have already mentioned when Mr Cloud, who has established, has forced the trustee's association, with his perseverance, the insistence that we have come to the practical first sentences, that we have identified the first anomalies, and that this group of creditors has in fact become a force even in the event of the awareness of all creditors that they must be more active, that they must be more careful in their affairs. After all, the bankruptcy manager manages their assets and we need to be careful what this bankruptcy manager is doing to us. I have already initially said that this law, which we are considering today, is probably one of the most complicated laws in this country. And as soon as we read it, we understand it, and so on, it takes a lot of effort, knowledge, just to implement it, let alone drive the story of some bankruptcy. And now it comes to thinking about what bankruptcys were the disaster, where the anomalies were, where the irregularities were. This will be said by creditors who were actually involved in these bankruptcys, they have the right to speak which bankruptcys were disasters, irregularities, anomalies and so on. I believe that all those bankruptcys where the bankruptcy manager did something wrong were also sanctioned. Above all, I hope that tomorrow they will be consistently sanctioned. To conclude, just to prevent one group from performing a function, not a profession, a post of bankruptcy manager, I think it's on the verge of constitutionality. And to say that lawyers are already incompetent, they have no knowledge that they are corrupt, corrupt, some may even be fine, but in principle they are all like that, I don't think it's right for the whole profession. And that's actually something I can't think of.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u70	My colleague, Mr Braniselj, encouraged me to discuss this. You know, he's a lawyer, and I understand he's defending his profession in some way or another. But I'm not going to let myself down in this thing anyway. When we talk about Article 15, which refers to bankruptcy managers in one way or another, I was particularly disturbed by the statement that creditors must be careful not to see anything special happening in this procedure. I strongly object to that. We need to make such a system that creditors do not have to be careful, but that the law and the system will ensure that the procedures run by telling them what follows, what follows. If a person does not pay three months' wages, a service, the creditors cannot now be the ones who have to pay attention to it, but the system must ensure that, if this happens, certain procedures fail. And in addition, the system must also provide some security guards that things that my colleagues are about, that I will not waste your precious time after unnecessary, but that many have talked about the affair of Friends in bankruptcy proceedings that have not yet received the final epilogue, and how there are links between the individual structures of judges, bankruptcy managers and so on. Thus it happens that they are connected with judges, managers, that some buyers of this bankruptcy mass are already well known for being privileged. You're going to say, you're having a very general discussion, but this is the kind of thing that hurts us all and we have to look forward to improving them. And that is why I believe that Mr Braniselj will not resent me because this debate has really angered me a little bit and I have come and I have said this, but I must say that it is our duty to make the system work in such a way that it will work, not that someone will have to be constantly careful when the injustice happens to him, that it will not happen to him any more.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u72	I volunteered for the debate. I can't have a replica because he didn't mention me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u73	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u74	But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say briefly that this marriage is going in the right direction. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u75	Mr. Kavtičnik, just a moment, if you can stop, I'm sorry. The priority in the replica is procedural; we must act in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr Richard Braniselj has the replica, but I will give you my word for the debate, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. My colleague Tonin, I think he may have misunderstood my position a little. But this performance or this position that my colleague advocates reminds me of this theory of the Nachtwächter Stadt, this is the so-called state night watcher, the country everywhere, the state keeps an eye on everything and so on. We can agree on that, too, and decide to put in place such a system, but we must say that it costs. It'll cost you. We have said that it must be a lean country, that we must rationalize our jobs, but if we want the country to have its own supervisors at any time, then we will decide and we will introduce this system. I think we've had it before, but I don't think it worked either. The Liberals, however, absolutely reject this system and approach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u77	Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik wants to discuss it. Anyone else? Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, too. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor first and then Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. When I listened to the debaters, I somehow got the impression that we would all support this law and that we all somehow agreed that the law was going in the right direction. However, there will be a lot more to be done in the law, what colleague Möderndorfer said, that the laws and also this law will be such that we ordinary citizens, including those who are not lawyers or lawyers, know what the laws say that the articles will not be so complicated that there will be a need for lawyers, lawyers and other constitutional experts to sit with us. That is why I will support this law myself, but I am in the dilemma of what to do with the amendment tabled by the SDS, mainly because the question is whether it will withstand constitutional judgment. Because to exclude a group of professions or professions from being able to do some work, I don't think constitutionally will hold. Therefore, with a calmer conscience, I will support the bill of the coalition, which does not solve the problem by a hundred percent, but it points in the direction of resolution. It means that, as a Member, I will support an amendment that has no tendency to be constitutionally controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u80	Look, I think if we find out that some things don't work, we don't have to change it and fix it. The examples that we have before us, which we are talking about, I have already said several times that I am not saying that all bankruptcy managers are bad, that lawyers are bad, that they run bankruptcys, and that some have turned out to be taking advantage of the opportunity. Look at the law firms, how they operate, the law offices, we'll say with some normal earnings, and then they become bankruptcy administrators, and they get rich overnight. Don't tell me it's all normal, and that's all right, by not ending up in favor of the creditors. Trustees haven't been paid, we haven't found a healthy core, and in short, it's all gone. I also do not agree with Mr Branisle that creditors themselves have to check what has happened and what has not happened. Yeah, for God's sake, that's why we have experts, and that's why we have a bankruptcy manager who's on the case, so we have a court that's controlling it and getting to know it. It's not necessary for the trustee to know that someone brought it around. That's why we have lawyers and so on. How can one creditor who really doesn't have a clue about the matter act against some bankruptcy manager who's been framed with all the complaints, and if he's a lawyer, and a friend with a judge who's running the case, I think we probably know who's in great advantage in this case. You will recall that we also had cases when, for example, they came from the prosecutions' ranks to the lawyers, and we limited it. Remember Penko's case, directly from a special group of prosecutors investigating SCT, Mr. Zidar, has become a Waller's lawyer. Yes, as long as we tolerate such things, we'll have problems and we won't clear things up. Again, in the 2004-2008 mandate, we limited this to the fact that after only four years, it could go between lawyers or something like that because we found that things were going wrong. With the problems we have, no confidence in the judicial system, such things that we do and obviously do not want to eliminate them, they only increase mistrust. Yes, who will trust this, because sparrows on the roofs are already chirping to arrange for one client's lawyer and another client's lawyer, but once there is no one on the nation, the other there is no one on the roof, and the client pays nicely for us to come to the conclusion of the judgment after a few years. Look, I'm not saying once again that everyone is cheating, that everyone is corrupt, and that everything is wrong. But it turns out that lawyers are taking advantage of these cases. In addition, I have said that there are cases where lawyers have a relationship with their client, they are obliged to remain silent about certain things, they are obliged to work for the benefit of the client, which is not necessarily always in favour of the company they are running the bankruptcy. That's all I'm talking about, and I think we need to get rid of these things. And, as I said, such proposals come from the lawyers, because apparently some small lawyers are only aware that this may also be a problem. I mentioned Mr. Kozintz earlier, or they all attacked him right after. And don't tell me that lawyers don't have anything else to do, that's what they have to do. I don't think by limiting them here, we're going to limit their work. There's a lot of work for lawyers in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc would like to discuss this. Anyone else? No, then Mrs. Romana Tomc and then we continue with the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I also did not intend to include myself because this issue is not really known to me in detail, but with regard to the compatibility and incompatibilities of acting as a bankruptcy manager and as a lawyer, I would like to begin by reading the position of the anti-corruption commission, which states that, with regard to the dilemma, whether a lawyer may be a bankruptcy administrator, that any situation which represents the possibility of a conflict of interest and irreconcilability of functions or work after the Commission's assessment of preventing corruption is a certain risk, therefore it is expected that any such situations would have been prevented before their occurrence or at systemic level, or as was done in the introduction of the incompatibility of the mayoral and mission function. This is said to be a very large dilemma of compatibility or incompatibility. I therefore believe that such a proposal, as proposed by our Group of Members, is highly justified. I agree with colleagues who say, say, colleague Maša Kociper and everyone else with all due respect, especially defending their virtues, are lawyers and, of course, it is logical to stand up for their colleagues and try to show the situation in a better light. Let me say something else from the point of view of the profession itself. I'm an economist by profession, and I understand bankruptcy as some kind of crisis management. The procedure in which highly specialised and in-depth economic knowledge is required and, of course, I advocate, from the point of view of my profession, that bankruptcy managers should be principally economists, who, of course, have sufficient legal knowledge to be able to read the relevant legislation, respect it and lead the process. But first of all, it's an economic situation. The manager has to make an opening balance to begin with; he has to judge the company's claims; he has to be able to manage an undertaking, which requires in-depth economic knowledge. Lawyers also have the right exams to enable them to do so, but I'm sure you'll agree with me that some exam, whatever it is, can't just replace some knowledge that we economists, say, have been collecting through colleges for years. From this point of view, I also wonder why to prefer the legal profession to such an extent compared to the economic profession. I do not agree with any other indication that it is a matter of restricting the possibility of a profession to participate in this process. It's probably not some very thorough legal basis, but I do separate a lawyer and a lawyer. A lawyer is something else than a lawyer. Of course, it is a question of whether lawyers can conduct bankruptcy proceedings, not lawyers with their legal knowledge. The dilemmas are many, they are serious, they are supported not only, after all, not only by what we think in the SDS party, but also by a number of representatives of the professional public expressed these dilemmas, not least, by the anti-corruption commission, to which colleagues, when appropriate, are very keen to swear. I therefore advocate that we remove all potential opportunities for such a situation as we have been trained so far, and that the use of bankruptcy at the expense of the richness of those who run bankruptcy procedures should be guided in a way that protects creditors in order to protect the assets – what is left of them – in order to protect their interests in the first place and to ensure that they are paid richly and in a timely manner, which remains with someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. There's still a desire to discuss it. I'll open up an opportunity to apply for a debate. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, now has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are assessing that a regime which would completely prohibit managers, who are also lawyers, from performing the management function, would at this moment constitute an important obstacle to the functioning of the judicial system. In fact, taking into account the fact that bankruptcy proceedings are on the rise, without appropriate transitional arrangements, we would assess such a prohibition, if I may call it, would lead to new slowdowns, but the novelty's main objective is to accelerate the implementation of bankruptcy procedures. I would also like to say that, as the debate has repeatedly pointed out, the problem is that managers are running more demanding bankruptcy procedures at the same time. In this regard, it may also be recalled that such proposed exclusion of lawyers is likely to lead to more insolvency proceedings at the same time. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Because it was a wish, you have a replica of Mrs. Romana Tomc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. You know, I could go to the debate, too. But just what the Secretary of State has just warned me about, I might be able to supplement myself, and I'm taking advantage of this replica. Are we wondering why there are only 99 bankruptcy administrators – as I read here in the public media – and of this is, say, more than half or half of the lawyers, if I understand? Is it also possible to ask ourselves whether other stakeholders are interested in participating in these profits at the same time and at the same time with these fabulous profits arising from the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings? And as a result, is this not a case of protecting a narrow circle of people who want to maintain a monopoly in conducting bankruptcy proceedings? I am sure that in Slovenia, with all the economists, with all the lawyers, there are very many capable, talented and interested lawyers and economists who would be happy to conduct these procedures, and the system, as it is, makes it impossible for them to enter this game. I see this area, as well as in many other areas, that it is some kind of restriction of competition, a soft restriction of competition. It is probably supported by the rules so that it is not legally possible to prove this, but we know that the rules are something, then implementation in practice is something else. Just being able to make so much money here that the bankruptcy managers are so few, it brings me to such conclusions. This space is limited, this space is protected and it is well defended by those in it before the entry of new competition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for debate. Four panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr Joseph Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Restricting competition or limiting employment or the conduct and conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, I think there is knowledge in particular here. People with specific knowledge may apply or become bankruptcy managers. There can also be economists, there are lawyers and so on. True, we may have made these laws a little complicated to get to know our marriages or all these legal procedures because they are written in most cases. Here, too, in the National Assembly, we often encounter certain laws when we need a translator along with us to know what a article really means. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to review certain laws in order to make them so that people can read them, so that we can understand them and make them transparent. In all of this, work, and not only bankruptcy procedures, but also honesty is important. You know, however we turn around and say or limit certain professions to do a job, we'll say that because they're dishonest — others can come! So that economists can also connect, including coaches, teachers and so on, and they can connect and do something for themselves if they are not honest. We must conclude from the fact that we must appoint people to such places or give them an opportunity that is fair. Those who are not honest should be prevented from doing certain or any work. Therefore, this transparency, control and opportunity, including what Braniselj said, is important, the possibility that creditors can also influence and give their opinions on how something is done in this case. This is important: transparency, control, and above all honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. My debate will not be professional, but one illogicality was previously expressed by a colleague. In fact, it compares with the incompatibilities of the mayor's and the MP's functions. It is a matter of running functions and these functions are not linked to education, but here we discriminate against lawyers who are tied to a profession and this does not seem to be justified. If we were to talk about the fact that a Member should not be a teacher or that the Mayor should not be – say, what I know – a trader, then I would accept it, but I do not accept this explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u91	Here you go, Mrs. Tomc, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'll just explain. I've read the position of the anti-corruption commission. This is not my opinion, this is an opinion issued by the anti-corruption commission. Just so we're clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll be very brief. In Novi Slovenija we advocate that the bankruptcy manager or that the lawyer should not also be a bankruptcy manager. Why? Since any other commercial activity is incompatible with the performance of the lawyer, which is the work of the bankruptcy manager, it is also very profitable. I'm just telling you a case. If you open espas or parts and register the activity insurance representation today, this may be the only activity you register. You must not have any other activity if you open such espa I speak from experience. Interesting, isn't it? Insurance representation! What's that compared to a lawyer's job?? Moreover, as the former President of the Lawyers' Chamber has said many times today – and I agree – – with the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission and other things that the former President of the Bar and, of course, today his statement does not like the current leadership of the Lawyers' Chamber, this is Mr Miha Kozinc, who also pointed out that lawyers have a constitutional position, like judges, prosecutors and lawyers. Above all, in my decision-making, I am somehow relying on the fact that the legal activity, the legal mission, will also say in the constitution, must not be linked to any other commercial activity. Therefore, in New Slovenia we believe that this activity must be completely separate. So a lawyer must not be a bankruptcy manager. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you. Actually, I didn't mean to call, but I'm still calling because I think we're back to where we've been. Rather, it is possible to accept today such an amendment, which will be essentially unconstitutional. I do not advocate lawyers, and in many ways I agree, and I also understand the intention of the proposed amendment, this is the SDS parties, because in fact this practice, which we have had in the country so far, was particularly bad because individuals did not work as they should, as well as the courts, both the bankruptcy Senate and the creditor committees did not perform their functions. But here is some deviation in the field of control. However, I believe, dear colleague Tomc, that the message of the anti-corruption commission must be understood in the sense that anti-corruption risks or corruption risks must be addressed. But this is not a way to ban some professional group from performing certain tasks, but by limiting these possibilities in other ways. Therefore, it seems to me that this amendment, which we have made, is a reasonable compromise, which in some ways eliminates the error so far, and on the other hand does not prohibit certain professional groups, which may be really unconstitutional, to carry out a particular profession. And one more thing. This comparison between Members, Mayors and so on. I think we're on slippery ground here, because this is about mixing executive and legislative power. We know that this was because the mayors were essentially executive in the municipalities and when they were sitting in Parliament, they passed laws. Logically, they could also have influenced what laws would be, which could potentially be useful in the operation of congregations. With this, it seems to me that this is not exactly a happy comparison, and I think it is right that we have adopted this decision on incompatibility. For it is a matter of mixing, once again, the legislative and executive authorities. We Members can't be judges either, we can't be judges, as you know, we can't be economic operators either. While in other professions, I think that such enlargement or some ban on working for whole professional groups may indeed be constitutionally controversial. It therefore seems to me that there is a reasonable compromise to be found here, to break with this practice, which is not good, but, on the other hand, to stress in particular that better supervision is needed in the execution of these bankruptcy procedures as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomc has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u98	A debate, may I?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u99	A debate? Anybody else want to discuss this? Then Mrs Romana Tomc, then Mr Richard Braniselj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u100	I would point out once again that I separate a lawyer as an activity as an economic activity and challenge the incompatibilities of a lawyer as an activity with a bankruptcy management. And I don't challenge or expel any lawyers that I treat as a lawyer. Of course, absolutely! Lawyers, economists, anyone who by their knowledge proves that they have the ability to conduct bankruptcy procedures can be a bankruptcy manager, but I find it problematic to mix the activities of a lawyer as an economic activity with another activity, that is to say a bankruptcy management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Braniselle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u102	I, too, object to the compatibility of legal activity with the execution of the bankruptcy manager, but in this particular bankruptcy procedure, not at all, but at all. The bankruptcy manager is not an activity, but a function. Whoever the bankruptcy manager is is appointed to this function, which is not said to be appointed to another when it comes to his turn. It's not a permanent matter, but when you get to court, it's a key to it. A colleague mentioned earlier, I think a colleague of Jerai's, that when I talk about the control that creditors should be doing themselves, she said somehow, "What do creditors know about whether someone cheated them or not?" You know, we're talking about creditors, which are corporations, which are economic companies, which are espouses, which are some entity that enters the market and is considered to be carrying out this activity with some care of a good economic operator. I suppose all these creditors know about it, but they know more than anything when they've been cheated. But it's up to us, I'm talking about specific cases, and it's up to us to create a law that will give them even more opportunities for this control, and here we have it with this novel. Trustees will not only be able to control everything, but they will also have an important leverage, and this is that they will be able to replace the bankruptcy manager that they have not so far. This is the good news that this marriage brings. Secondly, what I am going to support is that lawyers in bankruptcy proceedings, which at the same time are managers, are no longer able to perform the task of lawyer for the same bankruptcy debtor. Depends on the entrance. The entry between bankruptcy managers is not even that complicated. Whoever can run is, of course, a very demanding exam. The condition is that he is not punished and is worthy of public trust. Anyone in this country may run for this function and may also be entered in the directory of bankruptcy managers. Of course, it is of interest for all of us to be the best here who will really perform this function, as it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the debate on the set of amendments. We are moving on to the next amendment, moving on to Article 29 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? If not, am I closing the debate with the put-in representative of the government wants a word? [[...]] Here you are, Ms. Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that we support the amendment of the Group of Members. This is an amendment that eliminates editorial inconsistencies resulting from the adoption of the amendment on the home working body. As we say, we support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We turn to the 70th Article and the amendment tabled to this Article by the members of the positive Slovenia Group, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 70 and the amendment tabled. This also concludes the debate on this bill and amendments tabled. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at 17.25. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members, welcome back! You have before you the proposal for a amendment to the Law on Criminal Procedure, in respect of which a second hearing was held at the previous meeting. The amendments of the committee responsible were then removed from the proposed amendment with regard to the digital record and the direct transmission of the main hearings, which were not previously coordinated with the professional public or with state prosecutors, judges and lawyers to whom the provisions specifically relate. Thus, the proposal for a novelty, which is ready for third treatment and is before you, contains only minor amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which are in line with the competent authorities. The minor changes described are intended primarily to strengthen the effectiveness of the criminal procedure. In this regard, I refer in particular to provisions which constitute administrative burdens for the police and also for the State Prosecutor's Office in the conduct of complaints and in the implementation of certain investigative measures. The amendments are also intended to strengthen legal certainty. This is mainly a matter of correcting technical or editorial shortcomings in the legislative text, correcting inconsistencies in certain procedural institutions and making less difficult substantive improvements to individual legal provisions. Such are, for example, more specific provisions regarding the proposed and decision-making of detention and the revision of provisions relating to international legal aid procedures which have been systemically modified and modernised by the previous amendment. Let me also point out the changes in the cost of the procedure, in which the proposal will also include the cost of storing, managing and destroying seized items. This means that, in the case of the final judgment, they will no longer be borne by the State but by the convict, which is also correct, since all these costs are the result of the crime committed. To sum up: the proposal for the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, the novel L, therefore, does not contain major systemic changes and does not introduce new legal institutions, but builds and refines existing solutions or adapts them to new knowledge and defines them more precisely where necessary. In fact, there are a number of different solutions that are not directly related to each other, which, according to our assessment, are necessary to improve the efficiency of the functioning of national authorities and to strengthen legal certainty, and consequently to ensure a higher level of respect for the rule of law. In view of the above, I propose that you accept the draft amendment in the third reading. Before I thank you for your word, I'd like to say that. Despite my previous implementation of less important editorial corrections, however, as you have probably listened and heard, because we regulate and define detention where necessary, perhaps this novel is not so insignificant. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed novel of the CAP has experienced considerable devastation through the procedure in the National Assembly from its first reading to today's third reading. Although the Minister who submitted the amendment to the legislative procedure remained in place by appointing the new government, there have already been changes in the second reading of the law on the home working body in terms of deleting the proposed articles. We are a little surprised and concerned by the fact that the Minister proposes a marriage, stands behind him and defends him, and then turns his position overnight, along with professional arguments on his head. We hope that this will not become a practice, as this does not in any way contribute to legal certainty. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we had the greatest concerns and dilemmas about the direct transfer of the main hearings, since the courtroom is the place where human rights and duties are most fundamentally affected in the individual's personal integrity and dignity. In our opinion, the participants in the trials are already sufficiently marked, especially if their innocence is later proved. After all, our task is to adopt responsible laws, not to write a script for the most viewed reality TV show in Slovenia. Since we are adopting the law today in the third reading and because there have already been a lot of opinions and reflections in this place, we would like to express in today's position the Slovenian People's Party's Group's Parliament's view that, in the spirit of recent events of absurdities and errors of the judicial system, which we have been accompanying for several years, it should approach the full reform of the Criminal Procedure Act or criminal legislation at all, as it has recently proved to be extremely ludicrous, as many and many people have found their way through the holes of our legislation. For our citizens deserve a safe, legal and just state, not a country designated by foreign prisoners as a judicial oasis and a desire to reopen the procedure in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act will be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat has the floor of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All Members and Members of Parliament and, of course, the Secretary of State with a co-worker are warmly welcomed again! We discussed the content or solutions of the Law on Criminal Procedure in much detail both at first and second reading. At this third reading, we will confirm the law and in the DeSUS Group we will place our votes in favour of its support, as well as amendments to the coalition. As the majority of the parliamentary groups, we have also opposed the replacement of the classic record by digital recording and the introduction of direct transmission of the main readings. Since we have succeeded in amending the law in the legislative process by remaining in force with regard to this existing situation, we have no further reservations to the draft law in our parliamentary group. According to our assessment, this novelty brings some improvements in the criminal process with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of the criminal procedure by removing administrative barriers and increasing legal certainty by addressing inconsistencies and editorial shortcomings. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that an effective criminal procedure is one of the grounds why the plea on the rule of law and the rule of law is held firmly. That there is something wrong with our handling of criminal matters, more than apparently everything shows too often the conclusions of media-response processes. However, if there are convictions in these cases and they are also imposing legal penalties, it is a penalty for convicts to commit a delict against life and body, economic delinquency or any other crime, literally in ridicule of those who live fairly and according to the rules of not only positive law, but also in accordance with ethical standards and principles. So also material criminal law, according to our assessment, and we find that this is what most Slovenian people think it is not properly regulated. The latest disappearance of convict Hilda But it really is a drop over the edge as to the situation in our justice system. If there is no appropriate and effective action in this area immediately, then this is a moment of glory from the rule of law and a just state. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the attitude towards people, to trust in law, justice, the rule of law and law enforcement and justice is built on the entire legislation, namely material and procedural, and, more importantly, on the effective and fair functioning of the competent authorities. Therefore, Members and Members of the DeSUS invite the competent authorities not only to approach cosmetic corrections, but also to undertake a substantive and comprehensive reform of criminal law, as well as to amend the system of action of all competent authorities involved in criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! The Law on Criminal Procedure, which we have before us, introduces only some technical solutions in order to achieve greater effectiveness in criminal proceedings and to address editorial shortcomings and inconsistencies in the current law. These cosmetic adjustments, however, can ensure the internal consistency of existing legislation. In New Slovenia, in principle, we are not inclined to constantly amend legislation, in particular because of minor amendments to laws. This is a way that hinders law enforcement rather than removes obstacles. In the view of New Slovenia, all the labour and efficiency indicators in the courts require completely new basic procedural legislation in the criminal field. We advocate the introduction of a transfer of the judicial investigation of the courts to the State Prosecutor's Office. This will not only bring about the unloading of the courts, but also the elimination of unnecessary duplication of the implementation of the evidence in the trial itself, once in the investigation and twice in the main proceedings, and consequently a faster and cheaper trial. Current media-reflective processes, such as the Balkan Warrior, require concrete legislative solutions regarding the recognition of evidence collected in foreign countries. These solutions are not regulated by this amendment to the law. In the opinion of Nova Slovenije, it will be necessary to overcome the legal formalism that predominates our criminal process as well as material legislation, and in particular its implementation in practice. The courts, instead of the content, deal solely with the proceedings and procedural rights of accused persons. There is always such or other error either in collecting evidence from our or foreign investigative authorities or in the indictments and in the courts they triumphantly step away from the accused with a number of unequivocal, burdensome evidence of the most serious crimes. These process cauldrons are in more than obvious disassociation with the very purpose for which these fuses were defined in procedural legislation. The reference of our courts to high evidentiary standards for the protection of the rights of defendants, which, by the way, is higher than in the countries of advanced democracy, has led us to become a haven for criminals and we have no confidence in the rule of law anymore. New legislative solutions will also be needed in the area of measures to ensure the presence of accused persons in criminal proceedings. Above all, new solutions require grounds for detention, in particular for the worst crimes and, of course, the current media most resilient event in relation to the removal of detention and the escape of the accused shows that much more needs to be done in the area of the responsibility of individual participants in the criminal procedure for the legality of decisions. We expect concrete measures against all those prosecutors and judges who, by their irregular, irregular, or illegal work or the dismissal of their duties, have made it possible to release a person who has been legally sentenced to prison. Ladies and gentlemen, today's responsibility must also have a name and surname. At least by the end of this year, we expect new, improvements, more modern and, above all, more comparable criminal procedural legislation to other European legislation. Obviously, we will be through a lot of water by then, so we estimate that it makes sense, nevertheless, to adopt the proposed solutions in this amendment to the law. Members of the New Slovenia Group We support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u114	Your Honor! As this is a matter for consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Third Reading Criminal Procedure Act, when presenting the position of Positive Slovenia, I will not discuss the general state of the rule of law and the latest current events which have nothing to do with this novel. Indeed, in this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, it is really only about minor corrections and within the established framework, which amend, supplement and divide individual legal provisions. However, they remove some administrative obstacles to the functioning of police officers and prosecutors. Although some new solutions have been put into this amendment in previous cases, let me say, the law was being prepared at the time of the previous government's operation. These solutions concerned, in particular, the introduction of a digital record and, consequently, the abolition of the classical record and the possibilities of a visual, audio and other recording of the main proceedings, three possibilities which would allow for better public control of the work of the court in the main proceedings. Since these solutions, as we all know, have been extensively discussed, have not been properly coordinated with the third branch of the Authority, that is, the judiciary, nor with the professional public, has the coalition decided in the second reading not to support these changes. Both the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Justice as well as the State Defence and the Society of Judges and, as the rest of the professional organisations have said, the solutions have been rejected as being insufficiently pretentious and not sufficiently written down, which could in practice constitute new problems and new delays in the conduct of criminal proceedings. Otherwise, of course, even in Positive Slovenia, we are aware of the current problems brought by today's legislation and faced with our justice. In this respect, as you know, legislative changes are being prepared in the field of the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service and more broadly on what they can do in terms of better supervision of the work of justice, we will speak in Positive Slovenia in addressing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Eva Irgle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that this law will lead at least a little towards improving the state of justice, although some amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party have not been taken into account, which in our opinion would make the procedures in justice more transparent and transparent. The Criminal Procedure Act was last amended in November 2011. However, the proposal for a law on additions and amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which we have today in the third reading, does not constitute a comprehensive reform as we would like in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, but introduces some substantial positive changes that will increase or increase the effectiveness of the criminal procedure and strengthen legal certainty by correcting shortcomings in the legislative text and removing certain administrative obstacles to the work of police and prosecutors. However, when considering this new law on criminal procedure in third reading, we cannot avoid the most up-to-date case, Hilda's escape, however, which casts not only a shadow on the functioning and effectiveness of justice, but further deepens the public's lack of confidence in the rule of law and the impartiality of the judicial system. What has happened is directly shocking and unacceptable and requires immediate public responses to the incredible conduct of the courts and the prosecution. But they also need to clarify the background to whom it actually suited that Hilda would not talk about other tycoons and affairs and political botts. So did they allow her to disappear because in a court where she was in multiple criminal proceedings, she spoke too much and some were afraid that she might say too much? Of course, we cannot say this with certainty, but we can say that the disappearance was no accident. And more than that, 150 sheets have disappeared from Hilda's criminal record. That's a real joke from all of us. The state of the court is no longer just worrying, but rather alarming. We're having conflicts of interest, for example, with bankruptcy administrators who worked in the midst of justice at garden parties, and elsewhere. We are faced with a Balkan warrior when we do not take into account the evidence, because we have a body of higher human rights standards in this country. As a result of these higher standards, today, those involved in this affair are demanding EUR 300,000 from the country to stop the pain. A first-class joke from all of us! We are faced with a series of other resounding cases of economic crime, which often come to an end, if ever, with very strange conclusions. And it is not the last time we have politically motivated processes, where procedures last and continue for several years, where, with the aim of weakening the political rival, these procedures are drawn from one election to the next. We have been warning this fact in the Slovenian Democratic Party for many years. We point out that the entities in justice must finally assume their part of the responsibility. In all these cases, which I have listed, no one has ever accepted any responsibility. We should have! However, we, who have always pointed out this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, have come across the evidence that we are interfering with the independence of the third branch of government, even though we require only effective justice and justice for all. We therefore demand a court in which citizens and citizens will not feel that it is politically biased and that it is not responsible for the mistakes made. A commitment is needed for all entities in the justice system to commit themselves to common needs and measures for the functioning of the rule of law. This commitment must come from the judiciary itself, because this is the only way to move forward towards raising confidence in the justice system. This one's on zero today. The case of Hilda Tobut, the case of the Balkan warrior, a number of other cases where those who demanded justice ended up without legal and human satisfaction, those who committed the crime remained unpunished or the case was outdated, showing inefficiency, incompetence and most likely also corruption of Slovenian justice. That is also true of the fact that, even in cases such as disappearance or escape, the defector Hilda However, none of the people in the competent and high responsibilities of the judiciary accept any responsibility. Attorney-General Zvonko Fischer, even on the question whether he intends to step down because of an unacceptable error, arrogantly declares: "Why?" Yes, why, Mr. Fisher, why? Mr Aleš Zalar, former Minister of Justice, stated yesterday at Odessa yesterday, with such incomprehensible conduct by the judiciary and the prosecution, that in this case it is only a serious setback. So we call these things slips, and no one gets hurt, and in similar cases, those responsible offer an immediate withdrawal. A few years ago, when a pedophile Dutroux escaped from court in Belgium, three ministers and some other judicial officials withdrew within two hours. Most of them because of their objective responsibility — but with us, as if nothing had happened. It seems that this country is protecting criminals, protecting drug traffickers, protecting those who have property in tax havens and a bunch of postal collectors. This country is obviously protecting those who have stolen our common property. Total assets! Obviously, they will never be responsible for what they have done before the judicial authorities. Instead of protecting those who demand only what is rightfully theirs — and nothing else. The draft law before us shows that the comments of scientific and professional institutions have been taken into account to the extent that the basic purpose of the law and the objectives set by the applicant are not compromised. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we regret the fact that in the second reading, the amendments were rejected, with which we wanted to return the possibility of sound and visual recording and the transmission of the main readings and replace the classical record of the digital main treatment, as was the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act prepared by the Government of Janez Janša. The possibility of audio and video recording and transmission of main readings would be set up as follows: direct transmission of information by means of written messages using telecommunications means; video and audio recording without direct transmission; and video and audio recording by direct transmission. The courts are public authorities and there is no reason for their operation not to be directly exposed to the public, even in those cases which are open to the public or are interesting to the public, as the cases mentioned above have already been mentioned. In the context of the proposal to replace the classical memorandum of principal treatment with digital clients, it would be possible to play and obtain a copy of the footage from the Court's information system. Such a change would, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, be indispensable in order to accelerate the functioning of judicial proceedings while ensuring that the guarantee of the rights of the parties before the courts will not be reduced. With both of the above proposals, which the current coalition, unfortunately, deleted in the second reading, would have made court hearings faster, without unnecessary breaks due to the order of the judge of the contents of the minutes, and audio and graphic records would have been authentic and accurate evidence of the events between the courts, both in the interests of the accused and the prosecutors, the judges and the public at large. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the solutions to the law, which provide for a special speedy treatment of crimes against economic crime. We also hope that there will then be some final impact, which cannot be addressed rationally, in the light of the situation that Slovenia is in today. In doing so, we hope that it will not only be written down in the law and will also be realized by the courts or law enforcement authorities. We are also in favour of the solution, as we have pointed out so far in the consideration of the law, that the injured party should, in accordance with the proposal, cover the costs of the criminal procedure that began on his proposal, but only if, after the main hearing, he withdrew the proposal. In practice, all too often there are cases where an injured person in the police force clearly declares that the act is merely for the sake of facilitating the enforcement of claims. In such cases, the injured person is often not interested in any further prosecution of the crime and later withdraws the prosecution proposal from the State Prosecutor and, consequently, the police must carry out all the offences related to the crime reported. Both police and prosecutorial experience have shown a very large number of withdrawals of proposals by injured persons in later stages of proceedings, and the handling of such cases needlessly burdens public authorities and consequently the budget. Marriage also brings many other good solutions. The financial impact of the proposed law will be positive, given that it introduces new costs of criminal proceedings. The costs of criminal proceedings include the costs of seizure, seizure, storage, sale and destruction of seized or confiscated items. In view of everything I have said, we will support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. However, we will closely follow its implementation and, above all, the work of the judiciary in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u118	Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act has been in the legislative process since January of this year. At that time, the original text of the proposed amendment of the law was substantially changed in the legislative process itself. We have received negative opinions from the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, the Slovenian Judicial Association until we have been examined on the working body. With the amendments adopted on the home working body, we have deleted from the text of the proposed law those provisions which we have specifically highlighted in the general debate and stressed that they are unacceptable to the Group of Social Democrats. We have estimated that, according to the news concerning, for example, the possibilities of visual and audio recording and transmission of the main readings, and at the end of the classical record and some other important solutions, which I will not mention again, that the professional public should first be identified. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support all those solutions that go towards removing administrative obstacles and decommissioning of police officers, criminals and state prosecutors. Perhaps I would touch further on the introductory words in the proposed bill to prepare large-scale substantive and systemic changes. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are not inclined to continue to interfere with the laws, especially those relating to the judiciary, because we all find that we do not contribute to the faster and better work of the judiciary as a result of multiple interventions into legal matter. Let me conclude, in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I would not like to lose words about Mrs Hilda Butt, which, by the way, has been set up by politics. However, it is extremely important that Minister Plitchanič and Virant do everything necessary in their departments to ensure that something like this will never happen again in this country. If I go back to the subject, we're talking about the Criminal Procedure Act, which I expect we'll adopt today. The Civil Code announces its support. The significance of criminal proceedings is not that they will be convicted criminals, but that innocent people will not be convicted. The original version of this law, which we have coordinated and made known to it at the time of the former coalition, has been correct and has in fact brought only a few very important changes in the direction of rationalisation and the economy of the process. However, after our departure from the coalition, the original version of the changes was followed by amendments that we cannot agree with in the Civil Gazette, but also opposed by the entire professional public. The original proposal did not contain the end of the classical record or the end of the classical record, nor did it contain the proposed options for visual and audio recording and transmission of the main readings. Such reckless interventions, however, constitute further serious problems in practice. However, the greatest added value of this novelty is the cost-effectiveness of procedures in so-called wealth-based crime. It is a minor offence, which is pursued only on the proposal of the injured person. If the injured party fails to submit the proposal, this means that the procedural assumptions for the continuation of prosecution by the police and the prosecution have not been met. Thus, after the amendment of the law, it will no longer be necessary to bring proceedings before the prosecution, nor will it be necessary for the police or the prosecution to do so. Thus, the law enforcement authorities will have more time to deal with other worse forms of crime, where it is imperative to improve the effectiveness not only of detection and prosecution but also of trials. What does this removal of administrative barriers mean in practice — if we say so? This means that the injured person will come to the police station for the so-called bountiful crime, will file an application for this because it is necessary because of the insurance company or because he wishes to expose the matter, but will explicitly point out that he does not want to be prosecuted. Now the matter will be concluded by making a record and for the sake of knowledge the matter will be sent to the Prosecutor's Office. According to current practice, this means that a record must be drawn up, then the matter must be investigated, all the facts and circumstances necessary must be collected and the report must be written, a special report to the prosecution, which the Prosecutor must then deal with in particular. We know that this is an anomaly, and this legal novelty brings a substantial, substantial burden on criminal proceedings, and the police and the prosecution will not have to deal with crimes for which even the injured person does not want the authorities to deal. On the other hand, we want to, and this is something to be pointed out: both the police and the prosecution, as well as the national investigative authorities and ultimately the courts, are the major debtors of this country to improve the investigation and the trial process of the worst crimes, this is organised crime, economic crime and all the other classical forms of worse crime in a way that we will live safely in this country, not only that we will feel safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Government or representatives of the Government, Members and Members! With my debate, I do not wish to pour oil on the fire of the indignation of the Slovenian public because of recent events, but I would like to use the third reading to reflect on how important it seems to me that a country which has a constitutional presumption of innocence to the sentence of final judgment that a country that has been able to give proportionate thought to judgements and penalties does not succumb to temptation and should probably do so as Sweden does, even when a country regrets a number of victims, that it does not comply with these requirements after the re-impositioning of the death penalty or something like that. Therefore, I believe that any amendment to legislation that relates either to the Penal Code or to criminal proceedings, as in this case, is not entirely applicable to the place of specific events and changes legislation that later turns out to be insufficient to protect human rights, the correctness of the procedure, because it is also essential in the case of judicial practice that when we pour bile on others, we recognize that we are not entirely innocent as regards the complexity of the proceedings. Here, in the case of so-called diametrically opposed to the possibility of recording or transferring criminal proceedings from the courtrooms, we forget that probably the interested public could not apply this possibility even after the previous proposal if the participants did not give permission to record and transfer. We're forgetting that. And if we now think that those who are accused of the worst crimes would simply open up the possibilities for transfers, I am sure we are very wrong. And that's what you have to say. I am in favour of the fact that this novel has now focused only on the most urgent corrections, especially because it did not have the support of the professional public and because it was also not respected what we call the provisions of the Resolution on Regulatory Action, so that everything must be harmonised with all stakeholders before it comes into law. I wish that in our country legal certainty was inviolable to propose that legislation be more effectively taken into account, because I think that it is not always only in the legislation, but in fact that we are failing in the enforcement of legislation. I'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has a word to prepare for him. Ivan Vogrin, then Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Of course, the law has support for me. But I want to remind you how long it takes for us to get something into our lives. It has been more than a year since I held a press conference at the interior ministry in the role of Minister of the Interior, and I have talked about police being overburdened, and I have shown that remarkable pastime. That's when Minister Plitschnik and I started talking about what we're going to change in the Criminal Procedure Act and what we're not going to do, and the product before us today is actually the result of that. In this law, we have actually succeeded with the Ministry of Justice in introducing those things that are urgently needed to relieve the work of both prosecutors and police officers. If I make it much easier, I can say that some police procedures for rich crimes are the same as murder. So someone comes to report a theft of pâté, like I said then, and someone comes to report a murder, and if I do a little bit of banalizing, the procedures for both cases are the same; the same number of forms and I don't know what the cop has to fill out. However, we also have crimes that are not reported by injured persons in order to investigate, but with the aim of regulating matters at insurance companies, and they say in advance that they are not interested in anything else. All of these cases are now regulated in this law on criminal procedure and I am glad that this is because it will mean great but really great administrative burdens for prosecutors and police officers. The prosecutors and the police would probably want more of these administrative burdens, but that was some of the optimism we achieved. Now let me get back to what was deleted on the committee. On the committee, the amendment coalition deleted this recording and deleted the records in physical, written form. I've heard quite a few references from the coalition, and the predecessor has talked about it, but if it's not in line with justice, it's not in line with the judiciary. Yeah, well, you know, if we continue to coordinate with the judicial branch of power, we will remain in the 18th century. And writing records — those who were in the courts know exactly how this is happening — is the system of the 18th century, when they had typewriters. But we've had computers for quite some time. We have another technique that allows recording, and why does someone have to dictate the record, but orders 500 pages of the minutes, someone writes 500 pages of the minutes, so that at that time all those who are in the hall are waiting, because the judge is ordering, but if we can put it all together on one key or one CD and it's available to everyone. But the joke now is that the coalition has apparently abandoned the judicial branch of power and says that because it is not aligned with them. Look, if we can keep things in line with them for a long time, it'll be too late. The time we live, but I am talking about these latest things around Toběvo's escape, very clearly reminds us of a few things. Look at the court's statements. Look at the D.A.'s statements. The prosecution says it is not foreseen – the prosecutor turns his eyes, so there is something on television that you can see, nods his head, slanders the journalist, and says that even if Mr Furlan's fault was not foreseen, there is no sanction. There are no sanctions! But this same prosecutor throws a prosecutor across the door from Slovenj Gradz, who warned of mistakes in her own kind! I'm talking about a Coroner girl's case. That's where the door showed her! And he's on the road in a few days. But in this case, there's nothing wrong! But if something was wrong, which we're just going to figure out from the crow system, "the crows don't turn off their eyes," there's nothing supposed to happen. This is the system we have. With a few sentences, I'll just be a little bit wider. [[...]] There's nothing else in the courts. It's absolutely no different! Let me remind you of what has already been said this morning, the case of a bankruptcy judge from Krske, who is mistaken for 150 000 euros in tax money and pays the bankruptcy manager. Nothing, no sanctions! See, as long as we coordinate with them a little bit, such as writing records and directing minutes, which can contribute 50% to faster court proceedings, to quicker court proceedings, because the sound will be recorded instead of saying, "Wait a minute to order the minutes," and then the trial will last 50% further. But it is not appropriate for us to let them down in such matters! And once again, the time we live – and I have the feeling that there is some similar thinking in the coalition and in the government, including in Gregorčič, if there is now that famous meeting – that it is time for action. Time for action within the meaning of the new Criminal Procedure Act and if we coordinate with them, ladies and gentlemen, we will never harmonise it! Just as we haven't aligned the KZ with them in years, I don't know which one already, 2008. We will never harmonise it because they will only want to write those records, they will want to not know what everything is because they want to keep the number of judges we have, as you know, according to the latest data from the European Union far and far. More than 2003, when German Judge Dukoff attacked us, who said we had 50% more than the Germans. With so much backlogs. Gentlemen, I know it's time for a new law on criminal procedure, which I am deeply convinced of. If we coordinate with them, with the judiciary, we'll be on the same page. I do not say that it does not need to be coordinated, of course it must be coordinated! It's just that we have our own head, as it's called. For the past few days, it seems to me that we do not have any major problems with the relationship between the coalition and the opposition, some of which have already been the case. I wish that would be the case in the future. The theory that they know the authorities because they are equal to us must not be affected – if this theory is true, then the judges must not condemn us. That's not true! They are an independent branch of power to judge. But we are an independent branch of government to prescribe laws by which they will be judged. In terms of law-making, we are above them, but of course they are all-powerful in terms of trial; and it is also true that this is the case. When, though, does a judge come to the National Assembly and coordinate with us about the height of the punishment? He doesn't have to, because he's an independent branch of power. Thus, we are also a separate branch of power within the meaning of the regulation that we adopt. The Criminal Procedure Act is in our hands and not in theirs. They can express their opinions and nothing else. An intervention in the law on criminal procedure, not an intervention, a new law on criminal procedure, as far as I know, has been preparing for two, three years, for example, is a necessity. For me, this would be one of the first priorities that the Ministry should prepare and without any major coordination with them to give its opinion, we will do our part: to adopt the Criminal Procedure Act, which will be better, faster, which will be more European, which will end the judicial investigation, transfer it to the prosecutors, give the police a more valid law if you want, in the pre-trial procedure and so on. That'll get us on the right track. But if we could make it through that step that I don't know when we're going to have – but once we will, you know – it's an intervention into the constitution. Intervention into the Constitution of 60 Members, which will also make the situation slightly different in the field of justice and, above all, which will establish responsibility there. I'm not going to talk about a permanent term, I'm not going to use it, and I'm going to basically end a permanent term, and I'm going to give it up after a certain period of time, not the first day of work, and the first minute of work, that you're guaranteed until you're 65. Last but not least, at the university, we know exactly when someone becomes a regular professor, there is a lot to be done before, a system that would lead judges down this path to a permanent term, but could be different. Above all, the question is, I'll say, the functioning of the courts. Let me remind you, I spoke for this speaker in 2009, 2010, 2011 at the time of the adoption of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office – about what? That we need a strong prosecution organization headed by the Attorney General. At the time I was Minister, we tried, you could also hear me in the media, when I said we should give Mr Fisher more authority to make it easier and better to lead the prosecution's organization. What did he say yesterday? Did you hear what he said yesterday? "But you know, prosecutors are independent, and I have very limited powers." I offered them to him through the law, and he didn't want them! It suits him that he's not responsible and he says, "Well, yeah, we're not sanctioning." Like St. Peter, he decides some things. To get back to the law or to finish this contribution. In short, I welcome the law as it is, at the same time I regret that you have, I will say, stepped as a chicken before the judiciary, especially in terms of the records, because you have no reason to have the records written today as in the 18th century – I will be silent about the transfers, there may be some reservations, because someone who will testify behind you may listen to you. Here, please, they're probably right. They're wrong to write records! And I'm sorry you let them off on behalf of some judicial independence. This is not an independence for writing records. Last but not least: the new CAP, but time is very convenient and it seems to me that it is the right time to do so very quickly. Well, I'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues! I support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, as is now the case in the third reading. I am aware that it greatly helps to simplify certain procedures concerning both the work of police officers and prosecutors and, of course, it becomes more clear who is responsible for certain costs arising from judicial proceedings. I also welcome the solutions that the police can take fingerprints, mucous membranes and so on, when there is a suspicion of a crime, so that they can react fairly quickly and in a timely manner by looking for the right person. I am aware, however, that this law or these additions, as we now have before us, are significantly less exciting than they were when we first discussed them, even when the previous government brought them into consideration at the beginning of this year. Today, several debaters have already pointed out what things have been excluded from the first proposal for the third reading, namely those related to sound recording, image recording, then the transmissions of the main readings and the conversion of the classic record to the digital record. However, in all possible non-compliance between the coalition and the opposition, it is necessary today to recall a claim made by our current colleague, Dr Vinko Gorenak, at the beginning of the year at the first hearing in the National Assembly, when he said that the transfer of the main hearings would essentially help to control the functioning of the courts. Well, the issue of control is, in fact, what we have been feeling for the last few days, not only when this law has changed, but also when some events have occurred, it is painful. Of course, in the spirit of the culture of the democratic system, we are committed to respecting the division of power into judicial, legislative and executive. Of course, we also know well that the boundaries between these three branches of government in our country are not entirely, in all cases, clearly defined. And it is also a fact that the history of the establishment of a balance between these three branches of government has always been the history of the struggle to intervene and cross borders and intervene in the work of another branch of power. We are now on the issue of control over the functioning of the judiciary before this question is whether the Government is the one who, with some of its own procedures, can reach out to the judiciary. Minister Pljičanič is in an interview with the newspaper Evening, in today's edition we can read this, it seems quite sincere and honest to say that as the government, as the minister of justice, he does not have much power to intervene and to control the judiciary. Is there more power on the side of the legislative system? Some say that yes, you just have to write the right laws. Others argue that these laws must also be brought into line with the professional public and, in particular, with those who are representatives or contractors then of these laws. Of course, it is also true that a few steps ahead of what is being implemented today must also be taken in developing legislation. So it is necessary to modernise the legislation and, through it, to modernise the functioning, in this case, of the judicial system. I think that we will have to take care of this together in the legislative branch, so that the Minister, as Comrade Plitsanic did, does not need to answer the press that the government and the judiciary are subordinated to Slovenian citizens, taxpayers. From this it can feel that he too thinks he is the only and last possible supervisor of Slovenian citizens. It is true that it is the only and last, pardon, that the last supervisor over all branches of power is a Slovenian citizen – in both genders of course. But there should be more supervisors. One of the key controls – and those who are professionals themselves in different fields, you know, one of the key controls is always internal professional supervision. I hope that within the judicial profession there will also be an internal autonomous but objective control over the functioning of employees in this system. With the help of, of course, properly prepared legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Borut Ambrožič, and I do not see him in the Chamber, so we will continue. A number of panellists have resigned from the debate. The next one would be Mr Mag. Grimes, I can't even see. After him, Mrs Eva Irgle – no. Is it possible that the applicant still has a desire to discuss it? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I would like only two additional explanations or perhaps warnings. I'll limit myself to the novel you've got ahead of you. I would like to say two things — one about the transmissions of the main readings — and I have warned that the novel no longer contains this. I would like to clarify that this is primarily a question of whether the principle of public opinion can become or may obtain some of the norms of the supreme principle in criminal proceedings. Indeed, it is necessary to know that in criminal proceedings we have a correlation of a number of principles, to mention in particular the principle of presumption of innocence and the principle of material truth. Therefore, when considering how to arrange the recording, transmission of the main hearings, it is nevertheless necessary to take into account the relationship in which the principles of criminal procedure are and must remain. The other thing I'd like to point out is a digital record. It is not even so much here that the proposaler should focus on proposals or alert the professional public. It is also the fact that the complete elimination of the minutes, as we know it now, does not know any comparative legal arrangements. The nature of the record in the criminal procedure is double: one is the record of the procedure and the other is the recording of the content of the evidence. In this second part, the minutes may be replaced by a digital one, or the classical record may be replaced by a digital record. Why this has not yet been done, or why this proposal has not yet been adopted, is mainly a matter of technical nature. In fact, the equipment is not yet suitable for this to be carried out. As it is said, in this part of the minutes we can replace, in the first one, as a record of the protocol and the record of all procedural guarantees of procedure, however, it cannot be completely eliminated because it changes completely or, if I am more radical, breaks the whole philosophy or system of criminal proceedings. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. I ask if there is any other desire for discussion, because we have some time left. I don't see a desire to discuss it. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The National Assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today, as part of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Second draft law on participation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, hello again! In short, I would like to present to you the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. I will begin here, and the applicable law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union was adopted in 2007 and applied in early 2008. It shall establish cooperation in criminal matters between the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union. The Law on cooperation in criminal matters has been transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia until then the legal acts of the European Union have been adopted. Since the adoption of the Law on cooperation in criminal matters, i.e. since 2007, further legal acts have been adopted at European Union level which have a substantive impact on cooperation in criminal matters between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union. The newly adopted legal acts have a systemic impact on the law in force, and these interventions are significant. In view of these individual parts of the current law, they no longer conform to the amended standards or to the newly adopted standards of the European Union. In view of the necessary adjustments to the current text and at the same time as laying down procedures for the new legal acts of the European Union, the scope of the amendment would be closer to the amendment of a third of the existing law. Therefore, due to the scope and content of the changes, we are proposing a new law that will take over and build on the experience of practice on the implementation of the legal acts of the European Union, which, as it is said, are governed by the law already in force, and will also be transposed into the internal legal order after 2008 by the legal acts of the European Union. The new draft law deals with the following areas: strengthening procedural rights in relation to the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions rendered in absentia, European evidentiary tasks, the principle of mutual recognition in respect of the judgments handed down in prison sentences, the purpose of their enforcement, the prevention and resolution of disputes concerning the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal matters, the application of the principle of mutual recognition of control decisions, for example, alternative detention, and the provision of supervision. Finally, let me mention that they are being added to the new law or that the new law also provides for a European criminal information system. The material submitted is fully coordinated with the judicial authorities, which will mainly carry out the procedures on the basis of a proposal for a law, and is also coordinated with the Information Officer of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of Justice and the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u132	Your Honor! On behalf of the Committee on Justice, which, at its 11th meeting on 8 May 2013, considered the draft law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, submitted by the Government to the legislative procedure, the Minister of Justice, as a motion for additional reasons, stressed that the proposed law transposes the legal acts of the European Union in the field of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between Member States. Since the entry into force of the current law, legal acts have been adopted at the level of the European Union, requiring substantive changes while certain areas are being transposed or re-ordered. In a relatively short debate, the question was raised above all by the transmission of decisions by the domestic court in recognition of the enforcement of the Republic of Croatia after its entry into the European Union, which is a very interesting issue in view of some of the current developments. The representative of the proposer, the Secretary of State, explained that following the implementation of the Framework Decisions, it would be possible for the Republic of Croatia to refer the Republic of Slovenia to its national, who had been convicted before the Slovenian Court and had fled to the Republic of Croatia before its execution, for that country to be able to refer a judicial decision in recognition and enforcement under the same conditions as the other Member States of the European Union. It will also facilitate the procedures for bringing such a convicted person to the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee then adopted some one hundred amendments to the article, most mainly editorial in nature, and finally unanimously endorsed the text in its entirety. I propose to the National Assembly that this law, because it is a matter of alignment with the acquis of the European Union, should also be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The main objective of the law is to bring the legal acts of the European Union into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union. These newly adopted European acts require substantive and systematic changes to our 2007 applicable law. The main changes are introduced in the area of the recognition and enforcement of judgments, the task of arrest and surrender, legal aid and cooperation with the European legal network. In the DeSUS Group, we support any improvement in the direction of increasing the impact of international cooperation in criminal matters, as we are aware that the complexity of a criminal case when it crosses borders and becomes an international case is significantly increased, as in the case of a nationally located case. For this reason and, of course, because of the fundamental purpose of the new law, which is, as it is said, in the transposition of international law into the internal legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, we support the proposed law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Now the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! With the free movement of goods and within the European Union, there is an increasing frequency of cases where perpetrators of criminal offences avoid criminal or criminal proceedings and the execution of sanctions imposed by the exchange of countries of residence within the European Union. In order to prevent such a situation, effective cooperation between the Member States of the European Union, which has been regulated by law in Slovenia since 2007. Today's new Law on Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union is substantively a synchronisation of legislation with the current European legislation. The recast of this area is conditioned by the European Union's adopted legal acts after 2008, which have regulated the cooperation of the Member States in a different way from now on a valid identical law adopted in 2007. The Council of the European Union has adopted several Framework Decisions and Decisions during this time, which have addressed the area of cooperation of the Member States of the European Union in the field of justice, with a view to regulating mutual assistance between countries and ensuring the maximum extent of mutual recognition of acts which are relevant for the conduct of criminal proceedings, and in particular the recognition of judgments of the courts of other Member States of the European Union. An important novelty that is enforced by that law is that Member States no longer have the discretion to decide whether they will take over the enforcement of judgments by the courts of other Member States of the European Union. Therefore, the requested State must carry out the criminal sanctions imposed in another Member State unless the grounds for refusal exist in the law. There are significant differences in the process of rights between Member States and there must therefore be mutual trust between countries in this area, which is governed by this regulation. That law constitutes a substantive overcoming of old legal formalism, which could still be defended under existing legislation. I also add that cooperation is needed not only with the Member States of the European Union but also with third countries in the area of effective fight against international crime. While this cooperation is regulated by international treaties, it is true that differences in the regulation of procedural law or, rather, in the provision of procedural rights to accused persons are often greater than between Member States of the European Union. Thus, even the most dangerous crimes remain unpunished in our country. In this area, it will be necessary to unify the Member States of the European Union with regard to the standards of procedural rights of accused persons in order to make the Member States of the European Union, including Slovenia, effective in the fight against international crime. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u138	Your Honor! As has already been said, the proposal for the law under consideration is prepared on the basis of amendments to European legislation in this area, which required the harmonisation, in particular in substance, of our legislation with the European acquis. Given the scope of the news provided for by these legal acts of the European Union, individual parts of the law would have been so deeply affected by the content that it would have been necessary to adopt a new law, not just a novelty of the previous text. The new law extends, inter alia, the principle of mutual recognition to the recognition and enforcement of judgments in criminal matters, by which prison sentences or measures involving the confiscation of liberty, conditional decisions with protective supervision, decisions on conditional leave with protective supervision, measures to ensure that the accused is present and the successful execution of the criminal procedure. The bill will also simplify the operation or cooperation of our country's judicial authorities with the competent authorities of other countries, as it introduces uniform forms for different forms of cooperation, limits the grounds for refusal, lays down time limits for individual procedural tasks and provides for direct information and information as a fundamental rule for the cooperation of the competent authorities of countries; it is said not through intermediaries, but directly. It also introduces a number of changes in the area of Eurojust, including changes focusing on the regulation of assumptions or circumstances under which the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia may request assistance from the national representative of Eurojust in order to facilitate and implement the criminal procedure more effectively. This legal aid and the enforcement of these legal acts on the basis of this international legal assistance and mutual cooperation will be possible seven days a week and 24 hours a day. We must be aware that Slovenia has been a part of the European Union since the entry into the European Union, and especially since the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, and that the European Union has become a common space for all European Union citizens who can move freely across the area and in this regard also avoid the time limits of justice in view of the content of this law. The involvement of all members in the prevention, detection, investigation and repression of crime is of particular importance in this context and needs to be repeatedly and decisively supported every time. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support this proposal because we believe that the unification, formalization and strengthening of the cooperation of law enforcement authorities and judicial authorities in the criminal field will also reflect positively on the strengthening of the rule of law with us in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice welcome to everyone on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Crime does not know borders, it is one of the facts accompanied by the process of globalisation for a long time. Slovenia, however, has received a very unpleasant reputation in recent years, which is extremely ineffective in the conduct of criminal proceedings. There have been cases of some of the most serious criminals being tracked down with the help of some of the services, and suspected drug - related crime, health, and even human life have been forgiven and left for procedural reasons. There have been known cases of people being sought by international terrorists, and because of the failure of the Slovenian judiciary to act, it has come to the point that they have left Slovenian territory again without delay, even though they have been observed. Cases are known where individuals or in the latter case are in criminal proceedings and may leave Slovenia without delay. All of this, of course, reflects in some way the fact that when it comes to criminal policy, criminal sanctions and justice in its entirety, we are not a country that would be an example to Europe, but unfortunately the other way around. This negative reputation also works in a very poor direction in many other areas, even when it comes to economic cooperation, of course, the search for political and all other alliances. For this reason, it is extremely important that these things are corrected and adjusted as soon as possible. Slovenia is an equal part of the European Union and, of course, when it comes to any area of social life, it is incumbent on Slovenia to respect the standards in force in the European Union and to implement them fully in its territory. From this point of view, a new proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the members of the European Union is welcome, as it summarises many of the European Union's legal acts, introduces some new ones into Slovenia's legal order and, most importantly, would highlight a larger framework, in-depth cooperation, just when it comes to the issue of criminal matters and the imposition or enforcement of criminal sanctions in criminal matters. For this reason, it is also good that this is a new law, that there is no novelty that would virtually change a third or even more of the existing law, because it is good for everyone who has to face it either professionally or otherwise. For all these reasons, we will also support the proposed law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u142	Your Honor! The proposed law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union under consideration will be supported by Members and Members of the Social Democrats. There is no time for a more detailed presentation of such an extensive law as the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. However, I would like to point out in the introduction that the applicable Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union was adopted in 2007 and has been applicable to us since the beginning of 2008. In these five years, there has been no interference with this law, but after a review of the current law and what we are considering today, the latter is much more extensive, since it contains as many as 239 articles. The previous, the old law has 126 articles. The main objective of this proposal is the transposition into the internal legal order of the Republic of Slovenia of legal acts of the European Union in the field of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between Member States. This extensive document regulates the European command for receipt and surrender, the Joint Investigation Group, highlights cooperation with Eurojust and the European Judicial Network, mutual recognition of financial penalties, enforcement of decisions on confiscation of property benefits, exchange of data from criminal records and other issues. New legal acts have been adopted at EU level since 2007 and 2008 and must be put into our legal order. The reason for such a broader proposal is also in some new areas relating to the strengthening of procedural rights in relation to the principle of mutual recognition of court decisions rendered in absentia, European evidentiary tasks, the principle of mutual recognition in respect of judgments imposed on sentences, the purpose of their enforcement, the prevention and resolution of disputes concerning the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal matters, the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions on control measures as alternatives to detentions and the provision of supervision in the European criminal information system. It was also explained by the Ministry of Labour that, on the proposal of this law, the Republic of Slovenia may, for its national convicted before a Slovenian court, also in another Member State, forward a decision in which the sentence has been imposed and may also be carried out in a country where a Slovenian convicted citizen may be present, meaning also that if a citizen does not arrive in Slovenia and the sentence imposed in Slovenia can be carried out under the same conditions in that EU Member State, of course, provided that the authorities of the EU State agree that the judgment and the certificate are accepted and can be carried out there, if it allows the convicted person to remain in contact with his relatives and friends who can also visit him. These are the conditions under which penalties may be imposed under this Article in another country. Procedures have also been eased to bring the convicted person, if these conditions are not met, from the EU country to Slovenia for the sentence to be suspended. As we say, the Social Democrats will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. The applicable law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union was adopted in 2007 and applied in 2008. It regulates cooperation in criminal matters between the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union and has been transferred to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia until then adopted legal acts of the European Union. Since the adoption of the law, further legal acts have been adopted at European Union level which have a substantive impact on cooperation in criminal matters between the competent authorities of the Member States and of the European Union. The newly adopted legal acts have a systemic impact on the law currently in force, extending the principle of mutual recognition also to the recognition and enforcement of judgments in criminal matters, by which prison sentences or measures involving deprivation of liberty, conditional decisions with protective supervision, decisions on conditional leave with protective supervision, measures to ensure that the accused is present and the successful execution of the criminal procedure. A legal act has also been adopted to strengthen the procedural rights of persons in criminal proceedings. In the light of all the above, the individual parts of the current law no longer comply with the amended standards or the newly adopted standards of the European Union. In view of the necessary adjustments to the current text, and at the same time as laying down procedures for the new legal acts of the European Union, the scope of the amendment would be closer to the amendment of a practically third or even more of the scope of the applicable law. At the same time, the text of the law would become opaque and difficult to apply and a new law is proposed. The law already in force regulates the European arrest and surrender order, joint investigation measures or groups, cooperation with Eurojust and the European Judicial Network, mutual recognition of fines, enforcement of decisions on confiscation and confiscation of property benefits, exchange of data from criminal records, and more. In addition to this and the law, the strengthening of procedural rights in relation to the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions rendered in absentia, the European Evidence Order, the principle of mutual recognition in respect of judgments pronounced in prison sentences, for the purpose of their enforcement, prevention and resolution of disputes concerning the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal matters, the scope of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions on supervisory measures, as alternatives to detention and the provision of supervision and the scope of the European Criminal Information System. The law before us is fully in line with the judicial authorities, which will mainly carry out procedures under this law, the Information Officer, the Council of Justice and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the light of all the above, the Group of the Civil Code announces its support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 14th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u146	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Operations Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings, urgent procedure We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 23. 5. 2013 which you received on the e-club. We're moving on to decision-making. First of all, on the amendment of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, National Gazette, Democratic Party of Pensioners, Article 3. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. End of vote. There were 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against, none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We shall proceed with the vote on Article 13. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 13, which is the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. If this amendment is adopted, an amendment under point two shall also be considered to have been adopted. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 81 Members or Members present, 80 Members or Members voted against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to a vote or a decision on the amendment to Article 15. This is the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of Pensioners. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 16, 17 and 19 and to the new 73a. If this amendment is not accepted, the other amendments in question shall become irrelevant. If this amendment is accepted, the amendment under point two shall become irrelevant and all the amendments thereto shall become irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 82 Members or Members present, 74 Members or Members voted against. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We continue to vote, passing Excuse me, and point out that the amendment under number two is, of course, immaterial. [[...]] We are now moving to a vote on Article 16, proposing the parliamentary group Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 15, 17 and 19 and to the new 73a. If this amendment to Article 15 has not been adopted by the same proposer, this amendment shall be irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 84 Members or Members present, 82 Members or Members voted against. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 17th Article of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 15, 16 and 19 and to the new 73a. If the amendment of the same proposer to Article 15 has not been adopted, this amendment shall be irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 84 Members or Members present, 78 Members or Members voted against. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 19th article, of which the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia are proposing. If this amendment is adopted, it will become an amendment under point 2 and will be accompanied by the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 75. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 6. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 29 to decide, and the proposed amendment is the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 17. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to article 70, the amendment's proposing groups of positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This has made the amendment irrelevant to Article 72. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 75. As the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 19 has been adopted, the amendment to Article 75 is irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 73a. The proposed amendments are the parliamentary groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Retired. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Articles 15, 16, 17 and 19. If the amendment to Article 15 has not been adopted, this amendment shall be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 4. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded this part of the vote. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted amendments to Articles 3, 13, 15, 16, 17, 19, 29, 70 and 73a of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Dr. Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Very briefly. This is one of the few laws that we have so unanimously adopted, that we will not make new amendments and that it will be in force as soon as possible. That's good. They supported it, as I can see, we will also support it in the final version, because this is the only law that should be adopted in 2008 or in 2009, and that would still be the time. At the same time, I must remind all those Members who were with us in the previous term that we have debated several times on bankruptcy managers on the committee I led on my own for internal policy, public administration and justice. Countless times! We have also repeatedly pointed out the mistakes that Mrs Jeraeva has somehow summarized today, at least in the lawyers' segment, and we have repeatedly tabled amendments, tried – but there was nothing. It was nothing because the then coalition with Minister Zalar simply overpowered everyone. I'm sure there's been a few 10,000 job losses on this account. Minister Plitčanič went the other way, as you have seen, he has prepared a novel that is good, a novel that we have all somehow attached to it, but this novel is actually the first step. Above all, it will certainly be necessary, as has been promised, to make either new amendments or to make a new law, which, in our opinion, should also include the disciplinary responsibility of bankruptcy managers, which we had before 2009 in law, so that the bankruptcy administrators did not decide their own sins, because "the crow crow does not rule out their eyes" as they say. In 2009, and 2010 respectively, the previous coalition, on a proposal from Mr Zalar, pushed together the bankruptcy administrators or the Chamber. We should fix this part, too. I expect a new law or a new novelty will fix it. Of course, everything is aimed at faster, more efficient, better procedures, in particular the protection of workers' rights as well as creditors. This is important, so this law or such regulations we needed a few years ago. I hope that in the future we will be faster, especially in some other laws, this is also the Criminal Procedure Act, which I spoke about a little earlier in the debate. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be adopted: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Financial Action Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings. Can we get to the vote? We vote on this decision. There are 85 Members or Members present and 85 Members have voted in favour. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body or at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 86 Members or Members present, 86 Members or Members of Parliament voted in favour. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended proposal have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 86 Members or Members present and all 86 Members or Members of Parliament have voted in favour. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Special Report of the Ombudsman, Advocate – the voice of the child. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a recommendation for a special report by the Ombudsman. We're voting. There are 84 Members or Members present and 83 Members have voted in favour. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the elimination of the consequences of the repeal of Article 134, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, and Article 134, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, an urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 22. 5. you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3 of the parliamentary groups Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, Civil Gazette and DeSUS to Article 3. We're voting. There were 83 Members or Members present, 58 Members or Members voted against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm starting the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railway Safety in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Railway Safety Act. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We turn to the motion for the election of a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg By letter of 25 April 2013, Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed that Mr Mir Prek be elected candidate for Judgeship at the General Court of the European Union Court in Luxembourg. I give the floor to Mrs Nataš Kovač, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u149	Dear President, honourable Members, thank you very much for your words! In January 2013, the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor received two nominations for a judge at the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg, Mr Mir Prek, who is already acting as judge in this court, and Mr Miodrag Đorđević, Chief Justice at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. After careful consideration of both proposals that meet the required criteria and high professional requirements, the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor proposes to the National Assembly to elect Mr Mir Prek, a university-graduate lawyer, a judge at the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Mr Prek was a member of the Association Agreement Negotiating Group and a member of the European Union's negotiating group on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union until 2004 when he was employed by the Court of Justice of the European Community. He was the leader of projects to adapt European legislation and European integration in the whole of the Western Balkans. As the only successful candidate from Slovenia to date, in March 2005 the general course was held for the heads of legal departments at the level of A12 EPSO Head of Unit and, as such, successfully passed the candidacy. In June 2006, just prior to the election of a judge in the current Court of Justice, in a public invitation from the European Commission, between more than 600 candidates were elected as Director of the Official Publications Office of the European Union, but he did not take this position because he took office in the General Court of Justice. He has been in office since October 2006. In 2009 he obtained the postgraduate title "Master of Laws", a Master of European Law at the Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance of the University of Luxembourg. It is the author of a number of books and manuals in the field of economic companies and economic law and numerous works, as well as articles on the European Union and an established lecturer in this field. The candidates are distinguished by the rich and direct experience gained both in the process of developing the legal resources of the independent Slovenia during and after its membership in the European Union, as well as by the excellent knowledge of international legal, political and economic institutions and mechanisms. Since 2003, it has been directly involved in the implementation of the European Union's external policies as project manager or legal expert financed by the European Union and the United Nations. He had a direct view of the functioning of the services of the Court of Justice of the European Community. As a successful Judge of the General Court, he has extensive direct experience in developing a new case law, which he is also recognised there by the leaders of the Court of Justice obtained from the trial in all areas of the jurisdiction of that Court. Words as one of the few judges of this court who has virtually no judicial backlog. The candidate actively uses English, French and German and Yugoslav languages and passive Spanish and Italian. This is important because, in accordance with the language rules of the General Court, judges and judges without interpreters shall consult each other in French. Therefore, the candidate with active knowledge of the French language has the advantage of choosing. On the basis of all the above, the President of the Republic notes that Mr Miro Prek will continue to perform this distinguished international function in a professional and conscientious manner. It proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to elect him as Judge of the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Natasha Kovac. The proposal dealt with the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body and also reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. We have only announced one position of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary-General, Office of the President of the Republic! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to elect Mr Miro Prek as Judge in the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg. The proposed candidate also has a high level of professional competence in the event of very rich work experience and relevant professional training, in particular with regard to knowledge of European Union law. As has already been known, he has been acting as a judge in the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union since 2006, which means he is involved in the development of a new case law. The latter, as we know, is an important part of common European law. The fact that the proposed candidate has already been successful in his judicial work shows that he is one of the few judges of the General Court who does not have any judicial backlog. However, as we have heard, he uses English, French and German, which greatly facilitates his work and probably also contributes to his effectiveness. Notwithstanding the fact that Members and Members of Parliament vote on the candidate in secret, on the basis of all this, I declare on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats that we will also support the proposed candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the vote. On the proposal to elect a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the European Union Court in Luxembourg. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission shall vote in secret. The Commission shall be composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. As usual, the groups have already submitted proposals for members of the Commission. These are: mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš – Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah – Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Kurnjek – National List, Mrs Iva Dimic – Nova Slovenija. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work. Who is opposed to such a commission? If no one objects, we shall proceed to the vote. We will vote on the composition of this commission. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid message from which the wishes of the Members or Members are not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed message to the voting box, which is at the edge of the Chamber. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask those Members and Members of Parliament who will assist me in voting to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will start at 15.15 and will continue until 3:30 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in meeting you in room 217. This concludes this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u153	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the meeting and with the suspension of the 10th item, this is the proposal to elect a candidate for a judge at the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. The vote was held today, 25 May 2013, at the premises of the National Assembly. 80 ballots were distributed and 80 ballots were also delivered. Of these, 16 votes and 64 votes were invalid. 61 Members and Members voted against by 3 Members or Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Miro Prek was elected by a majority of the votes of all Members as Judge at the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Of course, we congratulate the chosen Mr. Mir Prek. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Deputy Ombudsman. By letter of 22 April 2013, the Ombudsman proposed to the National Assembly that he be re-appointed as the Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. Cornelia Marzel. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Ombudsman, Magi. Colored yeast.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and honourable Members! In the introduction, I would like to apologize to the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, who is officially a percentage, but she has read and based her proposal to re-appointed and elect the deputy in detail on the Council of Ministers. It is a matter of reappointment; Mrs Mag. Cornelia Marzel has basically twenty-four years of work, since 1989 she has been employed in the municipality of Slovenj Gradec and then as head of the administrative unit of Slovenj Gradec. The Ombudsman was elected in 2007 for the first term, until the end of May 2013. She's a university-graduate lawyer, a major in science. The Ombudsman shall cover the area of administrative matters of the environment and space, labour relations and housing relations. On the basis of its work, expertise and cooperation, the Ombudsman assessed that there was no need for a second selection of candidates and therefore submitted her proposal to be elected, or that the National Assembly would re-appointed her as the Deputy Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The proposal addressed the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as its parent working body and informed the National Assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. We are now moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and, first of all, Mrs Eva Irgl, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! A while ago, we decided who would be the new Ombudsman. Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer received more than a convincing number of votes at the vote and became a new guardian. However, the Law on the Ombudsman provides in Article 15 that the Ombudsman shall also have his deputies, at least two and a maximum of four. It is certainly an important and responsible function that monitors the good functioning of the legal and, above all, the just state and society. Like the Ombudsman, his deputies are those who are called upon to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to state authorities, local authorities and public authorities. At the time of the appointment of the Ombudsman, I have said that we have not so far had the happiest hands in choosing the guardians, but we can say that the deputies are the guardians of their work, at least as far as I am working with them within the Commission for Human Spiders, they are doing professionally and professionally. Mag. Ms Cornelia Marzel, who has been proposed by the Ombudsman as a deputy, has done this work, as we have already heard, and I have met with her myself at the petitions and human rights and equal opportunities meetings of the Commission, and she has always done her work in the debates professionally, and above all politically impartially, which is of crucial importance in the consideration of human rights. The Ombudsman, in her proposal to appoint a deputy, addressed to the President of the National Assembly, said that, taking into account the said and the scope of the Ombudsman's work on the Ombudsman's work for 2012, as well as for 2013, it was clear that the number of initiatives received was increasing, as well as the programme and scope of work and projects in the field of the Ombudsman's work, for which Mrs Cornelia Marzel was in charge, and therefore decided to forward to the National Assembly a proposal to re-appointed her as Deputy Ombudsman. In preparing the proposal, the Ombudsman took into account in particular the expertise of the proposed candidate, the ability to make written statements in legal matters, the many years of working experience in areas falling within the competence of the Ombudsman and the personality characteristics of the proposed candidate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support Mrs Cornelia Marzel as the Deputy Ombudsman and we wish her all the good work and success in her reinstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable magus. Bojana Kvas, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we express our support for the proposal of the Ombudsman of the Government of Nussdorfer to appoint a mag as one of the four deputy functions. Cornelia Marzel. However, at this point it must be pointed out that the Ombudsman proposes to the President of the State, and the Ombudsman is given the task, opportunity or honour of appointing his deputies. Therefore, I would like to point out that, under the Law on the Ombudsman, we are making this decision within the time limit, because the Magi. Cornelia Marzel's term of office expires in late May and, by law, the proposal should be in the State Assembly six months before the end of the term of office. But no matter what, and because we have not exceeded the 45-day deadline in which the National Assembly must decide on the Ombudsman's proposal, we express our support for this proposal, because we are aware that we have now been in some special situation, that the appointment of the Ombudsman has been suspended in any way in relation to the presidential elections and that this condition of the six-year earlier proposal has not been met. I leave it to everyone individually to judge how individual human rights guardians have done their job, their rights and their obligations so far. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, each of them is so far of quality and we expect the work of the Ombudsman to continue in the future. The work of the four deputies also contributes greatly. We believe that in view of the increased scope of cases involving the Ombudsman, and at the same time with the extension of powers, it is now an opportunity to relieve at least a little pressure on the Ombudsman by appointing one of the deputies in a timely manner. We believe that something like this, which is part of the increased work of the Ombudsman, was adopted today at the moment when we voted on the recommendations for the Special Ombudsman’s report Advocate – the voice of the child. We have also pointed out that the obligation to regulate the position of the advocate of the principle of equality can be widened, and these are all the reasons why we believe that content has an advantage over form. So it's the support of the Mag Group of Members. He's got Cornelia Marzel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer cancels. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I am therefore putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Cornelius Marzel as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. I'm opening the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 4. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Choir is a mag. Mr Marzel has appointed Cornelia as the Deputy Ombudsman, so I ask that she swears before the National Assembly and, of course, Mrs Marzel I sincerely congratulate you on my behalf, and I can probably do so in yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u160	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you so much for trusting everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-23-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u162	We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Urban Trukl to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the Labour Court in Maribor. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am therefore putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Mr Urban Trukl to the judicial office of the District Court in the Labour Court in Maribor. We're starting the vote. 81 Members and Members are present. Seventy-five Members and Members voted against it. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and I note that there are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that appoints Mr Ciril Baskovic as a member of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Act for a period until the end of the 2010 mandate period of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 51 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivana Vogrin The announcement was forwarded to the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a working mother, who also made written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. We are moving forward to a decision and I propose that we adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Court of Justice in Maribor, Section of Inquiry, No. 1 KPR 18864/2013 of 22. 4. 2013 concerning the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings again by the Member of the National Assembly of Magi. Ivan Vogrin shall not grant immunity to a member of the National Assembly of Magi for the purpose of serving as a criminal offence of commercial fraud under Article 228(1) of the Penal Code relating to Article 54 of the Penal Code. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivana Vogrin The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notification was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body and also submitted a written report to the assembly and a proposal for a decision. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Court of Justice in Maribor, Section of Inquiry, No. 1 KPR 48063/2012 of 15. 4. 2013 concerning the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly of Magi. As a result of the suspicion of the 12 offences of business fraud referred to in Article 228(1) of the Penal Code relating to Article 54 of the Penal Code, John Vogrin does not recognise immunity from the Member of the National Assembly of Mags. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. As in the previous case, we decide on this proposal without discussion. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] This concludes this agenda item and at the same time the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and good-bye.
