ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We continue with the 16th meeting of the National Assembly and with the 23rd item, this is the Commission's 2012 report on the work of the intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a debate on the Commission's findings and views and on the proposal for a decision submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The first one has the word, Mr Franz Bogovich, and the Magi is behind him. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u2	I give up the word at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u4	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I think that we have previously found in closed work that our Commission has worked relatively well and in a coordinated manner. Of course, there is always an opportunity and an opportunity for us to act even better. Nevertheless, I would like to point out two more things in the open part: the things that concern the operation of extreme groups in Slovenia and the things that concern only Owl and its operation. Over the past year, we have been very active in the activities of extreme groups in Slovenia. In my opinion, we have done more or less additional promotions to them, but despite all the reports of the competent services, it seems that the extreme groups, Islamic, right-wing, left-wing groups operating in Slovenia do not pose a greater threat to the security of the country and that security services are currently in control of the whole situation. This is an important information and it all seems to be within normal limits so far. But absolutely so-called lone wolves, as happened in the case of Breivik, no state and no security service can ever and will ever prevent. And that is most likely not even the Slovenian security and intelligence services. Our Commission, the Intelligence and Security Supervisory Commission, has already concluded its conclusions on the extreme groups and has concluded that the threat of extreme groups is low, but no one can guarantee absolute security. It also proposed to the Government certain amendments and additions to legislation and a clearer definition of extreme groups. Why am I telling you this? Because I consider the establishment of an investigative commission in relation to these extremist groups to be a completely unnecessary act and see it as a way of political overreaction, one policy option wanted to use this investigative committee to prove to the other political groups how it worked with the extreme groups. Based on the findings of the services, none of this is true and this needs to be said very clearly and publicly. For this reason, I simply do not see the meaning of the existence of this commission of inquiry. This Commission of Inquiry can easily summarise the conclusions of the Commission on the supervision of security and intelligence services and will thus be able to complete its work. So much for extreme groups. Now, if I focus on the very operation of the Owl. The operation of the Owl in 2012 was not good. It was intertwined with a series of conflicts and mutual accusations. A number of anonymous women came to the public, violating the reputation of the Owl, and, last but not least, impeding the good and effective work of the Owl. Owls in some way, unfortunately, happen to keep the information leaking; once they sue within the Owl one group another, then the next day vice versa, and this definitely does not contribute to the improvement of the situation in Owl. It is unacceptable, however, that old people in Owl wonder what the political identity of the new personnel coming to the Owl is. I understand that this is a particular intergenerational friction, because a new generation may be better equipped with electronic technology than older ones, but it is unacceptable that they are counted in Owl by political affiliation. No one should ask anyone in Owl which political option he belongs to, but only whether he meets the standards of employment in Owl and if it is an effective and professional cadre that he can work effectively in Owl. I expect the President of the Government to make order in this service, because, last of all, this service is directly subordinated to her, and if we now draw a comparison and parallel with what is happening in Luxembourg, you can see that Prime Minister Juncker has resigned precisely because he has not made order in this service. I expect from the President of the Government that she will make order in Owl, that Owl will not indemnify each other and that she will finally start doing what she is meant to do, that is to gather information for the good and security of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin, you have sixty-four seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much. There's nothing I can say in sixty-six seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Vinko Gorenak, followed by Mr Jože Tanko and then Mr Dragutin Mate. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much. In this part of the meeting, I would like to open up some of the dilemmas that I consider to be very important, and more than reflection, they are intended for the current President of the Commission than those that have led or worked on this committee in the past. Look, we've got things settled by marriage now. The powers of the commission are also regulated by law, and there is no major dilemma here, there are no major problems, except sometimes different interpretations and laws, supervised services sometimes interpret this way, Members interpret each other differently. However, I would like to draw attention to one part of the commission, or part of the supervisory services, where I think the dark field is also appearing for the commission. It is simply that the commission gets those tables, the tables, the numbers I have studied on many occasions, then in the role of a Member, and later in the role of a minister, when I had to sign these reports and send them forward, you have some tables there, because I say, with some numbers, legal articles, if you don't know them, you just have to control them, what does the article mean. [[...]] In short, those reports seem to me to be domestically rather imprecise and can be behind them in many ways. But, look, I don't see so many control issues, and I know that we've done that in the past, too, those cases that end with a criminal charge. Our cases, which ended with a criminal complaint, are later controlled in some way by the court; the use of data acquisition, you can see quite often that they say that these data were not obtained in a legal way; these data are being evaluated in short. What seems to me to be a problem, or even a problem, for the members of the commission, especially for the members of the commission and those who are working here and now, is the part where there is no prosecution. We've got cases where there's no criminal charge. We have cases where the Attorney General declares that he will not initiate criminal proceedings against a suspect. We have cases where the Prosecutor of State does not make a statement within two years of the end of the measures, but what will now happen. In such cases, in my view, abuse may occur. In such cases, the following procedure is provided for by law: the prosecutor having the case in question shall inform the investigating judge and submit all the documentation to the investigating judge. While the investigating judge is obliged to inform those persons against whom the covert investigation measures have been applied, there is also a legal provision that states that the investigating judge may, on a proposal from the prosecutor, also on a proposal from the police, decide in certain cases and say, "No, the material evidence goes to destruction and we will not inform the affected persons." There are cases like this. This is usually justified in such a simple way, for the law says that if it is a threat to human life and health or for other serious reasons. It is entirely subjectively left to the investigating judge what other valid reasons are. And it just comes to these things being destroyed and that's it. But all the affected people know nothing about how long and time they've been bugged. The following is a hypothetical case that is a purely fictional case. We discussed earlier that these services can also be politically motivated, which we will probably never stop. Let us take a hypothetical example of how criminal police draw up all the necessary documentation and get all the official permission to listen to someone or to use covert investigation measures. This proposal may in some way already have some particular motivation – it can – now to the left or to the right, leave the matter alone, it is not that important – and there will be the use of covert investigative measures. Take that as a politician, for example, it doesn't matter who. Then these covert investigative measures run, data is collected, and so on, and in the end, criminal charges are not filed. What happens next? The police are proposing to the prosecutor, the prosecutor, that all documents on the use of covert actions against this person be destroyed. They also write that there are valid reasons why this policy, if you wish, will not be informed of the use of disguised investigation measures. Watch out, there's one more thing at this point. What do they destroy? They're destroying the files. However, where these data have been collected, certain data exist indefinitely. And such data can also be obtained for political reasons, such as some political motivation, at any time later, from the abuse of this data. Someone can tell me it's all ruined, someone can tell me, but some operative has a checkup on it. After all, we can destroy all the documents, and all the documents can be destroyed. You know the memory, and what, say, some investigator has memorized, recorded, copied, if you want, could not be destroyed or destroyed. And here we have a chance of major abuse. I do not recall ever having to control this area as a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. We usually said: these and these cases, how many of them you're listening to, where you have orders, and we've controlled that. But I don't know if we've ever said, give me the cases you've dealt with in 2005, 2006, 2007 or 2008 or 2000, if you want, and you've completed them without a criminal complaint. What have you done with these documents? At this point, I am asking the question and the question whether we have the right legislation, whether we can supplement this legislation, whether we can improve this legislation, or whether we can expect the Commission to pay more attention to this area, for example, below. I am aware that we are members of or have been members of the Commission, but we will also be members of the Commission, who know very little technically, which is quite understandable, because we cannot ignore this, we cannot all know everything. The former MP Kek, who was also a member of the commission at some time, said: "You know, I look down the hall and I see a machine, and I ask what they have. And they say it's for ice cream to do. And I'm happy, it's for ice cream to work, because I don't know, but maybe it's bugged..." What was I gonna say? I don't know if it's very good in the particular case of Juncker, if you're looking at or looking at the Luxembourg Prime Minister, it looks like it's important in these commissions, these services they're overseeing – it's important. [[...]] In short, these questions to me, and the information I mentioned, they seem important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate has the next word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, I would like to discuss this as a Member first, and then I will discuss it on behalf of the proposer. At this point, I would first like to touch on some important things that were also now exposed or even closed, but they were of a public character, as some of the speakers then said that this was a public work or that I was taking it. First, I would like to touch on the areas of leaking information from the Owl. It's no secret, it's no confidential information, we read it in the media. In the media in 2011, 2012 we were able to read joyfully the dispatches that were produced within the agency. These dispatches looked very credible, if I say so, in this public work and, of course, such a way of doing business, which is also responsible for security in our country, which is one of the responsible for combating terrorism, which is responsible for gathering important information abroad related to the national security of the country, is totally unacceptable. This is not good, it is not good at first for work alone, it is not good at working with other services, and the very reputation of the ministry is well established. Unfortunately, such and other reports appeared more, in a later period we were able to meet with some public letters, which were sent to five, ten different addresses, where long-time employees of the Owl tried to deal with their colleagues in the agency in a political way. They cited their names and names, stated that they did not know from any political option, which is completely irrelevant – and it is important for citizens to know that there is no provision in the Law on Owl that members of the Owl or employees of the Owl should not be members of political parties. From this address in employment and even at the time of work in Owl no one has the right to ask any employee with whom the customer is sympathetic or which member of the customer is. We have such provisions exclusively and only written down for work in the Slovenian Army and in the police. And only there is part of the verification, the legal verification of the services carrying out the recruitment checks, also to verify that these persons are members of political parties, and there they have the right to ask. They don't have that right in Owl. What employees in Owl? Professionals who have worked there for 20 years and over have allowed themselves to do so without consequences. And that's unacceptable. It's not just about protecting the human rights of someone in this country, it's about protecting the human rights of everyone in this country, not some individuals or those we think are necessary. Any of us! It is about protecting equality from the law, protecting legality and protecting the human rights of all. That is why it is the conduct of those employees who have even signed these letters and sent them publicly to the addresses — I am not talking about any secret information, everyone who wanted it could get it. Everyone in the media has been published, everywhere. This is totally unacceptable, unacceptable accounting and shows some things that are obviously happening within this service and are illegal. Now, what has happened and how it has happened, unfortunately we cannot explain in detail to the Slovenian public, because we are in the open part of the meeting. I would also agree with some predecessors who have honestly admitted that some reports from some services are relatively impractical. We figured that out ourselves, and it's nothing confidential. It is very difficult to understand from technical figures and data what is actually going on here, so the Commission has leverage to exercise control. Controls, with operational controls, not with polite visits that may have been predominant in the past year, can effectively monitor individual covert investigative measures. Last year, the Commission – and this is also recorded in one of the Commission’s public documents – dealt largely with extremist groups in Slovenia, their activities, the problems they face and so on. On behalf of the Commission, statements were also made quoting that the level of threat was low. So it is not a secret matter, but it is a matter of knowing what the level of danger is and of knowing that people know this — that the whole time of this country’s existence or the serious occupation of services, which has lasted for 10 years or more, has been at this level. The Commission concluded its discussion on this subject. I am also joining Mr Tonin's opinion that the establishment of an investigative commission for the field and for extremist groups is absolutely unnecessary. It's a completely different political overreaction, for some other interests, otherwise I don't know which, and when the commission did this work and [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] invited the Government to respond to this, and it did this important work that had to be done. So personally, I think we're wasting time and money on the investigation. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Dragutin Mate, you also have the floor as a proposaler or as President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u12	[[...]] [[technical difficulties]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u13	You'll probably be able to do it now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u14	Now the technique works. Initially, I would like to say that the Slovenian public will also know that I took over this commission and work on this committee this year. In the report we are considering last year, the Commission's leadership was in the hands of the opposition at the time, and according to the rules in force in the country, the Commission, as a commission, has to report back this year, which is why I am also the President. By clarifying who led the Commission and the work of the Commission in the past year, both for citizens and for our media, there will be no misunderstandings or complications. In our public work, we sent the Commission the Commission's findings and views which are publicly available. In five points, we have identified some of the findings and views and then proposed a decision to confirm this report. In point 2, we described that the Commission has spent a lot of time with extreme movements and groups in Slovenia in the past year. I have to say and tell the public about those who may have been indistinguishable, whether they are not doing so much, or whether they are not interested in the fact that the Commission succeeded in this year's long-term meetings last year and this year because of the different circumstances, it is only now now that the issue of extreme groups and movements in Slovenia is being addressed, namely 5. 6. At its meeting, the Commission adopted certain decisions which are important. The conclusions are public and have also been sent to the Government. Among these five conclusions, a very important conclusion is that it addresses these issues in 2012 – and therefore we are talking about because we are talking about 2012 – has shown that the Government has to prepare amendments and supplements to the legislation governing substantive and criminal procedural law, police work and public gatherings to enable the competent services to carry out their tasks effectively – and then the text goes a little further, but it is not so important. It is said that the Commission has concluded in its work, with interviews with the authorities in these services and with its own work that our legislation is flawed and has even identified which parts of the legislation require certain amendments. In some ways, the government has also imposed on the Government to prepare these changes. Why is that important? Because the government is now being led by that parliamentary group that proposed an investigative commission on extremism in Slovenia. And one of the tasks they set out there is to amend the legislation. In order for the matter to be a little more amusing, we could also get some response from the Government, which is saying that the legislation is good, that it is well prepared and that the Government has not in some way taken seriously the amendment of this legislation, but has an investigative committee led by a person from the Positive Slovenia Group who will rediscover what changes are needed – and more! For this purpose, we have hired an external expert in times of crisis and savings, who will advise us, with his knowledge that is not legal, on how to regulate legislation in this area. More! In these conclusions, the Commission found that some services have already prepared thesis and proposals for amending legislation in this area in recent years, but their proposals have already been rejected within the Ministry. Of course, we have called on the Government to re-examine these proposals with experts who are still working in these services and in this way facilitate their work in amending the legislation that is necessary and therefore the Commission of Inquiry has been set up. We have also proposed to the Government to establish a special inter-resort working body, an expert group that will prepare an appropriate amendment to that legislation within six months. And the Commission expects the Government to notify the Commission in writing within 15 days of the appointment of the expert working commission. This happened more than 15 days ago. 5. 6. and 6. 6. This has been sent to the Government, the President of the Government and all the relevant ministers: the Defence, Intelligence and Security Service, the MORS, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police Director and the Director of the Criminal Police Directorate. Everyone got this letter, which is public, and that's why I'm talking about it. Nothing has happened, the Commission has not received a return reply, or the Government is doing so, but we have a very intensive work of the investigative commission, which will come to the conclusion that something needs to be changed in the field of legislation, even during parliamentary holidays, calling meetings as urgent, so that we will listen to experts about what they have to say in terms of different aspects, sociological, political and all other aspects. I think that the Commission has done a lot of work in this area, it is true that there have been problems, it is true that we have had different thoughts, that we have finally found some common conclusions that we unanimously adopted – unanimously, both members of the coalition and members of the opposition – and sent them to the Government. We expected the government to act like the biggest government party that had a strong interest, because the previous President of the Commission and then the President of the Commission came from this party, having a strong interest in dealing with this topic. Now that matters have turned around, this interest in serious legal changes has somehow wane, it is not, I cannot explain why otherwise; because it is not a response to constructive proposals not only of the opposition, but of all Members who are sitting in the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. On the other hand, the work of the Commission of Inquiry is extremely forceful. And once again in this place: I personally think and join all those persons in Parliament who believe that the reasons behind the commission of inquiry are that they are not, that the work has been done on the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and that the Government has scissors and canvas in hand. To avoid discussions, they will probably not be able to do so, the government has more important work to do to save the country, to be in the economic crisis. It's all true. The government has, has, and will have people paid to solve this particular problem. These people are not dealing with economic recovery, these people are not dealing with the financial issue of this country, these people are both employed in the Owl, both in the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, in the Ministry of Defence, in the police and in the Ministry of the Interior. These people are paid every day to take care of our safety, to deal with these problems, and to prepare legislative changes. Moreover, some of these people have in the past already found that there is a need to amend legislation – in the field of public gatherings specifically. And someone who's been doing this for a year has everything in his hands, and it's just bringing these people together into a group that we on our working body have called a mediocre working body, because we need to include more resources, probably not just these three, but another one to draft this legislation. They have experts, they have experts, they have knowledge, they have a lot of knowledge. Now we in Parliament are hiring external experts to help us find that we need to change legislation. These experts will not write us a law, eventually the matter will go on the road to find out that it is necessary, will send it back to the government, the government will answer again that it has good laws, that they are in line with European standards and that nothing can be done. And then one wonders why we set up such an investigative commission! But I would also like to touch the dilemma that my colleague has been exposed to today. Why would he want to touch her? In particular, because I think that in our space there was, as far as we are concerned, too little talk in our space about the issues and issues that have opened up in connection with the famous whistle, as is said in the Slovenian language of this Snowden, in the United States of America. This event has opened up a wide range of questions; questions as to how and whether legal hearings can be abused. This question has also been raised. It is up to us, of course, to try to answer these questions or to see what is happening to us in this regard. First of all, we need to say that we have a big difference in obtaining permits to intervene in telecommunications or after domestic wiretapping services, legal wiretapping services. The police need the standard set out in our Penal Code for this intervention: a reasonable reason for suspicion. So he must already have very serious, not just clues, but the reasons he thinks he can present them to the prosecutor so that they can be the reason for this intervention. In certain cases, the Prosecutor may determine the use of these funds only in a limited number and cases, but considers whether the police or a specific criminalist has indeed met the legal standard as to the grounds for suspicion. When it comes to an investigative judge, we've already got two guards. The police officer suggests that the prosecutor agrees with this proposal to allow the investigating judge and the judge. And then the hearings, the legal ones, are carried out as necessary. When the case is closed and the prosecution is concluded, all these papers come to the court, to the courtroom, and then the court can again, and is obliged, to verify that all the criteria and conditions have been met at all stages of the conduct of the wiretap. If they weren't, he dumps that evidence and then things fall down, of course, in court. That's one story. Another story is how this is done or how the law speaks about the Owl. The Director shall appoint himself to monitor all international communications. The law allowed him to do that. The question is whether this is good, and the question is, if we do not have the same law as some other countries, where the director of one of the services can allow eavesdropping on all foreigners. In our country, the director may order, very locally speaking, any foreign number to be heard when communication flows across our territory: either by wire or by air or by any means. That's a fact. It is not subject to any standard of verification for this purpose. Nobody! Because the law is so defined. The problem arises for the Agency when we talk about hearings against Slovenian citizens in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Then Sova must turn to the Supreme Court, specifically the Supreme Court, and get permission to listen. Of course, it does not need, I stress it does not need a legal standard to be met by the police, a reasonable reason for suspicion. That's why there's enough clues. Indicators received from their co-workers, including those given to them by the persons paid to bring them such information. And they don't check them out. They are not checked because it is simply not necessary to use the case later in court. It's about gathering operational information. Such a wiretap, legally covered by the Supreme Judge's signature, may take months and months. It is true that there is a guardian in the law. This guardian speaks of the fact that, in each extension and even against Owl, he must bring all the copies, all the transcripts of the talks, and then the judge will decide if he will extend the permit and decide what must be destroyed. However, the question is whether this is actually happening and this year we will be on the committee, I promise you here publicly before all citizens, and we will also do this and check whether this is actually being done or not, whether this is the only protector we have in Owl to listen to Slovenian citizens in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, large enough and whether it is actually being carried out; in practical cases this needs to be checked. Of course, I am the subject of principles to come up with the topic that my colleague has highlighted, the potential problems that may arise to us – I do not claim that they are happening – which we may have to face very seriously on our committee for the rest of this year and beyond, is, of course, the point that has been described so vividly, in very detail, is that when the police get permission from the prosecutor or the investigating judge to start concealing investigative measures, interference in telecommunications, very simply listening to people and monitoring all their phone calls with all who come in contact with them. Of course, we have here the 154th Article of the Criminal Procedure Act, which imposes both on the police, the prosecutor and the judges certain proceedings if, after some time of listening, there is no result. This can always happen. For example, the police have sufficient grounds for suspicion, the prosecution and the court to approve the implementation of this, and then, for whatever reason, this person does not communicate on this phone with regard to a problematic matter, if I say so, and, of course, there are no more reasons, or the grounds for the suspicion of the crime are not confirmed. There are, of course, many conversations recorded there, especially private ones. Because when someone is listening, not only is what criminal A has been talking to criminal B to commit a crime, but also when a neighbor calls him and asks him if he picks up a child in kindergarten, but when a workmate calls him at work, he tells him if they get a beer at night and so on. This is all recorded. What happens to this material? That's the question. A large or significant number, if I say so, of cases which have been approved by the court and which have been heard, ends with a police report and closes approximately in such a way that there are not enough elements or data for a criminal complaint. It's a brief report. All information remains with the police and, of course, the police have the opportunity to ask the prosecutor in connection with Article 154 of the CAP and thus to the indirect court that, for very loose reasons, because the life and health of the people or other serious reasons which are not listed anywhere in the law - – these serious reasons - may be asked not to destroy this material. Of course, if the police have this material in their archives, they can manage it for anything. It should not be used, i.e. data obtained from hearings in one case should not be used for purposes other than those for. That's how our legislation speaks, because if it happens otherwise, things fall down on the court. Lawyers know the laws and pull all these papers out and things just fall through the long, hard work of the police. The problem we have in this regard is even greater if there are people from public life in these recordings. I did not use the word politics here at all – people from public life. Then there is always some latent danger or desire for people to know more because it is good to know more about their neighbor. This temptation cannot be avoided by anyone, including those who work professionally somewhere, very rarely avoid it. Here comes a gray field, which is also warned by Snowden’s example, where we need to pay particular attention. In this place, I promise all my colleagues in Parliament and also the citizens that the Commission will take this issue very seriously. I've been very busy. While the Commission cannot supervise the prosecutions and not supervise the courts, it will be very clear from police records or records if the courts have ever ordered the destruction of any of these records, if the prosecutors have suggested this, if the police have referred to this famous article and this dictate of the article in order not to destroy these documents, or worse, that a person who has been under wiretap for some time will never know. Why is that important? It is important because then a citizen who has been subjected to hearing has no possibility of his or her legal protection. He can't complain to anyone in this country that someone was using wiretaps illegally. That suspicions may also have been made in a way that proves nothing and cannot protect its personal interests. That's wrong. That's wrong! Because those citizens who have been listening and who end up in court know this; they know that they have been overheard, even if they do not show them all the copies due to certain legal restrictions, but they know this. But we can have a bunch of citizens who have been under such a hearing and will never know. This is unacceptable, this is unacceptable from the point of view of the standard of protection of human rights in this country. We therefore need to check what is going on in this area. I'm not saying they're doing the wrong thing, not misunderstanding me. I say that we must very carefully examine what is going on in this area and also prevent such abuses in this area from occurring. Of course, as far as Owl is concerned, it will be necessary to look very closely at it, to discuss and perhaps also to propose amendments to the legislation that will also require higher standards, such as those applicable to all other citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, that it is not enough just to indicate that it is not enough just to report someone who says that and it is done and so has made a request and then they are being listened to for months, maybe a year or more, I don't know. But in this country, we cannot agree that any service alone and only on the basis of one single clue, perhaps one that is produced in the service itself — even in the case of indications — can get permission to listen to a person. That's unacceptable, that's unacceptable! It is therefore the commission's duty to do more in this area, to take this seriously and to find and propose solutions if it finds that shortcomings in the system have already arisen. There may be one more thing to say here: within the police system, we have many professional employees who are doing their job well and properly. As in all jobs, people who do not work professionally and professionally may appear in such a service, and we must therefore take steps in this area to ensure that this does not happen in our country, that it cannot happen and that it will not happen in the future. I can't agree to sit down and just hope it's true. It is true that, in the past, the Commission has not systematically addressed this issue throughout its period. He didn't. For a variety of reasons. I don't condemn anyone in this, but I think it's time, even at the warning we can get from Snowden's case, to systematically start doing this and find out what's going on here. So far, the Commission has asked several times in the past what happens to these writings, and the answer was to destroy them; and it has believed in the word. No one went to check it out physically and look at it. I think that it is the task of this Commission in the next period to take a physical look at it, to check all the documentation and to see if it is actually being carried out, so that there is no doubt and no doubt that anything is wrong in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see a desire to discuss it. So, I'm opening an application for debate. We still have, I think, a few more minutes. Three panellists have been reported. We have 13 minutes. So each of the discussers has four minutes. We're starting with the first debater who's just a little bit. [[...]] The first is Mr. Dragutin Mate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Of course, as a Member, I would like to add something to this debate, which was held at this time. In this public service. I want to say that such warnings that we can get from a case that has occurred in the United States and this universal wiretap have revealed some things. First, it is very difficult and impossible for the Commission of Inquiry or the Commission of Intelligence and Security Services in Slovenia to find out or obtain data from the United States or any other country in any way that they were listening in our country. That's practically impossible because we don't have access to their databases. This can only be ascertained by the operational work of the services, which would clearly determine where and how this was done through wiretaps or possibly via documents that would directly talk about it – if Mr Snowden had given them – and would have shown that some kind of listening was done in an embassy in Slovenia or in the territory of Slovenia. However, such a situation that we have must place our senses in greater focus on what is happening in Slovenia, what our services have and what they can do. As I have already said and will say again, our intelligence service can monitor international communications without a court order. Whether it's good or bad, we have to judge it. We have to judge that. We listen to others, too. We listen to them. Who, when, why, is another thing. Indeed, there are certain restrictions that impose certain restrictions on the Director of the Soviet Union, in which cases involving terrorism, international crime, etc., etc., but also; other countries have such legislation where they can implement it, and we need to be aware of that and people need to know that. Another problem arises when a service such as Sova, which is not intended to operate in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, is intended to operate abroad, monitors and eavesdrops on Slovenian citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. We're on very thin ice here. If the police are to receive an order from the prosecution or hearing courts, they need a reasonable reason to suspect this. This is a very high standard of evidence. The police aren't happy to have this standard inside because I understand why. In many European countries, there is no such high standard. There is a much lower standard so that the police can get such levers into their hands. We have this standard, and it is personally unacceptable for me that any other service that is not intended at all to operate within the country can get only on the basis of an index, a very low, minimum standard, which almost no one else has in Europe, from services that are legally listening to Slovenian citizens. This is not an equal treatment of Slovenian citizens, and it is true that if Sova detects certain activities, she can hand it over to the police, the police with the evidentiary standard required of her will get information that she can monitor; and this raises doubts if this is abused and even worse if it is misused for political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services has stated this because he will be able to fully implement this in practice and we will be able to do so in fact. I would like to tell citizens and citizens that the Commission has carried out this function to monitor the functioning of the intelligence and security services, that we have carried out it within the scope of our competences and that we have tried to ensure at least two: Are the security and intelligence services working? We can ensure that citizens and citizens work. And secondly, do they respect human rights and legislation? Here, too, we have not identified those anomalies that we should pay particular attention to, so I am pleased that, as a member of this Commission, I have been able to contribute my share and try to contribute to general security and general feeling in our country. It must be said, however, that we cannot prevent such a country or control any extremism and any anomalies that may occur in society. That was clear enough and well-known in the world. Although extremism is marked by a low level of danger in our country, it is, of course, necessary to be careful and yet to enable the services to carry out whatever is necessary to prevent the maximum of what is going on. In its work, the Commission took into account or received reports, we had interviews, we had controls, we took into account what was written in the media, and, of course, what we received as letters as information. All of this has served us to ensure that somehow we can tell citizens and citizens that they are working security and intelligence services and that they are not working because they want to supervise citizens and citizens, but because they are trying to provide security. And this security is of utmost importance to us, and it is therefore right that today our message is that there are dangers, of course, that we cannot prevent them, but that we have jobs that are on the lookout. However, we can ensure that those of us who have been entrusted with the task of overseeing this implementation will continue to do so in accordance with our legislation, our conscience and what we can do. We also talked about protests, about what happened last year, about extremism, but we had as our basis the reports we received from the services responsible for this. These services have credible reports, and after these services we have not been able to act in any other way than we have been able to monitor that we have given guidance and have also proposed an interdepartmental group that will help solve the problem that is present in the world for at least two reasons: because of the increasingly difficult economic, economic and social situation. And secondly, because extremism, if we look around, appears in our immediate vicinity. That is why my message today is that, as long as I am a member of this parliamentary commission of inquiry, forgive the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, I will try to defend our citizens and citizens as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u20	I reiterate that our commission has done well, and I think we agree with this in the coalition and the opposition. Of course, there is always an opportunity and a chance to do more. In view of today's topic, I expected that this hall would be full and that Members would be interested in listening to what is happening to Slovenian intelligence and security services also because of the world's developments, but the picture is a little more crimson. Some who were members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission are not here today, which is a shame, but I will not deal with these matters. I would like to point out that information is crucial in today's world. The one with the information is in favor, so it is. Take a look at the latest affairs or the latest developments regarding MI-6 in Britain, which eavesdropped on negotiations at the G-20 Turkish delegation meeting, and the latest NSA case in America and more. Why am I telling you this? Because at this point I ask myself whether our intelligence and security services have the same opportunities and opportunities as the others. Of course they do not have them, some are objective restrictions, and others are subjective, which we as parliamentarians set. In objective terms, I would like to mention financial capabilities. The financial capabilities of our intelligence and security services are relatively clarinet compared to others. In particular, we have one comparatively important advantage in the Balkans, which is language management, which is something they do not have other partner services, and this would be worth even more taking advantage of. I will now go to the Electronic Communications Act and that famous 166th article, which spoke only and only about allowing security services to obtain, on request, the owner of the connection – not to monitor communication, but to draw up a picture of who communicates with whom if there is an exposure or a need to do so. We said no, and our intelligence and security services don't have that option. But if you look across the border, you see that the Americans and their NSA are doing this all the time, all the time, and all the other jobs. Here we have limited ourselves and reduced the competitive possibilities, if I may say so, for our service. Another issue that is also being raised is whether it is right for the director of Sowe, our foreign intelligence service, to order him to listen to an important source abroad. We have an information officer with whom this possibility is problematic. If you look at other foreign services, you will see that the arrangement is very similar or that other foreign services can do this, that there are no big decisions or court approvals, but these are even large systems that do this technically constantly and everywhere. There's still a lot to say, but it can't be said because it's an open session. I therefore hope that we will use our Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission to hide from the cameras to discuss the dilemmas and problems affecting this area. Once again, I can tell you that this committee of ours has done well to work constructively, perhaps because its work is not in the eyes of the cameras.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a decision. The national assembly will vote on a proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services on Monday, 15 July 2013, as part of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Rail Traffic Act after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Bojan Kumru, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a proposal for amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act in order to properly transpose Council Directive 91/440 of 29 July 1991 on the development of Community railways, as amended by Directive 2001/12 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2001 on the development of Community railways, and in view of the partial transposition and incorrect application of the Directive, the European Commission of Slovenia has given an official reminder — a genuine violation. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act proposes the following amendments: a change in the definition of railway undertaking in line with the Directive and the Law on Rail Safety; a change in the financing of the regulatory authority which ensures its independence and a stable way of financing; a ban on the transfer of funds between the railway infrastructure manager and railway undertakings; and a ban on the transfer of public funds between rail passenger transport activities as a public service to any other business. By incorporating a regulatory authority in the field of rail transport into the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the so-called Apek, which later became the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, it has been shown that this area must also have a stable and independent source of funding in the manner regulated for other areas of the Agency's operation. Instead of the existing budgetary resources, it is ensured that the payments are made by entities carrying out transport services on public rail infrastructure, so-called carriers in the Republic of Slovenia, and by the payment of the infrastructure manager. The current size of the part of the regulatory authority provides for an annual cost of 180 000, of which 70:30 will be provided by the carrier and the operator. However, from 1 May 2012 until the start of the financing of the regulatory authority, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space will, in accordance with the amendment of this Act, provide EUR 226 000 87 in full for the direct costs and indirect costs of the common services and other costs of the Agency. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Rail Transport Act also transposes into the Slovenian legal order the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings and the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between rail passenger transport activities as a public service to any other business, which is one of the key requirements of the formal notice. The proposal for a law also contains solutions for determining the registered office of an economic company authorised to manage investments in public railway infrastructure. The legal provision of the seat is not necessary as such an obligation is not of particular importance for its functioning. The seat shall be established by setting up a company. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which cover areas in which the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out in its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 8th meeting, on 26 June 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. At its 56th meeting, on 7 June 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. In the course of the business period, amendments were tabled by the Group of Social Democrats to the 2nd Article and the Group of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners by Articles 4, 6 and 7. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Magi Space shall be the Secretary of State. Bojan Christmas highlighted the basic objectives and solutions of the bill. The draft law transposes the definition of railway undertakings and thus aligns Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation and partially amends and complements Article 21 which defines the tasks of the assigning and security authority. The aim of the bill is also to harmonise with the legal order of the European Union on the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings. In addition, there is a ban on the transfer of public funds between rail passenger activities as public services to activities relating to the provision of other transport services or to any other business. The proposal also seeks to remove additional administrative obstacles that could arise in the possible change of the seat of the company authorised to conduct investments in public railway infrastructure. Finally, he stressed that the drafter supported the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups following the comments of the legislative and legal service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the proposal for a law had been examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and focused mainly on the issue of changes related to the financing of the regulatory authority through the payments of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In doing so, he pointed out that the Commission took note of the opinion of the Slovenian Railway Company, Infrastructure d.o.o., that, more than a year ago, they had put forward an initiative to regulate certain issues which were not taken into account in the proposal for a law. He stressed that, in view of the concerns presented, the Commission had expressed its expectation that they would be examined and taken into account by the proposer. In the debate, the SD Group presented an amendment to Article 2, which aims to prevent the deletion of the provision of Article 13a, paragraph 4, of the current law, which provides that an economic company operating an investment management activity in a public railway infrastructure is established in Maribor. However, the representative of the applicant explained in relation to that provision that it was proposed to delete the company’s seat in a particular case because they considered that the substance was not part of the legal text but of the founding act of the company. The Committee then adopted amendments of the Group of Social Democrats to the 2nd Article and to the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons by Articles 4, 6 and 7. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u26	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State with his fellow Members and Members! The short-term procedure of the proposed Rail Transport Act aims to adapt Slovenian legislation to the EU legislative framework, also so that the European Commission does not initiate further activities as a result of a breach of the transposition obligation into the Slovenian legal order. With the proposal for a law, we want to basically regulate the legal basis for ensuring the independence of the regulator in the field of rail transport. We also transpose into the Slovenian legal order the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between railway infrastructure managers and railway undertakings and the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between rail passenger transport activities as public services and other transport services activities. Public funds allocated to a specific area of activity shall not be transferred to another area of activity. A legal person carrying out activities related to the management of railway infrastructure and activities related to transport services must ensure that separate statements and balance sheets are drawn up. The results of railway undertakings’ operations are linked to their transport services and the management of railway infrastructure. The results will be more transparent and, in accordance with the provisions on financial operations and disclosures, will also lay down responsibilities for achieving the objectives set by each economic segment. In the debate on the working body of the Member States, the Group of Social Democrats presented the reasons for the amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law. The amendment seeks to prevent the proposed deletion of the provision of Article 13a, paragraph 4, of the current law, which provides that an economic company operating an investment activity in public railway infrastructure is established in Maribor. It was pointed out that despite the legal provision in force concerning the establishment of this company in Maribor, the company transferred its establishment act to Ljubljana and thus circumvented the legal provision. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we do not believe that the legal provision of the seat is necessary, since this determination has no special meaning for its functioning. Such obligations shall not be imposed by law on other legal persons. The seat shall be established by means of an act establishing the company and the legal establishment of the seat shall constitute an additional administrative obstacle to the possible replacement of the seat of the company and an unnecessary restriction. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will confirm the proposed Rail Transport Act, and will also confirm the proposed amendment of Positive Slovenia, by which we wish to exclude from the proposed Rail Transport Act a provision on the establishment of a particular legal person dealing with the railway sector, as provided by the legal provisions on companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Magnificent. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u28	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The European Commission, using an EU questionnaire on the transposition of the Railway Safety Directive, drew attention to the inadequate transposition of provisions relating to the regulatory authority and to the independence of the safety and allocation authority within the framework of the Public Railway Agency. The proposal for a law regulates the responsibility and independence of the performance of the tasks of the safety and allocation authority within the framework of the Public Railway Agency and establishes a legal basis for the financing of the regulatory authority. The draft law also transposes into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between the infrastructure manager, railway undertakings and other activities relating to transport services or other business. This takes into account the findings of the European Commission's official reminder in the judicial procedure for non-implementation or incorrect implementation and incorrect transposition of European Union legal acts. With the introduction of the short-term treatment of the law, the transfer of the prohibition on the transfer of public funds could be carried out as soon as possible and notified to the European Commission before further activities could be initiated as a result of a breach of the transposition obligation of that Directive. The main solutions related to the transposition of Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia are: the introduction of a ban on the transfer of public funds between the railway infrastructure manager and railway undertakings and requirements for separate management, production and publication of statements and balances, the introduction of a ban on the transfer of public funds between activities relating to the provision of passenger transport by rail as a public service to activities relating to the provision of other transport services or to any other business, and requirements for the separate management of the production and publication of statements and balances. We will not oppose the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but we point out that the Ministry should try and fully prepare a new law, not every time sending a law to Parliament with minor additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk will now present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! We will vote in favour of the amendment to the Rail Transport Act in the Group of Social Democrats. Its main objective is to adapt Slovenian legislation to the legislative framework of the European Union and by adopting it we will lay the legal basis for independence and a new way of financing the functioning of the regulator in the field of rail transport, which the European Commission reminds us of. By incorporating the regulatory authority into the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which later transformed into the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, it has decided to ensure, instead of the budgetary resources so far, the operation of the payments made by entities carrying out transport services in rail, namely carriers on public railway infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, and the payment of the infrastructure manager. All other areas regulated by the Agency shall also be financed by the payment of the entities whose operation is regulated. The proposed supplement provides a legal basis for a new method of financing the regulatory authority and for the issuance of an implementing regulation that will further regulate the way in which payments are calculated and settled. In this way, the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings and the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between rail passenger transport activities as public service activities to other transport services or to any other business shall be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. It is important that the amendment of the law is adopted as soon as possible so that the transfer of the ban on the transfer of public funds can be carried out as soon as possible. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore support and understand that this is to be adopted as soon as possible due to the proposed solutions, which constitute an adaptation of Slovenian legislation to the European Union's legislation; therefore, between the possible further activities of the European Commission due to the breach of Slovenia's obligation to transpose the said narrative. And also on the amendment of the Group of Positive Slovenia. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not overwhelmingly oppose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, Slovenia has committed itself to respect the rule of law of the European Community. Thus, we are also obliged to harmonise our legislation in due time in the course of amending European legislation, which is the main part of the proposed amendment to the Rail Transport Act. While this harmonisation has already been implemented by Slovenia, according to the European Commission, individual provisions on the prohibition of the transfer of funds between railway undertakings and public railway infrastructure operators, as well as the financing of the regulatory authority, have not been properly transferred. The government has thus drawn up a new proposal that provides for clearer provisions regarding the independent functioning and the financing of the regulatory authority itself. In Slovenia, we have the funding of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, which carries out the tasks of the regulatory authority in the field of electronic communications, postal services, radio and television activities, which are already properly regulated, financed by the bodies under supervision. This is also followed by this proposal, which provides that the financing of the activities of the regulatory authority in the field of rail transport shall be provided by the payment of transport service providers on public railway infrastructure and the manager of that infrastructure, in a ratio of 70 to 30. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Rail Transport Act also transposes into the Slovenian legal order the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings and the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between rail passenger transport activities as a public service to any other business. Since proceedings against Slovenia are already under way with the European Commission for breach of the obligation to transpose directives into the Slovenian legal order, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided not to open other issues and dilemmas in this proposal. The new, fourth railway package prepared by the European Commission will require renewed reflection on all areas of rail transport. In the Citizens' List, we will support the bill and we expect the Government to update the national programme for the development of public rail infrastructure as soon as possible and to begin rapidly with the implementation of the necessary infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u34	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Vice-President, Ministry Representative! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act, which we are considering in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government following a reduced procedure, is, as the proposaler explains, related to compliance with the acquis of the European Union. As we see from the proposed amendments, it is less difficult to harmonise the law. The introductory explanations also suggest that this is primarily the elimination of the irregularity of the transposition of the European Railway Safety Directive. That Directive provides in Article 30 that Member States should establish a regulatory body which is financial, legal and independent of railway infrastructure managers, as well as railway operators, when deciding. Within the meaning of this provision, the responsibility of managing the tasks of the regulatory authority has been delegated by the Ministry to the Agency. Today the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia plays this role. The European Commission, in its action, makes clear the insufficient financial independence of this regulatory authority, which makes sense to remedy as soon as possible. The European Commission also had comments on the transposition of the Railway Safety Directive, as Slovenia incorrectly defined railway undertakings and unnecessarily limited them to those with licences. The draft law also takes into account the Commission's comments on the provisions on the independence of the safety and the granting authority within the framework of the Public Railway Agency. The draft law also transposes into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between the infrastructure manager, railway undertakings and other activities relating to transport services or other business. Since this is the stage of the European Union's official reminder, it is reasonable to adopt the law in a reduced manner and thus ensure the notification of this law in due time before the further infringement procedure. We will vote in favour of the proposed proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Railway Safety Act aligns Slovenian legislation with European Union legislation. The definition of railway undertaking shall be carried out, amended and supplemented by the tasks of the assigning and security authority and the allocation of tasks between the two, ensuring that the internal authorities of the Agency carry out their tasks separately and independently. The next objective of the bill is to harmonise with the legal order of the European Union on the prohibition of the transfer of public funds between the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings. In addition, there is a ban on the transfer of public funds between rail passenger transport activities as public services to activities relating to the provision of other transport services or to any other business. The proposal seeks to remove additional administrative obstacles that would arise in the possible change of the seat of the company authorised to conduct investments in public railway infrastructure, and therefore the amendment provides that an economic company operating in the management of public railway infrastructure is established in Maribor. In this connection, the amendment to this Article was presented on the home working body. It was pointed out that the amendment should be supported because, despite the legal provision in force concerning the establishment of this company in Maribor, it transferred its seat to Ljubljana in its creation act and thus circumvented a clear legal provision. We supported the proposed amendment by the members of the home labour body, because we considered that placing important state institutions and state-owned companies at a location outside Ljubljana was an important step towards decentralisation and a more equitable development of the whole of Slovenia. In today's consideration, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, where that provision is again deleted, means that we leave the establishment of the company's seat to the founding act of this company. In the DeSUS Group, we found ourselves in quite a dilemma. On the one hand, we are aware of the importance of decentralisation, so first we supported the above-mentioned amendment, which in the marriage text kept its seat in Maribor. However, we believe that the law is not a suitable place to determine the seat of society. I would also like to point out that the possible relocation of the company's headquarters in Maribor would also result in significant costs – around EUR 2 million has been calculated. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported this time by the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, which deletes the establishment of the company's seat in Maribor, as we have listened to the Ministry's professional and financial arguments. We will also support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u38	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! In New Slovenia, we wrote in our programme that the objectives of our transport policy should be to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, day-to-day migration by public means of transport, thereby contributing to emission reductions and also to redirect goods to railways, thus regulating the main transport routes of daily migration. This is one provision from our program. Now, what does this novel mean? The amendments introduced in the field of rail transport are due to the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with European legislation and concern in particular the work of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, which will be called the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia. You heard right, I was a little surprised myself, but this agency also includes railways or rail transport. There was also an extensive discussion on whether the Agency should be stationed in Ljubljana or Maribor with regard to the head office of this company. In its act establishing its seat, the Agency transferred its seat to Ljubljana and thus bypassed the legal provision. The Government considers that the legal definition of where an individual company is to be established is not necessary and does not fall within the law and therefore proposes deleting this provision. Nevertheless, an amendment was adopted on the Infrastructure Committee, which provides that the Agency's headquarters should remain in Maribor. We also support this in Novi Slovenija. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal of the novel, while we believe that we should determine that the seat of the company in Maribor should be respected at first. It is true that some important state institutions are also located outside the capital and thus contribute to more equitable regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 11 July 2013. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Opening login options. Mr Matevž Frangež entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is necessary to go a little back in history in order to understand some of us who are opposed to deleting the provision of this law, which says that it is the seat of a society in Maribor. First of all, what kind of company is this? It is a company authorised under this law to conduct investments in public rail infrastructure. In fact, we were able to get this supplement into law, and I think that in 2010, when it was shown that the current Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure, which was established in Maribor, will be joined by DDC, the Society for State Roads, in order to strengthen the teaming of designers due to the increased tasks and ambitions of the State in investing in public rail infrastructure and in modernising the railway network. At that time we tabled an amendment to Article 13a of this Law and reached that it was unequivocally stated in the law that the Company for Investment Management in Public Railway Infrastructure was established in Maribor. Well, later, after the merger of the DDC and the then Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure into a company called the DRI today, the legal provision was respected at first, and at the end of last year, at the DRI Assembly, the then capital investment management agency under the leadership of Mr Ješovnik and the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was amended by an act establishing this company, which, contrary to the explicit determination of this law, moved the company to Ljubljana. Hence, the government, of course, recently sent a law to the National Assembly, which, among other things, ruled out an unnecessary legal provision. Once again, the seat of the company was first in Maribor and then the managers of this company, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, illegally moved to Ljubljana against the explicit provision of the law. I can understand the practical reasons why 200 people are employed in the DRI in Ljubljana and 20 in Maribor, but institutional decentralisation can only be achieved in this country if there is a strong political will to do so. Therefore, for example, when the former PTT company was shared, the will to transfer the seat of Post Slovenia to Maribor was formed. As a result, when the Law established the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, it was the will to be established in Celje. Unfortunately, too in the Dars case, it is only a dead letter on paper because there is an empty building in Celje, a house of ghosts where Darsa's official headquarters is, perhaps a ficus and some secretary, and all business functions and jobs are concentrated in Ljubljana. It's a waste of law, it's a violation of the will of the legislative body. This is a violation of the will of the National Assembly. And such will was undeniably expressed also in the case of the Rail Transport Act which placed the seat of this company in Maribor. This will should be respected because any other course of action is illegal. Of course, the government is now talking about the fact that the law does not consider this to be a matter to be regulated by the Act establishing a society and similar formalisms. How many cases do you recall that in the law of a certain society we have established the composition of the Governing Council? Finally, according to the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bank Stability Act, where we have designated the authorities of the Bank Claims Management Company and so on. These are also the same status components, and there we had no bad news to write them into the law; here, where the seat is established, it is suddenly necessary to resist such ambitions of legislators. It's unacceptable to me. Of course, in these formal aspects, there is still a completely substantive aspect. Maribor is the traditional seat of the electricity industry. In 2002, there was a strong movement in Maribor to put this holding company in Maribor at the time of the establishment of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. The then Minister Kopač said, "Well, the Mariborians, what you're complicating, that's going to be four jobs!" Today, 140 people are employed in the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and the company is established in Ljubljana. In a professional way, the Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure has carried out the tasks of modernising and restoring our public rail network. I'd like to know what the results of years ago were brought together. Above all, in all the debates on costs, the colleague mentioned a few million costs, and in some calculations the government said that moving from Ljubljana to Maribor, and actually moving from Maribor to Ljubljana, would cost half a million euros. All of these are wrong numbers because no one claims to be employed by the DRI, who work in Ljubljana, will drive to Maribor. However, it is expected that the Government, as the founder and as the assembly of this company, will respect the legislator's will and, in Maribor, where the company's seat is located, will place key business functions. That is why I will oppose the amendment of Positive Slovenia. I think the legalisation of illegal conduct, without listening to the political development of the country, is without heed for the necessary institutional decentralisation in the country. I am aware that 20 jobs in Maribor will not save anything and I assure you that even these 20 jobs, regardless of whether the company will get its seat in Ljubljana, are not at risk, but this is more than a symbolic message! Where important state institutions are established, quality jobs, jobs with higher added value and jobs belonging to higher pay grade are also created. I argue that the cost of travelling from Ljubljana to Maribor costs more than the cost of travelling from Maribor to Ljubljana, I do not accept. Every day on the highway I meet the same people; the same people who drive to Ljubljana from Maribor and other parts of northeast Slovenia; thousands and thousands of people travel every day because they do not find a suitable job in their home town, they travel to the capital. Will we tolerate this for a long time, that opportunities in this country will be limited only to Ljubljana? These are among the reasons why I will vote against this amendment after I was very pleased that we were able to delete the proposed text at the Committee's home meeting. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. I'm asking if there's still a desire to discuss it. I'll give you a chance to sign up, please. We have two other panellists reported as the first mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well, you don't have to be overly curious about what I'm going to say. It is perfectly understandable that I will act in this amendment as my fellow Member, Matevž Frangež, and I will oppose the amendment of Positive Slovenia. He reminded me of 2002 and of the fact that there are several other members of the National Assembly from Styria, and today there are none more in the Chamber – today only – when, regardless of political affiliation, we opposed the transfer of the seat of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants from Maribor to Ljubljana. It was said what was happening and how it happened, there were very strong arguments for the holding company's seat to remain in Maribor, and they moved it and what a historian it was, we know. Well, then it happened that the post office has its seat in Maribor, as a user of the services of Slovenian Railways I often drive by train and I must say that I have several constant passengers on the train and migrations today run in every direction, but obviously from Ljubljana to Maribor is not as far as it is from Maribor to Ljubljana and that is why some lose these opportunities to be employed outside of their place. It's more than a symbolic act, it's something that has to do with marriage, and I would say that after all these years, I have quite an experience with it: if we don't want to do something, then we say that we don't write it in the law, it's going to solve a sub-legal act or a founding act. If we want to say something directly, we write it down. I'll tell you from one more experience. Today we will adopt a resolution on language policy, and before that we have adopted the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. And there is also an article that tells us that Slovenian is an official and learning language in higher education. But it's supposed to be in the university statutes. Go see what is in the statutes of universities and how it is in the statutes of universities that we would like to write down what else in the statutes of universities if only individuals decide on it. And I could also give you an example of what we have left behind under-laws or regulations in the founding acts when we were not prepared to write anything clearly. I therefore believe that what the law has commanded must be respected and that is why I will oppose the amendment of Positive Slovenia. It is interesting, however, that the left option is the one moving from Maribor to Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Majdi Potter. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u44	I have already mentioned, in the position of the Group of Members, that we will confirm and also agree with the adoption, and, like my colleague who was before me, I am surprised and, in a way, very sad that what has been agreed on by the Committee is obviously collapsing now in the National Assembly. Our fellow Member, Janez Rybič, who also comes from the Moroccan end, and we agreed that not only three Mariborians would talk about this, but also someone from Posavje. And I fully agree with my predecessors and I feel that such an amendment is totally unnecessary, but it shows how the Government, on the grounds that the reduced procedure is mainly in the actions brought against us by the European Commission, is still correcting the provision by which one of the administrations operating outside Ljubljana, has, by the way, moved back to the capital. I also have quite a lot of experience in this area from the past. As mayor in Krske, I must say that, together with my colleagues who have already mentioned the energy sector today, there was a similar battle in the establishment of the Faculty of Energy in Krske. At the time we had to connect together, the Maribor Rector, then Mr Ludvik Toplak, then the Grand Mayor, Mr Srečko Meh, the Krščko Mayor, this was the only time that we were able to convince universal Ljubljana that even on a periphery, within the framework of the University of Maribor, there is a university based in Krk and with a location in Velenje. I have to say that I had a very strange conversation at the time with Mr. Mencinger, the rector of the University of Ljubljana at the time, and after that conversation, it was much easier for me to understand the thinking of the centralists, who can't imagine in any way that in some way, according to him, I had this feeling at the time that he was thinking to the corner of Krk, he was living some kind of college. Today I can say that we celebrated the fifth anniversary together, 90 per cent of the graduates are immediately after the completion of their degree in employment, of those 90%, in energy, in the economy, where we located them, in those places where they belong. In Maribor, it has been proven by Mail Slovenia that when the Post Office of Slovenia is likely to have more mail in Ljubljana than in Maribor, it works very well if it is located in Maribor, and I am confident that those who make politics in this rail transport and in this policy can work honestly to support the development of such an agency in Maribor so that it can develop. But if you want to play it just because of some decision in the National Assembly in the way it has already been mentioned, you see the Dars case where everything has actually moved to Ljubljana. I'm very afraid that's the wrong policy. When colleagues spoke about these routes from Ljubljana to Maribor, or if I mentioned myself from Kršek to Ljubljana, I can say that those who are driving in the opposite direction, from Ljubljana to Krško – there are quite a few who are now walking – or if they were going from Ljubljana to Maribor, they were much better, because there is no traffic in that direction when they drive from Ljubljana to Maribor or from Ljubljana to Krška, but they are in the opposite direction. I think we would also gain something in transport, so from a logistical point of view it is also an appropriate direction. That's a little bit of a joke, too. I think it would be right for us in the National Assembly to be truly aware of what regional development means, what it means to develop Slovenia evenly in such decisions – not in those decisions when we move through the conversation that the President of Positive Slovenia has now conducted with the Mayor of Maribor, how we will share the assistance. Let us make this very concrete! Let people have work and work and, unfortunately, these people have to drive to a large extent or against Ljubljana, which has become even more modern lately or is probably worth more and more –over Slovenian borders. If we are going to make these minor mistakes with such moves and opportunities as we have today, because twenty intellectual jobs in one Maribor and in Krška are much more important. This is the number of people who can spend three or four hours a day beating and leaving for the operation of their home town, or they get tired on Slovenian roads, railways. I think you still have the possibility and I would understand that, based on the arguments they are holding, the amendment's proponents would symbolically show that even in Positive Slovenia there is something else to talk about as about Ljubljana – a little joke again, a little bit, really, that there will not be too much of a witty session. Otherwise, I think we would do something for the Maribor end and also at the symbolic level show that we can understand what the polycentric development of Slovenia means. We will be unitedly opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. Is there still a desire to discuss it? There is. I'll open the door. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three other panellists reported. Mr Jože Velikonja was first reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I have to agree with much of the discussions of my predecessors, because I am not from Ljubljana myself, however. I would like to point out something that has already been highlighted in our presentation of the Group's position that we are following this amendment from the Ministry's proposal that the establishment of the company should not be part of the law, but rather of the act establishing the society. And the actions that have been committed in the past as illegal are not the matter of this amendment. We are also not legalising this act, but we are giving the opportunity to the owner to decide later on to amend the act on the establishment of the company through his management authorities and, in my personal opinion, the seat can also be located in Maribor, if all economic indicators show it, as well as if we are following the regional development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! I believe that whenever themes are opened that are extremely important for an individual MP coming from that environment, it is a topic on which I will say, sometimes too populist to build. And I'm going to say a little joke, and I said it on the committee, and I think it's also one of the coalition coordinations, and let's go halfway and raise my hand because I'm coming from Trbovlje, the Sava region that we know is above average at risk of over-average unemployment. We are trying, the government is preparing intervention measures to solve the problem of three Sava municipalities facing 19-20% unemployment. And if anyone wants to make it clear today that Positive Slovenia is the one who insists on the centralisation of this country in every way, I will tell him, to say the least, that he is honestly wrong. Positive Slovenia is the one who really listened to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which basically came with such a legal solution. And the positive Slovenia is the one who listened to the amendment tabled by fellow Member Frangež or SD on the committee, if I am not mistaken. And Positive Slovenia is the one who proposed before the vote a break for consultation with the Secretary of State. At that time we made a decision, the decision was to simply leave the marriage solution the way it was in the basic law. It is said that the company maintains its seat in Maribor. But then there were additional coordinations, additional explanations that simply — what our dilemma was on the committee at the time — let’s be honest — society’s seat does not belong to law. And we have listened – I still have problems with this, I admit, precisely because of this symbolic level of symbolic communication – we have listened to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which insists that the seat in the law be deleted. This does not mean that the law determines that the seat of the company is to be moved from Maribor to Ljubljana, is not true! This was determined by the Act of Establishment and those who were sitting in the government at the time – if I am not mistaken, Mr Bogovič was also part of that government which confirmed that in the act establishing the company's seat in Ljubljana – they today bear part of the responsibility and it is unfair to read Positive Slovenia or anyone who cares only Ljubljana. I am part of Positive Slovenia, and believe that I am an extremely loud advocate and have also been successful in a number of procedures that the Zasavska region – Trbovlje, Hrastnik, Zagorje – have not lost important state institutions. As I am aware — yes, I am aware that this means added value for that place. But the government of Janez Janša was the government that wanted to delete everything on the list, including those state institutions that were vital to maintaining security and protection in a region. At that time you supported, not the exam centre, then you supported the abolition of the regional information centres at 112; but we were able to stop, precisely because we are advocates of decentralisation, that all regions, all places deserve, I will say, somehow balanced access to these state institutions and thus to development. Because I believe that the seat of a state institution, as a result, also means more opportunities for the development of a place and greater accessibility. I therefore believe, once again, that there can be very loud speakers talking about decentralisation, and it is important what each individual can do and what it is and what it will do on behalf of the decentralisation of the country. Personally, I also say that if 20 jobs solve the situation of Maribor, but I believe it will not be, I am the first to sign. I also voted on the committee against such a solution, but once again, I would like to say that it was subsequently decided and tabled in coordination and consultation with the Minister, but that the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia decided and tabled an amendment which did not move the company from Maribor to Ljubljana, that is important, but only to delete in the law the provision that the company was established in Maribor, explaining that the seat of the company is not subject to law. I hope I've made myself clear enough, I'm defending this position, I'm standing in this position. It is this: how Members will decide and how they will vote when the amendment is in the vote, and we will see tomorrow evening when the vote is on the agenda. Monday, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. As the last in this round is reported by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from Duplek, who is also in Styria, and I am here today, of course, with the desire to contribute to this decentralisation, for which I would give everything and do everything and I also decided to do it, because I have run for office to help develop Slovenia evenly here in the National Assembly. Years ago, when we were able to move this seat to Maribor, we see today when it is all centralised so that from where there is something else, we can move it elsewhere. I am very pleased that we have heard today, and I support the debate of Mr Frangež, who has deepened, and of Mrs Potrate and also of Mr Bogovic, that we understand what decentralisation means. What does it mean, driving to one point every day to work. I don't understand those who advocate some other issue. I understand that Positive Slovenia is Ljubljana. It's definitely Ljubljana. Those who were lucky to have you from other parts of this party were lucky, and now they have to do so if not, but you will be in the next elections elsewhere. But let's try to do something to decentralize! And what it is doesn't hurt anyone, we don't do anything new! I'm really going to oppose this amendment! I am pleased that we are slowly coming to the realization that we are also parties, left and right, or Members of Parliament, thinking that we want to do something good. I would therefore like to thank all those who in this direction help to keep this seat in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Mr. Franzege. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u52	No, 20 jobs won't save Maribor. 20 more and 20 more and maybe 20 more are already an important solution. One job for the individual who gets the opportunity in this job changes the world, not just the city. Once again: the debate repeats formal reasons, if "we do not move the seat of society from Maribor to Ljubljana, we just think that the legal seat does not belong." This de facto means that the seat of the company will be in Ljubljana. This directly means that we are moving from Maribor to Ljubljana! What has already been done is illegal! And all those who say this does not belong to marriage — God loves them! Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek negotiated with former Finance Minister Janez Šuštersič on behalf of Positive Slovenia when she was still in these parliamentary benches. On the constituents of the Act establishing the Slovenian State holding company, not on the matrimonial matter. Since the question of how many members of the Supervisory Board a company has is the substance of the act establishing and not the law. And I expect you to be consistent. I expect you to propose novels of all those laws that determine the status of individual companies in the country. Well, then let's see if you're serious! No! No! There is a clear ambition here; the ambition to bring the legal situation in line with the actual situation. The reality is that the seat of this society has already been illegally, illegally moved to Ljubljana and now that we will not have bad conscience because there is something in conflict with the law, we are trying to reconcile it. Everything else is just excuses, and I regret it. Perhaps this, for the Slovenian situation, even for Maribor, is a relatively insignificant amendment, but it is a good opportunity to talk about whether we will live in Ljubljana alone, whether we will have opportunities in Ljubljana alone, or if we will develop all parts of Slovenia accordingly. In doing so, the country has a role to play and the country has the task of ensuring the polycentric development of all places in Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. There's a sous-chef in the replica, isn't there? [[...]] Okay. Then Mr Bogovic is also reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u54	Yesterday, Positive Slovenia managed to fix everything we did wrong in last year's budget. I congratulate you and I really wish that the choices were right and that this would save Slovenia. Today's your chance to fix this stupid thing that we obviously did. So you have the opportunity, Mrs Tavš, to do this and to show yourself in the right light, like those who are striving for regional development. I myself feel quite competent when I speak about how I have been able to advocate regional development in the client and also as an individual in certain functions, and I know roughly what the price is and what people need to be convinced of. I've mentioned this before to the university. Let's look at the proceeds: the Lower and the Krški Congregation – as I said, the universities are successful, the people are employed – these colleges finance one third of them in the first five years; because they are on the periphery because someone didn't recognize that a graduate from this college is as valuable as someone else, and we're still fighting, and that's the mantra that we're fighting even if you want, with university material. On the other hand, such jobs – not underestimating 20 jobs, as colleague Frangež said, we were able to bring foreign investors into the space, each job is worth gold. Such jobs, which are jobs, where an intellectual charge is also collected, have a multiple effect in space. That is why, in these debates, it would have been more than just another – so I wanted to say this earlier in the debate and obviously not understood – it was more of a provocation, but I think we are talking about a very serious matter. Not to be underestimated if, instead of through regional aid, a contribution to the region of Maribor and Styria could be made through such jobs. So once again, I will oppose the amendment proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have the floor for her, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much again for your word. Look, the fact is, every job counts. Believe me, if anyone understands how important every job is, we understand those Members who come from extremely endangered areas. Believe me, I know, that's why we fought with the Minister for the Economy to solve, you'll remember, the issue of Svea when some of you saw how irrelevant state aid is. At the time, 180 jobs were kept. At that time, some of the opposition told us that in the wrong way we were saving because it doesn't matter, the company that had to fail had to fail. In this case, however, we are not talking about the abolition of jobs. I believe that because of this law and this amendment, no job will be abolished if I am mistaken, Madam Secretary of State, please correct me and give me the correct numbers. Once again, yes, some mistake has been made in the past. I believe that the basic law stated for a reason that the seat of the company was in Maribor. I believe that for a reason; for what reason, political reason, I do not know. But as we have been explained; and believe me, we have highlighted all of this in committee discussions and in a number of coalition coordinations, which have only been so much about this amendment that I do not know if we were able to carry out any law with so many coalition coordinations when we had serious dilemmas and concerns. But then it was very clear to us that society had not lived in Maribor as it should have lived; and secondly, that the seat of society did not belong to the law. It is true that a mistake has been made in the past because an act establishing an act has been passed, an amendment to the Act of Establishment, where it is stated that it is the seat of the company in Ljubljana. I would like to make it clear, once again, that the amendment tabled by Positive Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure following the intervention of the Minister of Infrastructure does not preclude the establishment of a company in Maribor following this proposal. The seat of the company is recorded in the creation act, which clearly states that it is the seat of the company in Ljubljana. So we don't change anything with this law. Nothing! If I am mistaken, I ask the Secretary of State to join the debate and help with specific information. I believe that it will be easier for everyone to make a final decision, because otherwise everything seems to be too much of a politicisation in this amendment, which is, I believe, unnecessary at this point. But it is true that at this point in such a trivial matter to sharpen – I don’t think it makes sense. I am absolutely ready to step back, not least I have shown on the working body itself that I am ready to compromise and that I can listen to warnings if the warnings are valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the floor now. Here you go. I'll open the debate later.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Every job counts. In fact, I used that in my discussion yesterday on another subject. With the symbolic message of this amendment, I also have a problem, not because I come from Montenegro, but because I simply honestly believe that decentralisation is the right direction in Slovenia. However, we must also look at the professional side of this decision, and, as the Minister has said, this divided society is not functioning well and, in the light of the fact that our objective is the effective functioning of all public institutions, I will follow the professional opinion of the Minister. Politically, it would probably be easier for him to make a different decision, but in this case I will support this professional decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragan Bosic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I think all the Maribors are coming, and I'll take it. In view of what I've been listening to, and given this claim for Maribor, I don't even know why Maribor is here today. I'm honestly surprised to hear so many beautiful thoughts, so many solutions I don't know what. Then I return to Maribor at night or night and see Maribor as it is. There are two things that bother me. One is the flat rate, which was expressed here about Positive Slovenia, is said about I don't know. [[...]] I started with an idea; in short, I talk, I let myself be convinced and I make my own decisions. In this case, I will. But my definition isn't crucial. So, mine's intimate. If it gets intimately public, if it's intimately public because it's popular, it's another story. The same was true in the case of the road to Gruškov. I've just supported these efforts of my colleague. But I support it by pressing "for" here, and I don't have a problem with that. So, I don't have a problem with that either, and then I call someone and I say, "Hey, hello, what happened to the fish, you know, that's what I supported." So I'll do the same in this case. I will listen to the matter to the end, I will listen to the gentleman, who will probably have something else to say, and I will make my decision or I will make my decision the way I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this round and reopen the debate that anyone wants to apply. Here you go. The application shall be made. We have four other panellists registered. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik was first reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. The law, when we accept it, we want to solve it systemically. If we always write places in the law, we can also write streets and institutions and eventually names. If we are to write in law that he is established in Maribor, then we will still have to amend the creation act, because the creation act says "Ljubljana". But if we don't write the name of the place where the seat is supposed to be, we can change the creation act anyway. And then we can write "Maribor" in the creation act. There's no problem here. You know, when we talk about jobs and what it would be like and where we have certain universities, colleges where we have these and different staffs, today we can find that there is a university in Maribor that produces a lot of good staff with diplomas, with names and so on. But what did those shots do to you? They set up a new job, set up a company? This means that it is not a problem either in personnel or in marriage, but the problem is also in our thinking and in our willingness to work. I also respond to the cynical statement by my colleague Bogovic, whom I appreciate very much, but he said that yesterday in Positive Slovenia we adopted a resolution or budget rebalancing – in Positive Slovenia we adopted. No, no, no. We accepted it here in the National Assembly, a coalition with which we will solve all problems in Slovenia. Please, come on! We did not say by no means that we will save, but that we are saving what you have written wrongly into the budget, not because we want to write it that way, but because the situation has changed because it is necessary to adapt to the situation. That's how we adapt today. By amending the law, we are adapting a situation that is not what it should be. As colleague Barbara said, look, it was you who changed this act of creation and then you didn't care about Maribor. That's when you wrote "Ljubljana". Me and everyone here, which is also important to Maribor, important Velenje, important Krško, important every place that is in Slovenia. Gorica, too, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko is next in line with his statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u64	Hello, everybody! Proof that positive people or members of Positive Slovenia are not only coming from a developed Ljubljana, I am proof that I come from an undeveloped Prekmurje and from this point of view I will always go towards centralisation. I must admit, I also have a reservation and a problem with this amendment, even though I did not participate in it. The amendment, which speaks of the fact that determining the seat of society is not a matter of the law under consideration, I took it as such, I would say, as an innocent. When I heard today that the talk is mainly about the effectiveness of the functioning of society in Maribor, I do have a thought if it is not a classic takeover of this part of society in Ljubljana. If that's what moving means, I'm going to oppose this amendment myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I think some things are going wrong. If there is a conflict between a law and an act that is the result of a law, we probably do not change the law, but correct what is contrary to the law. If you found that the act of establishing in violation of the law was not in accordance with the law, then your coalition would easily correct it in the light of the power it has, which it also demonstrates, and thus not tire of the National Assembly. Easy. You don't need any big words. If we had initiated any process of compliance with the law, it would also have been found by an independent institution and it seems to me that what is being done in the National Assembly is being adapted to some error that has occurred, however, where and when, as a result, the law is being corrected, that the path is completely wrong and depressed. Secondly, however, I must say that it seems important to me that institutions of national importance also disperse slightly. I think it is unworthy that such a centralisation is being carried out, that, in fact, every important institution that is in Ljubljana is, if there is to be somewhere else, and so it is made to be blocked there and is also not in Ljubljana. We also have cases like this, and I've seen one of these myself, but that seems awful bad to me. All those who say you're talking about this dispersion of institutions in the country being important, you're right. You're right, because it's the only way to stop a brain escape, either to the main center of the country or maybe a brain escape, either against Castle or somewhere else. We are largely victims of this endless centralism of the city of Ljubljana, the metropolis and everywhere else things are harder to succeed. If, even in the past, ever more of these things were to be looked at in a different way to disperse things, perhaps Slovenia would be more balanced. Probably would be. Styria would be in a different situation than she is now. But in this eternal match between the largest and second largest cities, Maribor has always briefly pulled and I think this is a big problem. We should also think of the fact that the European funds that are being drawn up are largely intended for these cohesion projects, compensatory projects, but that when the adopted budget gave up European funds, including cohesion funds, further hampers the possibility of connecting peripheral landscapes to the level of the capital. Additional weakening of rural areas or other places other than metropolis is this. Directly. No big word helps if such projects are removed from the budget if they are reduced, as this also reduces the possibility that these parts of Slovenia will join the level of Slovenia, which Slovenia has, or as its most important region has, Slovenia with its surroundings. And there's another problem. The moment that it succeeded in Maribor to overthrow Mr. Kangler, the mayor who was one of the most motivated to introduce a provision in the law where he is established, you opened the way to all other possible changes in this area, not only at the headquarters of this agency, but also in other matters. Because now, on the other hand, there is no more fighter to fight for the interests of Styria who would have an influence that would have power. This is a direct consequence, this is a tax on what happened and what is happening in this work. And there might be a lot more to know. What is the content of an act, say a law or not, is determined by the legislator. That is what we decided when we voted in the National Assembly on the content of the law. Not without a reason. Because the reasons why this is so stated in this law are now coming. That's why it's written in the law. Otherwise, at a level that is distant from the public’s eyes, there may be many things to do, perhaps in some case or even in this case in a not so distant past. In short, we will not support this amendment, we are in favour of remaining in this part the original text of the law and leaving certain participations to other regions in this country at the seats or at the seats of institutions of national importance. Even with all these other intentions that may still arise in this coalition, some are already foretold, and it is likely to happen in the same way as in this case. To centralise everything, to get everything as close as possible to the one with the largest local budget in this country, to provide new jobs, over-extensions and burdens, while, in other words, vice versa, there is a tax regime where you anticipate heavy burdens on empty rural facilities and so on. This is the inverse of this, and this is the tax on such a decision even then, twice as punishment, by losing their seat to lose the possibility of development, the possibility of jobs; on the other hand, where this exodus is taking place, we tax them for those who have left empty agricultural, economic or other facilities. That's a tax on what you do. I hope that once this frenzy regarding such taxes, such decisions, such penalties as you anticipate, will end so that we will partially stop what is happening at this meeting. Unfortunately, I must conclude that everything is concentrated, that all the efforts of this coalition, and also the previous Pahors, have been focused on the concentration of matters in large cities. Look at the measures taken in the mandate of the previous government, look at the measures you are now proposing In fact, all these measures are those that stimulate a large centre, they are all such; and they are all those that are additionally tax or otherwise burdening clean air and escape from the countryside. [[...]] Those who remain, those who remain there, because there are no other options, for sale, however, are still subject to extra taxation and thus make their economic situation worse. This is the situation we are now witnessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. We have a report of Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I must say that I strongly protest my colleague Ribič's statement that Positive Slovenia is a Ljubljana party. That's not true. From all over Slovenia we are Members here, at the elections the Ljubljana party received 120 thousand votes, 240 thousand or two thirds of us received the rest of Slovenia. In Gorenjska, which is quite far from Ljubljana, and also in Maribor, unfortunately, to your luck. I also drive to Ljubljana every day, and I do not care that there are many services, many organisations in Ljubljana and that there are none in Gorenjska. Regrettably, I cannot agree that this matter is not being rectified or that there is a legal situation that is not actually in practice, because I believe that the Ministry has clearly found that this matter needs to be corrected, and I also agree with my colleague Pavlisic, who says that it has certainly been established what the actual situation is at work and what the organisation itself is. I also believe that any such organisation — whether it is in public administration or privately owned or otherwise — is supervised. If he's in the state administration, with the supervisory board, and he's got the board, and this one, I'll say, he controls or directs and monitors the results of the work. I think that this correction of this seat is precisely the result of finding that the operation and operation does not work. Why do I think that? Because I consulted with the people working there, both in Maribor and in Ljubljana. And I believe and understand the pain of the Moroccan Members. But I'm afraid it's just a political game. The gathering of political points for possible future mayors of Ozira has to say this further: I am in charge of transport policy in the Party of Positive Slovenia. [[...]] I regret to say that this matter, or the SD amendment, continues to be a transport policy that I absolutely disagree with. That is why I think it is right that our amendment of Positive Slovenia gets the required majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pavlich. I saw the hands for the debate. I'm opening the application. We have another debater on file. Mr. Richard Braniselle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My colleague Tanko made the correct diagnosis: it's a detail. We're talking about details now. This detail should never have been written into the law. Never because it's a big anomaly. Because if we write it in there, if it stays in there, it means something else: that the seat can't be anywhere else than there. He can't be in Celje, he can't be in Cyprus until we talk about this detail here again, in the National Assembly. Is the National Assembly designed to discuss details? I don't think so. There are no jobs, colleagues and colleagues in this case. No job is at risk and no job will be abolished and no higher. It's just a mailbox. I believe this is symbolic for Maribor. I believe that; but will this symbolic meaning, this collector, mean anything to Maribor? I think we all need to say, together, all of us who are from the periphery, decisively in this place – and this is not a detail – stop centralisation. But not on details, but on concrete things, on important things, on those that will bring Maribor and others to hundreds of jobs, not post office collectors. I'm just afraid that we're going to adopt a law where we're going to write, say, a railway station in Ribnica in Kočevje. Let's just write that down, if I may be a little provocative, but it's actually details.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u72	Very briefly, because there have been some untruths or deliberate deceptions spoken by one of the opposition's predecessors. It's true that we can write a lot of things in a marriage, but what's important is that we make a move in our heads. When one of my colleagues said before me that if there was a breach of the law or acts by law, there was no change in the law. Absolutely! I agree! But this same man forgot to say that at that time his government had adopted an amendment to the creation act against something that was against the law, where it had written something that was contrary to the law. He forgot to say it – an insignificant detail. He may also have forgotten to say that his former Minister, Chernač, was very clear on the committee that the seat of the company did not belong to the law and that he was backing the solution that Maribor’s seat would be removed from the law. As I understand it, on Monday, when the vote is taken, he will vote differently than he said on the committee at the time. All right. All right. We will also coordinate, and as we will vote, we have heard today that, for the most part, it is our conscience. I'm saying again, I don't know if this amendment is really in place right now. Because there's obviously too much populism in the back, too much politicization. I say that it is wrong to show in this area how indivisible we are and how everyone can get their political points — if they can. It's not right, because marriage is more important. The law was essentially not introduced into the parliamentary procedure because of the removal of the company's seat from the law, but because of its content, including the European directives that are being transposed into our legal order. I believe that the law will help improve rail infrastructure once it is adopted and that this is one such small content segment that is not even relevant in terms of content. It doesn't matter. Once again, I would like to stress for all those who may be watching us and for all those who deliberately deceive with the amendment tabled in the parliamentary procedure following coordination with the Ministry of Infrastructure by Positive Slovenia, despite many concerns within our party. Despite many concerns, this amendment in nature does not change anything and does not abolish any job. For all those who read and say how important every job is. With this amendment, no job is abolished, but I believe that on a symbolic level it is important for everyone coming from Maribor. But in substance, at the moment this amendment does not change anything, the seat of the company is written in the Act of Establishment and it is written there that the seat of the company is in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's still a wish. Mr. Tanko. Maybe someone else? I'm just gonna open up a debate so you can sign up. Here you go. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two other panellists reported. The first is Mrs Kristina Valenčič, then Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. When I've been listening to these discussions, on the one hand, I'm listening to you talk about the detail of arguing about the backdrop of the shadow, and on the other hand, I'm listening to how we're all against centralisation, and how we're looking for systemic solutions. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we adopt a system law on the decentralisation of Slovenia, in which we will write that the capital can have only one ministry, one general administration and so on, and we will have a systemic solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, when she's gone, then insults will be served. To think about what we have in our head – it is probably our problem, not now the problem of Positive Slovenia, unless they are mature; and that is what I fear most. What you're reading to others is a problem primarily for you, because you've spent most of the time that you've announced, I think you've made 25 announcements to yourself for this grinding around this amendment. We probably wouldn't even be involved in the debate if we didn't just spend flowers like you've spent so far. What you've said also shows how the coalition works. Obviously, you have not even managed to unify yourself about how this amendment would be tabled and the largest government party could not reach an agreement with the second, third and fourth government party on the submission of this amendment. This is an approach, and then here, in some insulting way, you get your hands around all the others who, by force of the situation, are discussing it. It seems to me that the matter is actually problematic in this part. As for the content of the law, however, it is up to those who adopt the law, Mr Braniselj. If you write anything else down, there'll be something else in there. In this case, it was written down, and what kind of law do we have that provides for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Barbara Žgainer Tavš applied to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u78	Comrade Tanko, what you have in your head is really your problem, not mine. Thank God. As for the procedure that bothers you, the coalition is so uncoordinated that we didn't even know how to table an amendment. I'll say, yes, that's the price of democracy, I believe you find that hard to understand. And as for the 25 minutes we spent in the debate on just one amendment. Yes, we understand the procedure and the parliamentary procedure, because there is only one amendment that we have the opportunity to discuss, just one amendment, we have spent 25 minutes discussing the one and only amendment tabled in the plenary session. I believe this has put an end to my doubts, Comrade Tanka. Once again, I also wish to those who may have concerns about how we will vote. It was said that Members would vote in their conscience. Yes, the fact is, the substantive amendment does not virtually change anything, but the other is what we communicate with this amendment at the symbolic level; but I hope and wish that, finally, the Secretary of State will also play his role and provide further clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State has already asked for the floor, so I'm giving it to him now. Mr. Mag. Bojan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Perhaps it would start by showing that professional analyses have shown that neglect of the amendment definitely does not last, says they supported the amendment, because at the Ministry we are pursuing competitiveness and because we cannot overlook the situation we are in, as Slovenia has been in, and because every euro is important to us, we cannot overlook that fact. We expect maximum cost efficiency from a state-owned company. The costs that have been revealed today, the costs that would have arisen if the amendment were not supported, are true. They're not up-limited, they're just down-limited. Maybe some history. DRI was created as the legal successor of DDC, which built a new business building in Ljubljana in 2007, six years ago, and in which all the business functions of the company are conducted, I stress. In 2011, the Railway Infrastructure Directorate was abolished by amending the Rail Transport Act. It was decided that the company for the management of investments in railway infrastructure was established in Maribor. The new DRI legally took over the employees of DDC and, irrespective of the fact that the establishment of the seat remained, as before, in Maribor, it did not move. All DDC workers remained in Ljubljana, causing great problems and additional unnecessary costs to society. It would not be rational, in fact, to say that it would be at odds with any current situation, to support the rise in costs, because every euro is important to us if all of these 200 people were to be employed and moved to Maribor. It was not the intention of the Government to open discussions on the company's seat now, because the content of the law is much more important in other aspects. Funny thing is, if you move twice, it's like everything's burned down. In short, the costs and figures shown by the analysis are not negligible. It's a very principled, truly symbolic determination. We still believe that the seat does not belong to the law and that the law does not completely change anything; it is much more in line with the current situation with the act already in force. If so, anything needs to be changed in other areas. It would really be pointless to establish a seat by law now, because, if anything were to prove later, there would be more work to be done on the costs, we would have to amend the law accordingly. Finally, a vote against this could also be a vote to support the European Commission's reminder and the further increase in costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I see you don't. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Monday, 15 July 2013, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rights, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Bojan Kumru, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The safety and safety of road transport are increasingly understood as a basic building block for quality of life. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore acted extremely quickly in the first four months of 2013 and has drafted a proposal to amend the Road Traffic Rules Act, with which it wishes to make it very clear to the public that the most dangerous road traffic behaviour and the most serious infringements, in particular for returnees, will also be subject to the most stringent measures, such as vehicle seizure and detention. Although some data from the road safety analysis this year, such as a reduction in traffic accidents, a reduction in the number of serious and potentially physically damaged traffic accidents, show improvements in road safety, with safety on our roads due to an increase in the number of dead, we cannot be satisfied. Between 1 January and 10 July 2013, according to police data, 58 road users were dead and 55 were killed in the same period last year. The Road Traffic Rules Act is not a magic measure that could fully prevent serious traffic accidents and their consequences, but provides a clear message; a message that there are totally unacceptable serious violations of traffic rules, such as road traffic in the opposite direction, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, and a large overrun of speed in settlements, especially in schools, kindergartens and residential areas. These are actions that will enable the supervisory authorities to apply the most stringent measures. The fines for minor infringements, often due to the current dispersion or inattention of participants in transport, do not change. Nevertheless, we call on all road users to follow the rules responsibly and very carefully and pay particular attention to weaker participants such as pedestrians, cyclists and single-way drivers. The proposal to amend the Road Traffic Rules Act reintroduces a measure that has proved to be an effective measure in the past to prevent serious road traffic consequences. The seizure of a motor vehicle shall be reintroduced to a driver who is caught in the service of a worse offence, thereby ensuring the immediate elimination of a dangerous driver from road traffic and thereby reducing the possibility of causing a traffic accident by such a driver. In view of the effectiveness of the measure, the proposed amendment re-energizes the possibility of impounding a motor vehicle also for infringements of a driving licence without a valid driving licence. An additional set of infringements in Article 23, paragraph 1, shall be taken into account for the seizure of a motor vehicle in a pre-conditional manner, provided that the driver has been caught in a worse offence. In drawing up the provisions on the seizure of a motor vehicle, the Ministry of Transport also sought solutions in terms of fixing exceptions to the seizure of a motor vehicle, in accordance with the proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia. The proposed amendments are governed by the Law on Offences and Not the Law on Road Traffic Rules, and the proposed exceptions are permissible only for the protection of general safety, life and health of people, and return in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Offences may be decided only by a court which can return the seized vehicle to the owner, take it away and destroy it or withdraw it and sell it. The following measure, complemented by the amendment of the law, is the detention of the driver and constitutes a step from preventive treatment to repressive behaviour and constitutes a second stage of action in view of the severity of the consequences that may result from the conduct of individual road users. Article 24 amends slightly the provision relating to the driver’s detention. It allows police officers, despite the fact that there is one of the conditions set out in the first to third points, that is to say the conditions when the motor vehicle driver is not held back to decide to hold the motor driver and thus avoid the worst consequences. In order to ensure safety and smooth traffic at toll stations, the powers of toll controllers are also extended. The draft law gives them powers to exercise control over traffic restrictions, which is discussed in Article 28, the weather, Article 28, and the winter and winter conditions. However, with regard to powers, they may require a view to a particular instrument and shall exclude vehicles which do not comply with those provisions. The new law also regulates the following: it adds an interpretation of three terms: one-way vehicle, a two-track vehicle and a directional vehicle; it makes it clear on which roads the municipality's radars can control and regulate traffic; and the authority of the municipal registrar is unchanged. Among the roads in the village are also uncategorised roads given for public use. Complementing the provision of Article 27 of the Law, which lays down the obligation to comply with the rules, the new paragraph proposes to increase the sanction from the current EUR 250 to EUR 500. In addition, the new sentence proposes a statement of a lateral penalty of five penalty points for motor vehicle drivers who do not comply with the prescribed sign with which the authorised official stops him or does not comply with the prohibition of further driving. The higher risk of sanctions provides for general prevention of road users in the sense of encouraging the observance and observance of the signs and orders of authorised officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u83	I thank the Secretary of State. However, the proposal for a law was treated by the Infrastructure and Space Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! At its 8th meeting, on 26 June 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. At its 56th meeting, on 7 June 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. The amendment of Article 4 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group was tabled within the time limit. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Magi Space shall be the Secretary of State. Bojan Babič pointed out that the bill contains three main solutions: a re-introduction of a motor vehicle seizure measure is proposed due to serious traffic offences that have already proved effective in the past. The draft law also introduces a measure of restraint for the driver and constitutes a step from preventive to repressive behaviour and constitutes a second stage of action in view of the severity of the consequences that may be caused by individual road users. With a view to ensuring safety and smooth traffic on toll roads, the powers of toll inspectors shall also be extended, which shall be empowered to exercise control over traffic restrictions, weather conditions and winter and in respect of the powers to review a particular document and to exclude vehicles which do not comply with those provisions. In its written opinion, the representative of the Law and Law Service Špela Macček Gustin pointed out that the Law and Law Service had made only a nomological comment to Article 3 of the Law, which introduced a new Article 15a, which should regulate the powers of toll control over the implementation of certain provisions of the Act. The representative of the State Council, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission supports the bill. He pointed out that the State Council notes that the reasons for amending the law that introduces a more stringent treatment of serious traffic offences are in the media pressure with the tragic consequences of some of the worse traffic accidents in the last period. The representatives of the Leasing Committee of the Association of Banks of Slovenia drew attention to the inconsistencies of the proposed solution with regard to the Institute of Motor Vehicle Seizure. In the debate, an amendment was submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to Article 4, which would also include an example of persons who are registered as being the subject of a white goods trade in the vehicle, whether they are found in the vehicle or in the vehicle. The representative of the applicant explained that these provisions do not need to be included in this proposal for a law, since the traffic and production of illicit drugs and white goods are regulated in several other laws. With regard to the comments of the Association of Banks of Slovenia to Article 4, the representatives of the proposer stressed that the seizure of a motor vehicle, when not owned by the Causer, is only possible if it is a matter of life protection, general security and property security. This measure is therefore intended for serious infringements and the repeated acts of the same perpetrators. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. The Committee, however, adopted the following amendment to Article 3. Thus, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u85	I thank the chairman of the committee. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will be the first to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u86	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The basic objective of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act is to prevent the worst traffic accidents caused by returnees. This purpose is intended to be achieved by broadening the reasons for the vehicle's seizure, so that the vehicle can be seized at the expense of minor misdemeanours and also for those who do not fall within the category of returnees. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support all measures aimed at improving transport security, but in our view this novel will not contribute significantly to achieving this objective. It is already possible to seize a vehicle to an offender who has been, as a driver of a motor vehicle in the last two years, at least three times for a driving offence under the influence of alcohol, driving under the influence of illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive substances, or who is subject to a penalty or penalty for driving a motor vehicle, or who is temporarily deprived of his driving licence, is subject to a security measure for withdrawing the driving licence or for sanctioning the termination of the driving licence or for prohibiting the use of a driving licence and to a perpetrator who, despite the prohibition of driving, continues or repetitives the offence for which he is prohibited to continue driving. The amendment of the law stems from this year's unfavourable statistics on victims of traffic accidents, mainly in March and May, and from the conclusion drawn from this year's comparison that following the amendment of the law which entered into force on 1 September last year, the number of victims of traffic accidents had increased and that legislation had been amended. If we compare data on the number of victims of traffic accidents in the first six months after last year's novel, i.e. for the period September 2012 to including February 2013, and compare them with the same period of the year before that, then we can find that, after last year's novelty, there are fewer victims of traffic accidents than before. In the last period of 64, the year before 66. So there's no direct correlation. The trend in the decline of victims of traffic accidents remains as we have recorded fewer victims of traffic accidents each year in recent years. In 2008, this number was 214, in 2011 it was 141 and 130. Above all, in the last year, we have recorded a significant increase in the number of injured people. This in figures means that the number of accidents decreased by 5% between 2008 and 2012, the number of deaths by 39% and the number of injuries by 28%. The immediate impact of the novel is not to be expected this time, especially since the novelty is aimed at the vehicle and not at the driver. They remove a vehicle from traffic, not a driver who can acquire a new vehicle with a few hundred euros at any time and thus pose a potential risk to other road users. With regard to the seizure of a vehicle, we proposed an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group on the home working body, which would allow the seizure of a vehicle even if there were illicit drugs in the vehicle, or if there were persons in the vehicle who were recorded to be the subject of a white goods trade, but the coalition did not accept it, as well as an amendment concerning cases where a vehicle was seized by a driver who is not the owner of a car, such as in the case of financial and commercial rental of vehicles, namely leasing or rental of rental vehicles. Because of everything previously mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will not support the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Tink Lah. Mr Bevk will now present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act. We agree with the basic objective of amending legislation, namely to reduce the number of road accidents with fatalities and the number of persons injured in traffic accidents and to increase the safety of all road users, in particular those who are weak. We all remember the tragic case of the death of two girls on Slovenč's road in Ljubljana, who were hit by a drunk driver without a driver's license. Therefore, and due to other tragic cases on our roads, we believe that it is necessary to tighten up the transport legislation that the previous government has softened and, at the time of the adoption of which we have warned the Social Democrats that it has been prepared without prior analysis, what this means for road safety. At that time, the legislation was amended in a way that not only reduced the penalties for so-called minor offences, but also, without proper justification, significantly exacerbated the conditions under which police officers may seize the vehicle and keep drunk drivers. For example, from September 2012, when the new legislation entered into force, up to the end of April 2013, transport police seized 88% less vehicles for the worst offenders. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe it is important that we immediately exclude the worst offenders from transport and that the latter brings the novelties of the law that we are adopting today. This means a more rigorous treatment of returnees' drivers, a clearer definition of the powers of authorised officials and the unification of certain prescribed fines and side sanctions for road safety offences. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore agree with the amendments to the rules on road transport, including stricter rules on the seizure of motor vehicles and the detention of drunk drivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič will move forward with the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You can imagine a police officer saying, "Lord, with the weapons of the flag of M57, you threatened the passersby, you shot them twice, you missed them luckily. This has happened to you for the third time this month. You've broken the law with this, so you'll have a case brought against you. You'll receive an invitation, please return the gun with unspent bullets. Good luck." It is difficult for me to imagine how I could explain to citizens that a law allowing such a thing is that someone who threatens security with fellow citizens should be given back weapons, meaningful and for the benefit of all citizens, but we must be aware that the vehicle is also in the hands of some people. The vehicle will not solve all problems on Slovenian roads. But if he saves only one life, it's worth introducing. The conditions for seizure are laid down in such a way that citizens who have at least averaged compliance with traffic regulations need not be afraid of being hit by this penalty. That's how it's gonna happen. if the offender is caught in a serious traffic offence and has previously been legally punished in two years for serious speeding or driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. If this happens to someone three times in two years, it's not a coincidence, it's a systematic threat to participants in traffic. The procedure is possible in several other cases, but all of them are related to the fact that the driver did not comply with the driving ban. Of course, we are aware that some seizures will not be affected. No measure has always worked and on everything, but we think it makes sense to give it a chance. Just the fact that we have changed this area nine times in ten years shows that we are looking for some balance. Vehicle activity is not the only change in the law. The possibility of controlling traffic by toll controllers on toll roads with regard to traffic restrictions, weather conditions and winter conditions is also introduced. The conditions for the detention of the offender and some of the amendments presented by the Ministry are also more meaningful. From 1 January 2013 to 23 June 2013, 53 road users were dead, according to police data. 53 too many. The quality of life depends to a large extent also on safe mobility, so we will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u92	Hello again, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me first point out one important fact, namely that this area is called road traffic penalties and fines, in the last ten years on average changes at least 1 time a year, which we believe is quite unrealistic. With the exception of the management of the Ministry, the Agency or the Agency for Transport Safety, which may be replaced several times, they remain more or less employed in this area, so they know or should at least know their profession well. Therefore, the SLS would expect once those responsible in this area to sit together and thoroughly review, on the one hand, the objectives adopted by the Resolution on Road Safety, on the other hand, the actual effects achieved by legal solutions and, in particular, by criminal provisions in practice, and then carefully amend the Road Traffic Rules Act and, where appropriate, take other measures. We have obviously accepted the practice that laws, especially in the field of road traffic rules, are adopted symptomatically at every fatality that happens on the road, we are looking for who is responsible and what penalties should be increased and which fines should be increased so that this does not happen. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the behaviour of road users is increasingly fateful, and it is even more severe for all of us to think that the frequent victims are innocent participants who are at the wrong time in the wrong place. However, it is irresponsible, if it is not already unrealistic, that we always, as a rule, respond to difficult, public-reflecting traffic accidents by amending the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that we will probably not be able to reach the meaningful objective of the vision of nothing dead in the road safety resolution soon, but we must systematically follow this objective systematically. This, however, can only be achieved through serious and terrible action in all areas, not only by criminal policy. It is necessary to raise road users from a small point of view, to allocate more road rehabilitation funds in the budget, which we know are in very poor condition, and, of course, not least to deal with penalties and fines, which must be proportionate to the severity of the offences. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law because we understand and support the proposaler's good intention to tighten the penalties also for drivers who often exceed speed and with such behaviour cause a risk of fatal traffic accidents. We also welcome the proposed solutions that empower road overseers and allow them to remove vehicles that do not comply with the regulations and instructions in the event of adverse weather conditions. However, I would point out once again that these laws are changing too often, which, in our view, in particular, suggests that they are not being prepared systematically enough and on professional grounds. In particular, we call on the Government and, in particular, the competent ministry to take seriously the regulation of this area by all means and by all means possible measures, unless you assess that today's amendment to the Road Traffic Law and all other regulations will follow fully the objectives that we have endorsed in the National Assembly a few months ago by means of a strategic document with a resolution on road safety. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act contains three main solutions. It is proposed to reintroduce the seizure measure of a motor vehicle due to serious traffic offences which have already proved effective in the past. In this way, a cumulative fulfilment of two conditions will be sufficient for the seizure of a motor vehicle, if a traffic operator is caught in a worse offence and if one of the conditions laid down in paragraphs 1 to 5 of the first paragraph of the draft law is met – this point would not be mentioned today because something has already been said about it. As the representative of the Government pointed out in the examination of the home working body, in drawing up the provisions on the seizure of a motor vehicle, the applicant also sought solutions in terms of determining the exceptions to the seizure of a motor vehicle, in accordance with the proposed proposals of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia, but the return of a motor vehicle, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Offences, can be decided solely by the court. The draft law also introduces a measure of restraint of the driver and constitutes a step from preventive to repressive behaviour and constitutes a second stage of action in view of the severity of the consequences that may be caused by individual road users. Amendment 24 allows police officers to decide to detain a motor vehicle driver and thus prevent further serious consequences. In order to ensure safety and smooth traffic on toll roads, the powers of toll controllers are also extended by authorising them to exercise control over traffic restrictions and restrictions under different weather conditions and restrictions on winter and winter driving conditions. On the basis of these powers, toll inspectors may require access to certain documents and shall exclude vehicles which do not comply with those provisions. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u96	Madam Vice-President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act strengthens penalties for serious traffic offences to prevent new serious traffic accidents. In New Slovenia we will support the amendment of the law, although we believe that strict penalties policy can only be part of the solution. Let me remind you that at the end of this April in this Parliament we have adopted a resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2013 to 2022. In particular, the resolution highlighted the very problem of traffic accidents and set an ambitious goal: no fatalities and no serious injuries due to traffic accidents. Unfortunately, Slovenia is still far from this goal, but with systematic preventive approaches and a change of mentality of all participants in transport, this goal may be achieved sometime. In addition to alcohol, driving under the influence of other substances is becoming a major problem, which should be checked more frequently. From this point of view, I call on all participants in transport, including ourselves, to be aware of our own responsibilities, not only to ourselves, but also to others. We must also adopt the thought that we can do the most for the safety and security of others by taking into account traffic rules, rules, respect for other road users and tolerance for others, and in particular by taking account of speed limits. The police can also take a strong interest in traffic safety and take preventive action, but if we are not prepared to change our mode of driving and behaviour in traffic, all these security measures and good intentions will not help us much. One of the options that we highlighted in New Slovenia in our programme, which reduces the risk of accidents, is the use of public transport. In addition to economy and practicality, we can also contribute to reducing harmful emissions and thus protect the environment for future generations. Slovenia should also invest more in the development and use of public transport in order to improve security.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u98	President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act complements the individual legal provisions of the transport security policy in the country with a stricter treatment of returnee drivers, a clearer definition of the powers of authorised officials and a uniformisation of certain prescribed fines and foreign sanctions for road safety offences. The amendments follow the objectives of road safety transport transport policy set out in the Resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2013-2022. Speed is still the most important risk factor for accidents on Slovenian and European roads, especially those with the worst consequences. In order to improve road safety, it is therefore up to the provisions to be supplemented by compliance with the rules on increased sanctions. In order to ensure greater road safety, additional powers are also given to to toll inspectors, namely to exercise control over traffic restrictions. In addition, they may require a view of a particular instrument and exclude vehicles which do not comply with the legal provisions. Regarding the proposal for the impoundment of a motor vehicle, warnings were given that in cases where the owner of the seized motor vehicle is leasing or rent-a-car, the company may happen to be in the process but the owner is not informed. In preparing the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Seizure Act, the applicant sought to find solutions to the definition of exceptions to the seizure of a motor vehicle in accordance with the proposed proposals of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia, but on the return of a motor vehicle according to the provisions of the Offences Act, only the court may decide. Unfortunately, the vehicle can only be returned to the driver after a lengthy judicial procedure and during this time the vehicle loses an important part of its value. In all cases, however, the owner will be the one taking the risk. Nevertheless, we support the proposed solution that the criminal authority will not be able to decide on the return of the seized vehicle. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we support the proposal for amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act because it brings additional measures to increase safety on our roads. And a happy and safe ride without sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you so much for your good wishes. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading of the bill. The proposal will be decided on Monday, 15th, in accordance with the meeting’s timetable. 7. In the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on forests. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u100	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The first objective of the proposed amendment to the Law on Forests is to ensure the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market. The Regulation applies from 3 March 2013 and is therefore necessary to ensure its implementation and control. Second, it is also an important objective to enable the construction of road forest even if it is not possible to obtain 100 % consent from forest owners for construction. Such construction should be made possible in order to ensure the public interest of forest roads in particular due to rapid action in the event of fires, natural disasters and plant diseases. In addition, this will contribute to the better use of forests and also to the economic exploitation of forests. In order to ensure traceability of forest wood varieties, documents shall be introduced to monitor each transport of forest wood products. Let me stress that the documents are different in private forests and state forests, because we already have a traceability system and documents in state forests under the concession regulation. However, for private forests or all other forests, the amendment of the law provides that forest wood varieties loaded on the means of transport or on the transport itself shall always be accompanied by a transport document, a carrier, with information on the issue of an authorisation for sew by the Institute of Forests on the supplier, buyer, type and quantity and in particular on the date, time and purpose of transport. This applies to varieties where they are first placed on the market, intended for temporary storage prior to first placing on the market or where they are intended for their own consumption. The carriage does not need to be carried if the branches and pitchers, which are the residues of the sections and for all forest wood ranges of 10 cm in diameter are transported. The carrier gets the carrier from the owner and fills it out. However, after the transport has been completed, the completed carrier must deliver the forest variety to the first buyer. However, a copy of the carrier shall be owed to the first buyer, no later than 10 days after the transport has been carried out, to send to the forest owner which must keep a copy of the carriers for at least five years. The holder of the forest shall be issued by the operator on the basis of a permit issued for the cutting of trees. Let me say that the supervision of the implementation of the law in addition to forest inspectors will also be exercised by the competent customs authorities and the police, each in accordance with their respective competences. However, fines and the taking of timber are provided for the violation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much for the Government's complementary explanation. The proposal was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u102	Dear President, representatives of the government! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests as a working body at its 22nd meeting on 26 June this year. In the debate on the proposal for a law, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in an additional explanation of the written opinion, drew attention in particular to the provisions concerning the acquisition of proof of the right to build forest roads. In the opinion of this service, it is not clear what will be the position of the owner of the land to which the forest road will go, both in terms of construction, maintenance and compensation obligations, and also in terms of determining whether the construction of an individual forest road is truly in the public interest. In view of the above, the proposal for a law should be amended to provide for procedures in which it would be possible to verify that the construction of forest roads in specific situations is indeed in the public interest, as well as for the determination of compensation or compensation in cases where interventions in individual parcels are of such intensity that the ownership right of an individual is actually exercised. The Legislative and Legal Service also drew attention to the provision of Article 4 of the draft law, which provides, inter alia, that the first buyer of forest wood assortments must keep the carrier for at least 5 years from the date of issue. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, according to the definition of the concept, the first buyer may be overstated because it can actually be the final user. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food was presented by its representative and stressed that the Commission does support the bill and opposes fines for individuals. It also points out that the amendment of the law does not provide a solution when landowners clean or cut down a tree on the lawn or a plot for which they do not need a cut decision and then take this wood to their own yard and are because they do not have a carrier in an offence for which they can be fined. The Committee has taken that view into account by adopting the amendment to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 4 of the bill. However, the President of the Union of State Authorities pointed out that it would be necessary to include in the draft law decisions which would enable the Slovenian Institute of Forests to obtain definitively from the sale of goods and services on the market or to charge part of the material costs that would arise upon the issuance of decisions authorising the cutting of selected trees, thereby facilitating the material situation of employees, in particular rebreeders. In the context of the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members of the Committee discussed in particular the provision of Article 4 of the bill, which, as it is said, with a view to preventing illegal trade and related trade, introduces the carrier and the amendments tabled to this Article. In explanation of their amendment, the representative of the New Slovenia Group stressed that in view of the new burden on forest owners, in particular farmers, who would be subject to an additional bureaucratic procedure by means of the proposed legislation, the Group proposes that the carrier be introduced only for forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. While in the debate on that amendment, the majority of the members of the Committee agreed that the introduction of the carrier was a matter of additional bureaucratic procedures, which would have an unnecessary impact on small farmers rather than large companies which could easily be avoided. Therefore, the question is what will we achieve with this measure at all. The majority of the members of the Committee expressed their belief that carriers should also apply to wood from private forests, since in these forests it is the most cutting and selling black. This points out that it is not private forests owned by individual small farmers, but it is large forest complexes owned by private individuals, including churches that are not even engaged in agricultural activities. From these private forests, undetected and thus untaxed quantities of logs are much to be removed. The Committee did not adopt that amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4 and adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which also takes into account the comments of the Slovenian Chamber of Agriculture and Economy concerning the abolition of carriers for the transport of those forest wood varieties which are mainly intended for their own use. Following the discussion, it was particularly pointed out that the country owns approximately 240 thousand hectares of forests, which is about 20% of all forests with effective control over the management of state forests, and 460,000 private forest owners, of which only 60 thousand are farmers. Surveillance in private forests is carried out by the Slovenian Institute for Forests, which will be entrusted with additional tasks for the issue of carriers by amending the law, and the available budgetary resources are not even sufficient for the provision of the field part of foresters, given that it raises the question to whom it is in the interest that foresters do not have sufficient resources to carry out their tasks in the forests. The belief was also expressed that the Slovenian Agricultural and Economy Chamber, with its professional staff, should provide assistance to forest owners in more successful management so as to prevent the huge damage that is occurring in the forests. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to the coalition groups, but did not adopt amendments to the opposition parliamentary groups. In the light of the amendments adopted, the Committee has drawn up a supplementary proposal for a law incorporating amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u104	Your Honor! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Law on Forests. The Novel of the Forest Act, which we adopt, brings two novelties. The first novelty is the harmonisation of national legislation with the Regulation of the European Union and the second is the determination of the obligations of economic operators placing on the market wood and wood products. Its purpose is to prevent illegal logging and related trade. According to some data, already around 25% of the undetected cuts in Slovenia and the placing on the market of illegally cut wood or products made from cut wood are prohibited under a Regulation of the European Union. The Regulation states that economic operators must ensure traceability and ensure the necessary due diligence in order to prevent the placing on the market of timber and timber products from illegal logging. Therefore, the amendment introduces a so-called carrier. This is a document which the owner will give to the carrier and will be completed by the carrier in each loading on the means of transport or in the transport of timber. With this document, the carrier will prove the origin of the wood and then deliver it to the first buyer and the first customer will return it to the owner of the forest. This ensures control of the legality of wood entering the market. Another novelty, which is also important in terms of better exploitation of possible wood cutting, concerns the construction of forest roads, where the possibility of building forest roads is introduced, even when there is no agreement to build 100 %. Today, due to the multitude of owners on a particular route, it is virtually impossible to build a forest road, a three-quarters agreement is introduced by law, with a reduction of consensus to ensure the exercise of public interest, because forests must be accessible not only for the purpose of obtaining forest varieties, but also for the implementation of preventive measures due to the condition of pests, diseases or, worst case, fires. For all we have said, we will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a team from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment! In the Civil Gazette we announce our support for the amendment of the Law on Forests. The substance of the amendment is certainly the introduction of so-called carriers. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment thus envisioned that it would be best to implement a whole range of regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. The implementation of those regulations is intended to ensure systematic traceability of wood also for our timber industry, which is mainly export-oriented and represents the major development potentials of our economy. It does not make sense that due to the non-implementation of European regulations, the Republic of Slovenia is paying penalties to the European Commission, but if the introduction of a carrier also constitutes an additional competitive advantage to our wood industry, such a legal solution cannot in fact be disputed. The aim of traceability is also to prevent illegal trafficking in timber, with the help of the carrier, the Government is looking forward to effective monitoring and control of the transport of timber from forests, which should also help other forest owners, as well as authorities monitoring the legality of the transport of timber, which should now be disabled. The carrier is also supported by companies operating legally because they consider the transport of forest wood varieties without any document to be actually unfair competition. In this way, it is also possible to generate undetected income and non-payment of the relevant taxes. As a result, the inflows to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will increase by reducing illegal logging and trade in timber. For 2009, the Court of Auditors found that the Institute of Forests does not register 27.1% of the cuts. This indicates that the latter does not dominate our forests with sufficient care. According to local terms, we can conclude from the above that someone steals as much as 1.2 million cubic metres of wood in Slovenian forests each year. It follows from the annual reports of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests that they themselves have identified the following quantities of illegal logging in forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 48 cases and 541 cubic metres of wood, 2001 – 11 for a thousand 952 cubic metres of stolen timber in the state forests and 2012 – a thousand 317 cubic pounds of wood illegally cut in Slovenian forests. At the Institute for Forests, however, it was found that there is a 46% higher number of species in private forests than officially recorded, which means that more than every third tree in the private sector is illegally cut or stolen. It's obvious that private people are the ones who steal and don't even notice, and they actually lack those 1.2 million cubic meters of wood. The fact, colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian forests there is a need to ensure order! Perhaps with these amendments to the Law on Forests there is also an opportunity to do so. Order in the forest does not mean only the absence of the theft of wood, but it also means the following: order also for motor vehicles in the natural environment, relentless persecution of wild landfills and landfills, persecution of the grey economy from forests, not only butchers and black marketers, it is also necessary to ask who are the providers in private and church forests. The latter should be asked by those responsible – the Institute for Forests. The carriers are here, the Department of Forests, the customs administration, the police and inspection services, and we expect you to justify the introduction of this institute. Moreover, the Republic of Slovenia needs significantly more money from concessions, from state forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The situation in Slovenian forests and woodworking industry is everything before ideal. That's probably what we all agree on. According to data from the Institute for Forests, there would be a black-cut or undetected cut from a quarter to a third in total. Therefore, the establishment of a better system of surveillance of logging in Slovenian forests is necessary and necessary, and this is precisely what is intended to be the main purpose of proposing a novel of the Law on Forests; by introducing a so-called carrier to ensure traceability of forest forest varieties and thus to prevent the theft of our greatest natural wealth. This also operationalises the European Regulation on the Designation of Economic Operators who place wood and wood products on the market. Let me mention that the proposed law was in a very similar form as it is now before us, already in the mandate of the previous government, but because of the different circumstances in the National Assembly we have not seen it until this late spring. The law therefore introduces a carrier for all forest wood varieties loaded on a means of transport that transports them from the forest to processing establishments at home and abroad. The carrier will be issued by the Forest Owner's Office on the basis of a permit for felling of trees, which will be handed over before the first transport to the carrier, who will record the required data on the document. The document will thus be accompanied by imported timber, which will allow more effective control by forest inspectors, police and customs, who will also be competent to oversee the implementation of the proposed amendment. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed changes are welcome and have the right purpose, so we support any effort to improve control of the undetected logging in our forests and illegal trade, which at least partially saves the proposed law. However, we note that the mere adoption of the law is far from enough. The implementation of the law in terms of more frequent, quality and effective control by the competent authorities will be crucial, in the sense that they will not be used incassant measures against small farmers, who also own smaller forests and transport timber for their own use, but rather that control will be exercised primarily on large forest owners and sellers who are most responsible for the illegal export of Slovenian timber abroad. In doing so, we must not exclude concessionaires who manage forests owned by the country, as there is, in particular, undetected logging and trade in these forests. Let me also stop at the penal provisions of the proposed law. In the SLS Group, we were shocked at the initial level of the fines at stake for violators reaching up to €150,000. For example, for a smaller farmer who owns a forest that takes a few cubic metres of wood out of the forest and does not have a transporter, this would undoubtedly mean a loss of the farm, as otherwise he would not be able to pay the penalty. The disproportionateity between the infringements and the proposed level of punishment was also noted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and we have also proposed an amendment in our parliamentary group for the meeting of the parent committee, with which we wanted to reduce the fines owed by us by about five times. Unfortunately, our amendment has not been adopted, but the ruling coalition has also realised that, by adopting its amendment to Article 11 of the Law, the penalties originally proposed have been reduced and still disproportionately high in some parts. As it is said, only the adoption of the proposed novel of the Law on Forests will not be far enough to prevent illegal logging and trade in Slovenian forests. In our view, the key adoption of the rules on the carrier provided for in Article 4 of the Act and the control programme itself for the implementation of the law, which will have to be drawn up by the competent authorities. In particular, it will be up to the Regulation to determine whether the procedures will be sufficiently clear and sufficiently simple so that there will be no complete confusion and counter-effect. In doing so, we also stress that this minimum amendment of the law solves only one segment of forest management and trade with their products. However, we expect the Government to prepare a comprehensive solution and programme to the problems of the forestry and forestry sectors and the problems of concessions, which will very soon be up to date. Despite certain reservations to the proposed solutions, the proposed amendment of the Law on Forests will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The amendment of the Law on Forests and the proposed solutions seeks primarily to increase economic activity in forests and to reduce the scope of the grey economy. In this regard, particular attention has been paid to two substantive changes. For the implementation of the European Regulation of October 2010 laying down the obligations of operators placing on the market wood and wood products, a carrier shall be introduced for all forest wood varieties loaded on the means of transport or transport. This document ensures the traceability of wood from forest to buyer and introduces a system of necessary care. The carrier is also trying to prevent illegal logging in Slovenia and related trade, which is the main purpose of the regulation. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Forests of Slovenia and the Slovenian Forestry Institute have all come to the same conclusion, namely that there is a very large difference between recording and real cutting, somewhere between 26 and 30%, i.e. about a million cubic metres of wood difference. The placing on the market of illegally cut wood or products derived from such wood is prohibited in accordance with the European Regulation. Similarly, companies operating legally have warned that the transport of forest wood varieties without any document constitutes unfair competition and consequently there is no record of income and no payment of the relevant taxes, allowing a grey economy to operate both in the forest and in transport with forest wood varieties. As a result, the company would also contribute to the lower export of the increasing volume from year to year, resulting in better supply of the domestic wood processing industry with the appropriate shade. For the construction of forest roads, the possibility of construction without the consent of all forest owners is introduced. Despite the public interest and co-financing of the European Union, the construction of forest roads is very difficult due to administrative procedures. In practice, a few kilometres of forest road runs through ownership of 30, 40 or more private forest owners. As the authorisation for the construction of a forest road requires the consent of all forest owners who own the forest on the route of a future forest road, it turns out in practice that it may take years or not be possible to obtain such agreements. The consequences of the inability to build forest transport are reflected in the high cost of management and, as a result, inefficiencies, inability to act effectively in the event of fires, reptiles, floods, diseases, pest control and the like. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Forest Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u112	Your Honor! The proposal for amendments and complementing the Law on Forests came to the attention of the National Assembly at the right time. A month ago, at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, at the request of New Slovenia, we discussed better management of state forests. The Ministry of Agriculture responded relatively quickly with the novel, which we are considering here, and we consider the solutions proposed in Novi Slovenija to be inappropriate and flawed. The introduction of a transport document, so-called a carrier to accompany the transport of forest forest varieties, entails a new unnecessary burden on forest owners. In particular, farmers would be subject to an additional bureaucratic procedure, which would make normal work more difficult for them. At the same time, it is threatened with higher cadastral income as well as an unfair property tax. Apparently he is an honest Slovenian farmer again, as he was sixty long years old, the state enemy number one. I hope not. Currently, the government consistently implements regulations that show a lack of confidence in the Slovenian countryside and impose a heavy burden on Slovenian agriculture. As a result of the amendment proposed by the Members of New Slovenia, the carrier is to be introduced in the first phase only for forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This also follows the audit report Management of the forests of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which concluded for 2009 that there is a risk that not all forest forest varieties obtained from forests managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia are recorded. If our amendment is adopted, the Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the Law on Forests, otherwise we will vote against it. We will also support the amendments proposing that the levels of the penalties at stake will be proportionate to the severity of the offence.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u114	President, colleagues, colleagues! The Law on Forests brings positive changes, not all of which we have warned in Positive Slovenia from the forest and wood processing situation. It is true that in Slovenia, according to official estimates, about a million cubic metres of wood that goes mainly abroad is illegally cut each year, mainly from private forests. There are more ways to prevent this illegal practice, which is particularly harmful to the revenue of the State budget. In the Ministry's view, the most appropriate and effective way at present is to increase the control of forest forest operators and penalise the policy in the event of infringements. Thus, the Law on Forests introduces a new instrument to prevent illegal logging in Slovenia and related trade. With the introduction of the so-called carrier for all forest wood varieties, a system of consistent traceability of wood from forest to buyer is provided. In our view, this represents a tool for a determined fight against the grey economy in the field of forestry and, more importantly, puts companies involved in the transport and trade of timber back in an equal position or destroys unfair competition on the market. However, it will not be necessary for a wood undertaking intended for its own use, of course in the quantity allowed. Another important novelty is the definition that the construction of forest roads is in the public interest. For many years in Slovenia, we have encountered delays in the construction of forest roads, despite the fact that they are co-financed by public funds of 50 % or even 60%. So far, all forest owners have agreed to build, most of which has lasted several years and in most cases has failed due to various succession procedures. As a result of this amendment, the law provides for the construction of forest roads with the consent of the owners of three quarters of the land area on the route of the envisaged forest road. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we also support the raising of fines for violators, which will have an appropriate disstimulating effect that will contribute to the implementation of the main objectives of the law. Of course, because of all this, we will also support the proposal of the law, since it will in particular prevent illegal logging and related trade. In our view, however, there are still several points open to forest management. Let me put it this way. The rules, due diligence, frequency and type of inspections of supervisory organisations should be further regulated. The possibility of cooperation or exchange of personnel, experts between the Fund and the Institute for Forests as a monitoring aid is not regulated. The Fund's decision or the requirement to raise concessions in state forests is not realized and thus the loss of funds at an annual level of at least EUR 15 million is not realized. In particular, the sharing of interests in the forest-saw-forest-processing industry is not regulated with a view to increasing the number of jobs, as this legislation will not prevent the export of refrigeration. Also, the Les Action Plan is beautiful in our view does not guarantee the objective of jobs and added value. That wood is as rich as oil, it does not come out of it, that wood is beautiful for the heat. In our view, it has been prepared by more foresters than by forestry workers, so there is still much work to be done in this area for those responsible at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u116	The proposed law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Forests concerns less difficult amendments and additions to the law and less difficult harmonisation of the law with the legal order of the European Union. The implementation of the amendments to the Act will enable the implementation of Regulation No 995/2010 of the European Union of 20 October 2010 applicable on 3 March 2013 laying down the obligations of economic operators placing on the market timber and timber products, and Commission Implementing Regulation No 607/2012 of the European Union laying down detailed rules concerning the system of necessary due diligence and the frequency and type of checks on supervisory organisations as set out in that Regulation. The proposal introduces three substantive changes, namely in the area of the construction of forest roads, the possibility of concluding agreements between the Agricultural Land Fund and the Institute for Forests on the control of the correct implementation of State-owned forest concessions and measures to prevent the placing on the market of illegally cut timber. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposal of measures that will facilitate the construction of forest roads and joins with the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the proposed solution leaves many open questions as to whether the construction of forest roads is truly in the public interest in specific cases. It is worrying that in Slovenia about a million cubic metres of illegal logging per year and, as a result, the loss of national income is also a result of this, and therefore the Group supports the proposaler's efforts to make this impossible and to ensure the traceability of wood. The introductions of carriers to be issued by the Institute of Forests in addition to the permit for slaughter are not opposed. We believe, however, that this will be a huge administrative supply, which will be a greater cost for the administration than will be a real impact. It makes no sense for us to introduce small-scale vehicles with tractors or even car trailers, since in most cases wood is cut for use by hair. In particular, it is pointless for these cases to require the storage of carriers for five years, which is also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. Regulation 895/2010 also does not require records and controls of wood used for domestic use. We find it unacceptable, however, that the penalties for offences and fines are disproportionate to the offence and damage that may also occur in relation to fines from other transport laws, such as the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, and therefore the parliamentary group proposes an amendment that substantially reduces penalties, particularly for individuals. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the Government would be able to ensure the adoption of a government regulation for the implementation of both EU regulations and that this law should not be adopted following a reduced procedure and that it would be more focused on amending the system law that is to be drafted. It would try to solve all the problems that have accumulated and thus provide a legal basis for better forest management.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. We will first discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u118	I have already said in my presentation that it seems pointless to burden farmers with some additional administrative procedures. We believe that irregularities are taking place, especially in connection with transport from state forests, and it is right here that the state has control, we do not protest against these carriers. However, we believe that the small farmer would be further burdened by unnecessary administrative procedures, so we are proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you all! I cannot support this amendment for a simple reason because 75% of the forests in Slovenia are privately owned, 22% are state owned and 3% are owned by the municipality. That is to say, if we accept such a solution as you proposed in the New Slovenia Group, we do nothing. This is about as much as if we were to say that those farms that have less than three hectares do not need to take into account good agricultural practices. And for example, they can place meat on the market without control and they are not subject to the system as it applies to numbering and other matters. Look, Slovenian forests, I think they're the green heart of Europe. Only Finland and Sweden have more forests and we need to treat them with care and economy. Some countries, India and China in particular, already face forest shortages or shortages of wood-processing products, and the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology estimates that wood will begin to be scarce on the world market in 2030. It is right that we respond to these warnings of experts in a timely manner. It is actually about the implementation of European regulations. The Ministry of Agriculture just imagined that we could implement this best in the way of transport. I would like to recall something else; we adopted four conclusions on the Committee on Agriculture last December. These decisions were adopted unanimously by a third of this Parliament, because this was a joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. We have been examining the Court of Auditors' report on forest management and, of course, the Court of Auditors has also found that we do not have a strategy in this area or that we are neglecting this area. I think that this traceability is necessary throughout Slovenia for all forests and therefore I cannot support this amendment. Some of your proposal is made clear that this amendment somehow proposes that because we know that the churches are also private property, I think that the Catholic Church is also safe on this side, that it wants order to be established in this area and that in fact they do not support illicit logging, and therefore I think it is right for carriers to introduce themselves for all forests. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I can't accept this amendment either, because – look, when we start to solve something systemic in the marriage, it's once again that we want to exempt someone. Although we say that we Slovenians are honest – but I believe that farmers are honest and that many people are honest – we do see that a million, even more, cubic metres of wood can be unjustifiable or black-cut. We agree with this that there are many people in Slovenia who gain funds unfairly. This is a fraud against the state budget. At the same time, when it is black - cut, it leaves behind a lot of wood or waste that can cause the bulwark to grow. This has already been pointed out, and this is also pointed out by those who have a forest inspection. It also appears that this wood or forest is cut in areas where it can cause reptiles. And it's also kind of a phenomenon in our forests and in our territory. Therefore, it is right that the law before us interferes with this part and that it also wants to regulate this area. I will therefore, of course, oppose this amendment, which does not introduce further regulation of this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u124	Nice hello to you all! Nor can I support this amendment, because otherwise this law is irrelevant so that the carrier applies only to state forests. In the state forests, wood is actually cut illegally, it's said to be stolen. However, in private forests they shall place on the market goods which are not recorded, which do not have documents which do not have this so-called carrier and on the basis of this there shall be no duty payments because there is no input document to the first buyer. That is why this matter is urgently needed in private forests. That's another thing. As already said by colleague Katarina, the country owns 20% of the forests, the rest are private owners, and farmers represent the smallest share in this structure. And these private owners are private forests, these are forest complexes, including a church that is not even engaged in agricultural activities. The vehicle as a document must be for all, for state forests and, above all, for private forests, for us to get traceability. As I mentioned earlier, there will be no less export of refrigeration abroad because of the carrier, and other measures will be needed in the forest chain, saws, wood processing industry and so on. I can't support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The text was also wanted by the Secretary of State, Mrs Tanja Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Allow me to reiterate that the current State-owned Forest Concessions Regulation provides for a traceability system in such a way that each log from the state forest must be marked with a fixed plate on which the code is located. Before this wood is removed from the forest, the electronic system must be communicated to the information system of the fund, which is driven from the state forest. So the traceability system for state forests is already in place. As far as private forests are concerned, however, I would like to point out that our assessment of the system does not mean an excessive administrative burden. Indeed, the European Regulation imposes on everyone, regardless of size, on each owner, all 460,000 owners, in order to ensure a system of due diligence. Which means that for five years they have to keep all the information on this, for every wood they sold it, about a document that shows that the wood is legally cut, it's about a decision, and then where it was driven and sold to. Thus, with this system of carriers, we wanted to make it easier for owners to work in a way that, at the same time as the decision –the decision is valid for rowing for five years – each owner will get the required number of carriers on which the decision number and the name of the owner have already been preprinted. And when it comes at any time in these five years to the stage that this wood is taken from the forest to the buyer, the carrier completes the date, hour and what it drives, because if the control stops it, it can at any time in a very simple way prove that it is transporting legally cut wood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u128	Since I am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture, but I am replacing our MEP, I do not know how the debate on the Committee went. But I'd say something about economics. I am sure that farmers, masters, are much more careful with the forest than those who work in state forests or care for state forests. Last but not least, the Court of Auditors' report also discusses this, which identifies irregularities in the sale of timber in state forests. And the one about the church was a little under the belt, Mrs. Katarina. Above all, I was talking about farmers that we often met in the field. And it was farmers who expressed this concern that they would now have a new job with these documents. With 60% of Slovenia growing in the forest, I am sure that Slovenian wood will not run out so soon. Of course, we must treat it with care and therefore the strategy of how we will deal with wood in the future is extremely necessary and important. When I visited some Slovenian sawmills and farmers, I was particularly reminded that we do not cut enough in Slovenia. I saw big logs with big holes in the middle because the trees were too late to cut. The problem is widespread, in addition to taking away wood, in addition to being under-processed in Slovenia, and thus our wood industry is becoming increasingly shrinking. Well, there are other problems. I agree, however, that there is a need for a greater review of what is being done in state forests. Just because we wanted to meet farmers who are afraid of additional administrative measures, we proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Does a fellow Member from the Positive Slovenia Group want to discuss this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u130	Yes, a fellow Member from the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia wishes. There's one thing I'd only respond to. I don't have a problem with this amendment. Personally, I don't care if it's private or state forests, it's wrong in both cases, and the pass is the only way to track and reduce this damage. There's something else I wanted to say. We equalize the forest with wood; all the time the forest, wood and this value and that. What colleague Novakova now said was that they found one of the logs that was inside the hotel This tree is the home of some species, by which we too belong to the top of Europe, I am talking about biodiversity. [[...]] So if we're looking at the forest just from this point of view, how many cubits, a million cubits, I don't have a problem with this, it just has to be regulated in a certain way, but this wood you're talking about, if you look at it a little bit better, has branches and leaves up and binds up some carbon dioxide, makes a little bit of oxygen. It is said that there is some multiple damage to be done with this so-called black section, which is why the sanctions that are envisaged, I personally support, that is what the colleague said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Dragan Bosic. Someone else to the first amendment or Article 4. If not, I conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to the next article and amendment, namely Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Does anyone want to discuss this article? Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you. Nice greeting, Madam Vice-President, respected by the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues who are still insisting! Article 11 deals with criminal provisions, particularly in the field of this carrier, which we introduce into our national legislation in accordance with the European Regulation. To begin with, when we talk about the carrier and these fines, which are the main red thread of this law, we are more papal than the pope or more European than Europe, where it seems, on the other hand, that, above all, with the height of the depths of the globe and also how we capture the carrier, that we are going to go to some witch hunt where small farmers are going to be hit very hard, or that they will have to look at whether they have some paper with them, not their safety. I really think that this law is completely inconceivable, incomplete, even partially impractical in practice. I think you'll see this sooner or later. Why? I think that when you have a marriage - I hope that all the officials at the Ministry will read it thoroughly, and you will see that the whole law on forests needs to be amended as soon as possible, not only what we are talking about today and make it more lifelike. As I said before, with this law, even though we are trying to make it with this amendment a little more life and a little bit more for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer, we are going in the wrong direction. I agree with the predecessor when she said that this law is in conflict with the anti-barricacy of Slovenia. With this carrier, farmers will have much more work to do than some smart solutions. I agree that we must defend traceability, some order in the woods, whether they are state or private, and that a grey economy must be eradicated. But, uh, well-respected marriage promoters, I think you're going with this marriage, which I've already said, one witch hunt. From where I come from, I know such small foresters, large foresters, concessionaries, small farmers, large farmers, and I must say that Slovenian practice is such that those who are great concessionaires, this law will be easily circumvented, without worry. I don't think they're going to have any problem going through the forest policy by going around these laws so they don't get hurt or even fly. Smaller farmers, as I said before, given that they have to have a carriage for five years, you know what five years is at some age of a farmer! [[...]] Imagine a farmer who has two, three hectares of forest and remembers going once a year to make a winter break or wood into his own forest. And then, if we didn't have this truck on this tractor or the tractor trailer or the last time we even said in a forest trailer, he'd get a punishment like that, he'd probably get hit by a stroke sooner or later. I agree that on the committee as much as we tried, at least on the proposal of the SDS and colleagues from Nova Slovenije, to ease the fines brought by law, because what was the first draft of the law you brought to the National Assembly was the murder of Slovenian forestry. I don't think anyone in their right mind would try to go into the woods to cut down some tree and then bring it home. I think that any farmer would rather cut down the forest than deal with whether he would have a carrier or would ever make a mistake or write anything wrong on this carriage and pay a huge fine immediately. I mean, I think five years is completely pointless. Let us be practical, let us give five years of traceability as a politician or officials in individual ministries, including ministries that are preparing such and similar rather pointless proposals, and you will see when people will ask us about our health and say that four, five years ago we have said this and that when we are in purely other matters. But, as I say, a simple Slovenian farmer must keep the carrier for five years. I'm not going to go down that this is another law that is the paradigm of this government. New taxes, higher taxes, higher taxes, higher taxes, in this case even higher fines, are abnormally high. This amendment is another step towards making the law – because I believe that you will confirm it – make it a little more lively, a little more humane. I have already told the committee that this law is completely incompatible with the rest of the legislation on criminal provisions, if you know that thousands of euros are fines for the transport of dangerous substances, and we have even played with the number 100,000 for the imposition of penalties. Even so, if there is a minor penalty, an inspector on the spot may, after some free judgement, as I said last time, make a beautiful decision for a higher sentence than that basic penalty. So that this law is, I have to agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in a wide range of areas, it's very plentiful. The Law-Legal Service itself has said that there is a possibility of constitutional review, particularly as regards roads and compensation to individual forest owners. I really hope that, when the government is preparing the new law it promises, it will play with the criminal provisions and on the basis of this practice, it will see that these criminal provisions in the sky are intoxicating to get out of other laws. You have also been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service, which said – not only about you, I am talking about all ministries, about all governments – that in criminal provisions they feel like we are sometimes jumping from one extreme to another, in this case we are at the highest extreme that Slovenian rurals or Slovenian farmers can still represent. With all due respect, fellow members of the Ministry, I believe that you are following this traceability, hoping for some high goals that this carrier will also bring from a financial source, but I really hope, given that you are representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, that you will take a little more care of the individual's farmer than I said, because those larger ones will soon find a way to pass this law and these fines. I must say that I was also appalled by the committee when individual Members, or some member of the coalition concerned, spoke about the need for carriers to be introduced and to impose such high fines. Why? Because he got information that individual logs also cost 100,000 euros. If a single log were worth 100,000 euros, I would expect the fines to be what they were originally in marriage. I have to say that the day I drove home after the board meeting, I got a few calls, or maybe I'm going home to the woods — I don't have a forest myself — so I don't have a problem — or whether I'm going to look for some kind of log worth 100,000 euros to get it on the market as soon as possible before this truck gets here, and I can make some money. In short, the amendment at least partially saves a bad, incomplete and incompatible law in practice. I must say that this law reminds me of the conversation that we have had several times in the National Assembly, especially in these three months, this is a question of cadastral income, when we resolved the issue of cadastral income for five minutes to twelve. Two years ago, you accepted something at the Ministry, and now we have decided to destroy the Slovenian farmer with a cadastral income. I hope that the representatives of the coalition will also support this amendment to at least partially resolve this law, although I must say that the procedure is such that we cannot put amendments everywhere. However, those debates about the size of the trunk, what we can bring home at all, where it ends or starts 10 centimeters, I hope that inspectors and farmers will be very inventive here. Also, the questions or debates we had last time on the tractor trailer — members of the Committee on Agriculture — I think that at the end of August at the meeting in Gornja Radgono, where you will see how big trailers can be or how small and similar. In this area, too, the law is incomplete. The effect on traffic and consensus, when we even raised from two-thirds to three-quarters, seems impractical to me, inanimate. So as a guide to the preparers, when you are fully preparing a new marriage, really think about what is most practical, the most vital, because it seems foolish to put something into marriage, which then does not drink water. Maybe for closure. Several debaters discussed in the previous article and I felt like Slovenian farmers were thieves. I have to say, I don't have the status of a farmer, but I do believe that some farmer is a thief, and every driver isn't completely clean, we all break road traffic regulations sometimes, but that doesn't mean we're all savages, and not all farmers are thieves. That is why I really hope that you, my colleagues in the coalition, will help us and all those who propose this amendment to support it and to at least make this law a living. But since I believe that you will follow your bosses, you will make this marriage totally impossible, lifeless, and I cannot personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 11? Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your word. At first, I was disturbed by Mr Branisl's implementation, which said that about a million 200 thousand cubic metres of wood had been stolen. I have to say that if someone cut wood in their own forest and didn't get a decision before, they didn't steal wood from the country, but they committed a crime because they didn't have a permit to cut wood. That's a big difference. I would like to say, when we are already in these sentences, for those who do not know the system, that the Forestry Institute has developed forest management plans for individual districts for a period of 10 years and is very important in these forest management plans also the amount of wood in cubic meters that can be cut down during this period, which the foresters call et cetera, and that there is not too much wood cut in our forests, especially in private forests, but not enough. On average, 60% of these levels are achieved, and the goal is to fully implement this goal, as this achieves the objectives set by the forest management plan. It would be optimal to cut down everything that is set out in the forest management plan, and this is the best forest management. But that is far from being achieved. It is true that the traceability of wood as foreseen by the European Regulation has already been achieved in the state forests. There are probably no major violations there, and the problem is mainly in those private-owned forests, but they do not have carriers, have no documentation, and the intervention is primarily for sale. This is the majority of those owners who have larger amounts of forest, are not farmers and also the church is among them, and the traceability of this wood is not. The European Union, as I understand this Regulation itself, requires traceability to know where it has been cut and where it is going, mainly because of various frauds. However, we have taken this law so far as to require carriers to make small cuts for their own consumption that are not required by the European Regulation, nor to control wood or cutting records. Of course, we already have the law that you have to get a cut decision at the Institute for Forests, where you give a partial number and the Institute for Forests a look at the forest management plan, what the floor area is like and to what extent it can confirm you. You don't even have to go to the Forest Department. You can only determine how many cubic meters on this plot you can cut. Thus, the Institute for Forests issues decisions as far as it can be cut and based on these decisions it is difficult to determine how much was black-cut since the records simply do not exist, so far there have been no carriers. It's just an assumption of how much wood is black-cut. We have gone so far that we now also set for small farmers, for our own consumption, for the firewood or for the protection of building wood that each individual needs to get a transporter, not only for forests, but also where it grows a tree that is not in the forest. It shall not be taken without the carriage if it is more than 10 cm thick. If you drive by a tractor trailer, with a motorbike, with a car trailer — if it is more than 10 centimeters, you need to have a vehicle. We know that we have older farmers in particular – the average age of a Slovenian farmer is 60 years – that such things are done by older people, 70, 80 years old, and that if he forgets the transporter, he will read and measure by a meter that he is more than 10 centimeters and cannot drive it, he will go looking tomorrow when he gets the transporter. He's gonna have to go get the truck, even though he doesn't need a decision because the tree grew up on the lawn on some border. In a few years, certain types of trees exceed two inches [10 cm]. Like, acacia or something. We've come so far, and we've got punishments so high that that poor farmer will be able to tell the customs officer, the police officer, or the inspector when they meet. He has every right to take his pension under this law. This proves we're more papal than the Pope. Europe requires one and we are going to the extreme. For the last time, the Minister of Agriculture told us why we're scaring people because of the cadastral incomes due to the real estate tax. We don't scare, we scare people with this law, it's been politics since 1945. We fear that a man will be afraid to burn a tree on the border that does him harm and when he takes him home to his pension. I don't understand that. Why can we not determine why we then go to such extremes? That is why, in our Group of Members, we have proposed that the penalties be substantially reduced. If someone on a car trailer takes wood worth not even 100 euros, they will pay a fine of a couple hundred euros. What do you need this for? The Forest Department doesn't have the money to get their experts on the ground. Here I received one writing, where one of the longtime workers in the forest economy vividly expressed himself. I'm going to read: "It's not a long time ago when experts at the Institute for Forests will be driving bicycles on the ground, and on the way, they'll meet their colleagues who work in executive organisations that carry expensive SUVs on the ground." This is happening now. Farmers do not have the money to go to the field and concessions from state forests are so low that they are practically rich. If not, they are incapable of such a concession and at such current cost of wood. And they can laugh – those 25 foresters who are employed at the Agricultural Land Fund to control cut wood in state forests, compared to those who work at the Forest Institute, all highly qualified, with a high education rate of EUR 800, without reimbursement of the costs of transport on the ground. I don't know, and the government in this budget rebalancing, although we discussed a lot on the committee, didn't provide any additional resources – I think it needs 2.5 million of the Institute of Forests to work normally. On the other hand, we adopt laws to intimidate small farmers, small owners. Moreover, Slovenia has grown from 35% to 60% since 1945. On the other hand, we guarantee how much we have lost agricultural land, that we have 800 square metres per capita, half less than the average of European communities. What we've grown! But we've gone to accept compensation for changing agricultural land into forest, to charge no more compensation for building, no more investment, no more building, but we're still losing agricultural land because it's growing, but we're not doing anything. And with this law, we will not speed it up; we force additional people to grow even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 11? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. In the debate, I will limit myself more to the penalty, to the penalty. Penalties must, as a rule, be such that they have a educational purpose and cannot be such as to be destructive, except in some exceptional cases. In this case, when you have adopted a complementary bill, the penalties are devastating. For the upper limit of punishment is at least ten times the value of the goods carried on the largest truck. Ten times! 50,000 euros is a tenfold of what drives the largest forest truck at the value of the goods. If you know another case in this country where it happened and prescribed — do you know another case? I know you don't. If such penalties were to be applied to offences in banking, if such penalties were to be applied to offences in any other area, I would understand, but there is no other place where these penalties, so high, so highly prescribed. There is no offence in this country where at least a tenfold of what is committed there is prescribed as an offence. The other thing that's causing fear is the technology of the work that we're witnessing to. We recently witnessed when there were two of them, three state officials were easy to obtain a building permit for the legalization of black construction. The former minister who resigned received in a few days a state certificate that what he had was not black construction. We are now reading about two other state officials who have legalised the matter. Alongside the same area, an old lady with a 40-year-old facility had a breakdown. I would like to point out that when we prescribe some things and then implement them, we are extremely dual. If the penalty of EUR 50,000 is proportionate to the offence, then I would expect someone to argue that it is true. It's not. It is impossible to argue that 50,000 euros is proportionate to the offence committed. Of course, it can go from our forests to a lot of black-sold goods, but not all cut black. But it can be removed from the forest in this way. You speak a million cubits. One million cubics is estimated to be worth about 50 million euros if the average price of this million cubicles is 50 euros. Madam will know that the average price of a forest range of EUR 50 million is not lower. Calculate how many people are caught and given the greatest fine to pay for it. You just need to get a thousand people, you're gonna give thousands of farmers the highest penalty, and you're gonna cover practically everything that's been stolen in this country, so-called stolen. You don't think that's true. I think that this is the way to set up a solution to this problem is abnormal, impossible. You know that a large farm is not worth 50,000 euros in rural areas. The farm! Not those few cubicles on the truck. The farm isn't worth 50 grand. You can't sell it. And you're alluding to a punishment like that. How much did the Ljubljana mayor pay for the tenfold of the offence he committed or any other mayor? I was the mayor myself. Did you prescribe a penalty like that, ten times? Nowhere. One more thing, even for another case. Now we have cases where you're going to be punishing solsticemen who sell goods that aren't properly marked at the markets, but they're agricultural products. I hear you're going to impose enormous punishments there, too. So, against the people who represent a group, more marginal than not, in this society. You will prescribe enormous punishments for them. There'll probably be 50,000 euros in fines for someone you get if he sells a bunch of goods that won't be traceable. Just like here. It's abnormal, it's lifeless, it's uncivilized to destroy someone by such punishment in a way that they lose their property. With that kind of punishment, someone loses property because they won't be able to pay the fine. Therefore, I suggest you accept our amendment to establish control over this, because the control resources are sufficient in this country and also the well-paid ones. Those who should have done so are enough and would have been able to implement these provisions of the law by now without finding out how to penalise someone, but only the smallest who cannot defend himself will pay. Get these things in place. But I suggest we start with sentences that are at least about normal. Also what we have proposed, the maximum penalty of EUR 5,000 is more than the value of the biggest truck you will stop. This is also more, but 50,000 euros is more or less for each farm on average more than it is worth. After those hills, about four hectares of farms with facilities are not worth selling for 50,000 euros because there are no buyers and no workers. And with that, you will only further destroy the countryside. In my view, the punishment must be appropriate to the offence, proportionate to the offence, not destructive. And what has been adopted in this complementary proposal is devastating. Despite its decline, it is still devastating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Well, since honest people don't have to be afraid that punishments can affect their lives, I agree and support most of what colleague Lach has said. You can see that he is familiar with matter and, of course, it is necessary to solve the matter and the problem as he described it. I am sure that this has also been followed by the Ministry, so I will be happy to hear what the Ministry will say or the Ministry representative, why they have proposed such penalties. One of the leaders is probably that there's a huge rise in black carnage in our country. Surely it is necessary for those people who want to gain such an improper means to gain wealth — for I have observed both on the ground and among the people who say that many people are unjustifiablely rich. That's why these non-defendants need to get on their toes. Of course, it is necessary to look at what would happen to such a penal policy to farmers who may have less timber, less wealth and who are in years when they do not follow this legislation and cannot then pay those penalties. But I expect people to start thinking about what's right and what's wrong and not to use unjustifiable cuts. I will therefore be happy to listen to the proposaler as to what led them to say and propose such penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u139	Mr. Tanko, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. See, in this proposal, someone will pay 50,000 euros in fines if they drive without a transport permit, so to speak, without a carrier or this one will be incomplete. How much is the penalty paid by a driver who drives without a driver's license at home, forgets his home, or doesn't have one? Even if someone is driving without a driver’s license, does he pay 50,000 euros in fines? That's the question, I'm talking about proportionality. It's crazy if someone forgot a home transport document, one farmer, a 70-year-old man who went to chop something up and got some sort of forest range on a nonstop surface that's more than 10 centimeters thick, and he's gonna pay for that kind of punishment. Does that seem normal to you? However, those who are driving without a driving licence or without a driving licence can, as a result, talk about the victims, and will never pay 50,000 euros in fines, but will endanger everything in traffic. This poses no such threat. When we talk about proportionate measures, about proportionate penalties, let us also keep this in mind. Like that case that caused three fatalities, will he pay 50,000 euros in fines because he was driving without a driver's license because he was driving a technically inappropriate vehicle? He won't. Otherwise, he'll go into criminal proceedings, as he might have done in this case, but he'll never pay for it. And that's what we're talking about. Let us have a proportionate measure before us for a proportionate offence and not for some enormous punishment, a frightening punishment, and in a particular case, only a document could be forgotten. Because if they get it on a transport without a document, the penalty is automatic. There are no conditional circumstances here. And he can have it at home, only he doesn't have it with him. And that's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. No, you can't replicate a replica. Then you'll be able to discuss it. First, Mrs Novakova, and then the Secretary of State also took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u142	I'm also curious about who you've designed such enormously high punishments for her. Like Slovenian farmers are really barons who serve at every turn. Since I also live on a farm, I know how to work from morning to evening for self-sustainment and for a little profit. And Slovenian agriculture has many problems. We know that farm owners are usually older people who will by no means be able to pay for this and will indeed be able to set up their farm to have a problem for young farmers who will not want to take over the farm because they will have to take on a huge amount of costs in addition to work. I recently spoke to an older farmer who wanted to prescribe a farm for his son, and he says he doesn't like it because he's only gonna pay high taxes, except he's gonna have to do a good job, but he's not afraid of it. And what we watch from day to day, we follow the media about buying food at the market in Trieste. Of course, there are also those who cheat and must be punished in an appropriate way to be brought up, as it is called. But it seems to me that all of this is now done for a purpose — in order to show that all farmers are frauds, which need to be taxed well because they cheat, are serving dishonestly. We know that it is not that there are frauds in every profession, that they say that all politicians are cheaters, and we know that we are not, but we have said that all judges are bad, and we know that they are not, but they are often generalized, and all priests are bad, and we know that they are not, and so on they could be listed. Self-care in Slovenia is already so bad, it is getting worse year after year, and if we really don't have some smart measure here, and people are encouraged to continue farming, but not to punish them, then Slovenian agriculture is poorly registered and our cultural landscape will be very poorly regulated, so that we will no longer be proud of our Slovenia. Therefore, I ask and encourage all that these penalties should indeed be proportionate to the gravity of the offence. Not so high that someone's gonna have to sell the farm to pay the fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tanja Strniša, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We all know what the European Regulation also requires. It explicitly stipulates that penalties must be dissuasive, effective and proportionate. Now there has been a lot of talk about specific numbers, and I think it is good to read them out of the law, as is now being amended after the meeting of the home committee – punishment for farmers, fine for farmers is between 300 euros and 2,000 euros. It means in range. We all know that the inspector in the first infringement will never, in the ordinary infringement, impose a different penalty than the lowest. It is not fair, then, to say that we are endangering the existence of farms with these penalties. Of course, more fines are provided for in the law. If a legal person commits an offence, a fine of 5,000 is at stake, and we now reach the maximum possible penalty of up to 50,000 euros. The European Regulation says that harm in proportion to economic and environmental damage or in proportion to the damage caused and the penalties in the range only gives inspectors the opportunity to see, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for this debate when it comes to obvious fraud. [[...]] We in forestry and forestry have had many discussions with you and in the National Assembly. We all notice, we all get information about the timber columns that drive out at night. The effect of the law is directed towards these currents, not to small owners. It is true, however, that if someone does not have a document with them – the carrier is the only document that refers to a single decision that you once obtained for five years and after which I can clean up 100 cubic metres of wood, for example with 20 tractors or, if I have a large truck, with a correspondingly smaller number of transports. That's the only proof. If I get caught on the road without this document, how can I prove that this wood is linked to a decision and that it is not by chance from another plot, from another forest or without permission. That's impossible. If we want to implement the law fairly and effectively, we need to do so. It's not like I left home. The driver's license is valid. Whether I have it at home or on my own, I just forgot it. The carriage is valid only if I have it on me with a completed hour and date. That's all that proves is that this is transporting legal timber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Before that, Tomaž Lisec took the floor and then Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. I am particularly disturbed by this exercise, as was said that the inspector will do the smallest penalty in the first place. Then why did you write in Article 17, unfortunately we cannot amend it: "For offences under this law, a fine may also be pronounced in a swift procedure, even in an amount higher than the minimum prescribed fine laid down by this law." I already told you that on the board. There's gonna be an inspector, if he knows someone, he'll say, "Look, Franci, this is where you get your punishment." To someone with whom he has a bad experience, he will give a multiple, and he can also give the highest penalty. That's what we're talking about. Don't say he's just going to give the lowest penalty. The law says it's not true. As I told you before, I really hope you have examples from practice or from real life – this is an attack on a small farmer, a big one will escape you. The vast majority of those you want to catch will get away from you. If you don't believe it, ask a few colleagues from other agricultural or forestry holdings and you'll see. The hand washes the hand, so they say in forestry. The small farmer will force him to sell his forests and it is obviously in the interest of someone in Slovenia. We are talking about Slovenian self-sustainment and I do not know what, but Slovenian forest is no longer worth anything anyway. This will force the farmer, as the lady said before, without giving him to his descendants to sell him. Why would a farmer fight every day, every year for his forest, then come some inspector and slap him with some kind of punishment, which can also be a multiple of the lowest penalty. The punishments were already abnormal, lifeless in the original marriage. I think most Slovenian farmers, I'm talking about individual farmers, would think more about suicide than they would think about saving their forests. You cut them down on the board, and we want to make them real. We want to make them not undervalued, but real. I told you before that if thousands of euros are fined for transporting dangerous goods, here we still have between 300 and 2 000 euros for a farmer. Not 300 euros, from 300 to 2,000 euros! That's a big difference. It's about saving lives, if some truck of Petrol gets into the stream, they could be life-threatening. Here you will be able to forget a farmer at home or, as it says here, his trunk will be thicker than 10 centimeters, completely destroy, all his efforts to save the Slovenian forest. We still have a lot of them, including small farmers, but I have a feeling that some farmers don't afford forests or their self-sustainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you. Once again, the Secretary of State must have called for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I would like to stress again, or I have not said it yet today, but it is possible that the current law allows customs, police or forest inspectors to stop any transport of timber anywhere. Now there's no way. If the police stop a truck with wood, they can check the driver's license and other things. It's already a major acquisition of the law. That's why I believe we're going to catch the big ones because Customs is working night and day. I believe that's how we're going to get into these currents. I'm sure the big ones won't get away. Yes, I did. I mentioned fines for a farmer earlier. But if someone drives a truck with this kind of wood and makes five rides a day, and there are 20 cubicles on one truck – Mr. Member said earlier that if we take its price of 50 euros, one truck of wood is worth a thousand euros. However, for such premeditated violations it is essential that the punishment is so high that it is dissuasive. Because it's not that he cheated on or committed a home invasion in one of these values, but it's that such violations are very likely to happen again. Because, believe me, no one who is professional in this – I am not talking about farmers now, but about those who work professionally in this business – will sit behind the steering wheel without the carrier, risking such a punishment or sitting without the carrier, he will know the risks. Given how many of these transports we've calculated. [[...]] Calculate what kind of a year-round we have, now it's four million, and we can have five and a half, and how many transports are there if there's 20 cubic meters per transport, and what's the probability of a truck stopping one of the sixteen forest inspectors or how many customs officers and police officers we're going to have. For this reason, the penalty must be high, so dissuasive that all normal entities will not carry timber without this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u150	Madam Secretary of State, let me know if that's the point. How can more pickups take away cut wood that doesn't grow in the woods on a day? Then why should he have a transporter for wood that is not cut in the forest but in a bush somewhere where the agricultural land has grown 10 centimeters thick? Why, then, on the surfaces where this is the goal? If a forest owner goes to the Institute of Forests to be measured by a section, if he needs 20 cubic meters or 30 cubic meters for his own consumption of chicken, to issue a decision and it is written in the decision that he is for his own use, and then this wood is somewhere on a tow truck 30 kilometers away, it can be seen from this that he has violated what he is. However, if it is needed for its own use for heating – how many Slovenian families live in its own houses and how many of them went to heat on solid fuels or on wood only last year. How much is this amount of wood that some consider stolen? A lot of this was cut without a decision, probably without a decision. But if someone has cut wood and made a vowel that is not allowed, then let him be punished because he probably did it to sell it, not for his own needs. It bothers us. It is right to hunt down those who cut largely and make a dowry or make a decision to cut a few hundred cubits, cutting it down and taking it away. They're supposed to have carriages. The regulation requires the first buyer, then this buyer can sell it and this carrier, this document must somehow follow. But if it's for one's own sake that someone wants to build a barn and go chop up some spruce for a pear, and for God's sake, why should they keep the carrier at home for five years? I see no reason, we're more papal than the Pope, we want to intimidate people in every way. I went alone and he turned me down, but I shouldn't have. I told him to come and tell me which trees are for chopping because he's an expert. He marked them and said to cut them in two years. And now I'm going to go 15 times with a trailer to get this wood and I'm going to have to have a two-mile drive and I'm going to keep all these trucks for five years because I have to sign up for each one. But if I'm gonna run out of them, I have to go to the Forest Department and get some new ones. For God's sake, why? The bigger one, it's imperative to catch. Perhaps more than 50% of such forests where owners are larger and cut for sale if they are privately owned, 70% or more. But not then go to everything! It's the same as if fishermen were fishing for fish with dynamite. He knows what a mermaid is. Not doing that Pa extra work to the Forest Department, it's gonna be a mess out there. [[...]] They don't have the money, and they're gonna have to do it. See why we're complicating completely without need. In your replies, I did not get the right argument why carriers and the feeding of transporters for cut wood on non-land land and for their own consumption.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik and Dr Ljubica Jelusič also took part in the discussion. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Yes, in this debate we are also duplicative when we are talking on committees, in what way to prevent large quantities of one or more recorded, many times in black or undetected exports of wood; then we have a very uniform view that this must be limited. But now that we are talking about how we need to sort things out, we have a million arguments not to settle this. I, too, had been disturbed by the debate or position of one of the parliamentary groups, if we had a million cubic cubic metres of stolen wood in private forests. Of course it's not. It's absolutely not stolen wood. In the previous system, we said that wood was smuggled, not stolen, but not paid, and the taxes in the previous system were not paid because they were not payable. And that's why the wood had to be smuggled at the time, at home. But even then, we didn't say that wood was stolen from our own forest. I can't steal anything from myself, but of course I can steal from my neighbor. And now that you, Madam Secretary of State, have said, I don't know if this is true that in these state forests where concessions are given, there can't even be logs – but now I'm going to say, and that's where they can be stolen. If it does, it's stolen because it's national if it's not recorded when it's cut and taken away. I don't know if it's really possible to steal anything. I'm not entirely sure. But mainly because of the fact that I was already in the opinion of the Group of Members, I hope that it is clear enough to say that I think the most important thing at this point is what the rules on this carrier are going to be. What's this truck gonna be like? What's it gonna say? In fact, the last few days I wanted to get the data – it is true that I was gone last week – what the carrier looks like, what these procedures will be like, how this will take place not with one truck, but with 100 and 200 cubicles. How will all these procedures go, what will the carrier look like? In my opinion, if we had this already on the table, these discussions would certainly be significantly less. Otherwise, as far as punishment is concerned, we are here on this article. Although we have made an amendment with lower sentences than was later adopted, this amendment has certainly been too high. So, I propose the following: I would support the adoption of the SDS Group's amendment and the Government's third reading only to consider and prepare some appropriate, proportionate fine for different categories, as is the case for those sales organisers and small owners. This too has to be said – I don't know for sure, you know this at the Ministry – that forest owners are far from just farmers, whether small or large. Among forest owners, I will now say, certainly half of those who have no connection to agriculture are forest owners, but they are not farms, otherwise they are not engaged in agricultural activities. My guess is this number is probably even bigger. I am already missing this regulation on the carrier and perhaps the debate could be of better quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! I support the imposition of a penalty for the transport of timber which is unknown, of what and whose origin it is. And I'm going to tell you some special types of cases that we've been dealing with at least in Crassus lately. Although some of you put yourself on the side of small farmers and problems that they will also have when they get wood out of, not forests, but the grasslands, grasslands, when they clean it, it happens that most people, when they do it, cut it down, put it in piles and then bring it home when they collect enough for one proper transport. It happens that when they come to look for these trees, they are no longer there or are much reduced in purchases. In short, the crisis has also brought about one particular type of care, preparation for the winter, namely, people who are unemployed, who walk by car in the morning, with trailers in these forests or in the homes where we have wood prepared, and drive it to their homes, and they are not forest owners or farmers, but they are provided in such a way that they do not have to buy trees. We hope that this vehicle, which we understand as some kind of passport or document that you give along with the driver’s license and the driver’s license. This carrier will essentially be a document that will prove that such frauds, which are otherwise, can be said to be small-scale frauds in crime, these are small offences if they are pursued by the police and usually not by the police, because it does not deal with such small matters – but we hope that such small-scale frauds can also be driven out of our private lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. If I repeat, the sentence should be proportionate to the offence committed. The penalties prescribed in this law are exaggerated for the offence committed. Services that should already be in control of agricultural or forestry production do not work. There aren't many foresters in the state service, and we still have some inspectors, and that doesn't work. Now that the new institutions, customs, are involved in this process, matters will be further strengthened. Even now, more or less, what is transported through these flows of goods abroad has been equipped with a document called at least a delivery box, if not something else. So, the goods specification that went abroad was made. Even now on the truck. Why it has not been established whether this stems from legal cuts or illegal cuts is a matter for the Ministry and for the services that need to keep an eye on it under official duty. However, due to the introduction of the carrier, in my opinion, the commodity flows will hardly change. Some types of contracts exist, business will run because contracts will have to be met. The problem is, at home, we did everything we shouldn't have done to destroy the woodwork. That's the problem. That's why those food flows are there. But in this part, the law and the punishment do not separate between those who need or who will drive a thickness of 10 or more centimeters and will spend it at home for domestic chicken, and those who have smuggled in with those who sell estranged goods. In this part of the provisions, this law is not regulated. He punishes everyone equally, the one who needs a home for fire and cutting on a barren surface, and the one who has estranged or purposely cut off. And that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you. The next one to discuss is Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u158	I would like to talk to you about punishment from another point of view. You have given three reasons, namely the effectiveness of the sentence, the penalty must be effective, dissuasive and proportionate. But there was a talk about an education moment. It's completely illogical to raise an adult, mostly adults do it, drive tractors, trucks. This isn't about kids who need to be raised. And here I would point out a moment of dissuasiveness, this punishment would be bound to discouragement. Why? Because it's an irreversible process. The one who cut can't plant those trees back and say it's good. This means that this moment of deterrence should be exposed, to dissuade one of these acts. Again, why? Because it's an irreversible process. So it's a cut, and when the tree's cut, the story's over. But that top point is there are good people living in the countryside who have some of their own standards. [[...]] But raising an adult through these punishments is my way of thinking it's over.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted all the debaters who have been reported for discussion to Article 11. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it under Article 15? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I therefore note that we have held a debate on all the amendments tabled. The amendments will be decided on Monday, 15 July 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I could also give the floor to the representative of the Government if they arrive at the Chamber in time. Just a moment, the minister's coming as far as I can tell. Oh, it's about the pay phone. I give the floor to Dr. Uroš Grilc, Minister of Culture, to present the law further.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u160	Your Honor, hello! The Public Book Agency Act saw the light of the world in 2007 and today we are changing its image in three points. The first point concerns the identification of scientific press from the field of work covered so far by the Public Book Agency. The reasons are of a practical nature. In the procedures of work, in the tendering procedures, in the evaluation of book projects, it has been shown that scientific publicity, which has been legally transferred to the Public Book Agency’s work, is simply so specific and so entangled in scientific work, that it is proposed that this segment be reintroduced to the Public Research Agency, in particular due to the way in which this specific segment is addressed and placed. The second point of the law relates to the repeal of that Article of the ZUJF, which restricted the two public agencies last year to a very administrative and grave manner in determining the number of employees in public agencies to be financed by public funds. ZUJF has, of course, provided that a maximum of three employees in a public agency may be co-financed by public funds and that the Agency must obtain funds elsewhere for other employees. It does not have to be said that the public agency is the one who does not have any great potential for obtaining extra-budgetary resources and that it is not normal for three employees and a director to carry out all the tasks that the public agency is supposed to actually perform as the supporting body that will provide the Slovenian book with a good position in the cultural sense, in an economic sense, social sense, and which will in some way also expand the development of the reading culture. Practice has shown an even worse aspect of resolving this issue. The public agency introduced tariffs for notifiers and upon notification, natural persons were obliged to pay a certain amount, legal persons a slightly higher amount, and the biggest problem was that the tariff rate was to provide that those recipients of public funds granted to them by programmes and projects were to pay part of the contractual obligations of a certain percentage, 2 and 4 %, to reimburse the public agency in order to cover the costs of their operation. It is not too much to say that there is no saving here, but rather a rather unfortunate spilling of funds. Whatever the case, if the esteemed assembly decides that we have a Public Book Agency, which we have also decided in 2007, it is necessary to provide minimum working conditions. Here we are talking about a very small public agency and it is right that these conditions are also provided, otherwise it makes no sense and similarly applies to the Slovenian Film Centre of the Public Agency. The third change is of a substantive nature. At the time of the adoption of the law in the last reading, an amendment was tabled on the initiative of the Association of Slovenian Writers, which was also adopted by the National Assembly. In fact, the Public Book Agency was conceived, and so the mission in the first articles of this law is very precise and well defined, as the body that takes care of comprehensive book policy, which ensures that the entire book chain works optimally, it is from authors, publishers, bookstores, libraries to those who deal with the development of reading culture and not least to the reader. In the amendment, this representation of the listed articles of the book chain was limited only to authors' representatives and in some ways we had a public agency in which there was no publisher in the world of the public agency, there were no libraries, there were no bookstores and there were no representatives of the reading culture, but they were representatives of authors, translators, universities and SAZU. Practice has shown somehow [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates! At its 3rd regular session, on 28 June, the Committee on Culture considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia. She proposed the government's law. The College of the President of the National Assembly, however, decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The Legislative and Legal Service has drawn up an opinion and made comments to Articles 4 and 9. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. She felt that with its adoption, the Public Book Agency would be able to provide such an institutional environment in which it would be easier to carry out its mission by law and presented an oral opinion at the committee meeting by Dr. Zoran Bozič. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by four coalition groups, namely Articles 4 and 9, and amendments were forwarded by the same groups to the same articles. On 27 June 2013, a proposal for an amendment to Article 7 of the Committee was also tabled at the initiative of the SDS Group. The Committee was co-sponsored by: Minister of Culture, Mr Ivan Vogrin, representative of the Association of Slovenian Writers Vlado Zabot, representative of book publishers and bookkeepers at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia Zdravko Kafol, Director of the Public Agency for the Book Aleš Novak, representative of the Public Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia Dr Primož Pristovšek, representative of the State Council Dr. Zoran Bozič and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service of Mag. Method of feeding Pirnat. The Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, initially said that the adoption of the law would repeal the provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act relating to the JAK and that the Agency would be subject to the same control measures as other comparable indirect budgetary users. In view of the integrity of the scientific research work, including the publication of scientific works, the field of scientific press will be transferred to the Public Research Agency and the JAK Council will be changed, thus in line with the missions and objectives of the public agency. He also stressed that the Public Agency was set up to systematically take care of the development of the entire area of the book and thus the representation of all articles of the book chain is key to comprehensive policies in this area. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that their comments had been taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Coalition. The discussion of members and members and others invited was mainly about the transfer of the field of scientific press to the Public Research Agency and the change in the composition of the Council. At the same time, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that it is not clear how representative companies of writers and translators are defined. The main question to them is how the founder chooses from a number of proposals that he receives for one seat as a member of the Board of the Agency. In fact, even if there is only one representative company of writers or translators, this company can propose several candidates, but if there are more, it is very likely. However, the Minister explained that the change in the composition of the members of the Council is proposed because of the content of JAK's work, as well as the past exclusion of publishers and libraries in the world of the Agency. This was also specifically explained in his supplementary explanation, so I will not read it from the report. By Article 7, the SDS Group proposed an amendment to the Committee, in which they opposed the deletion of Article 11, paragraph 6, of the current JAK Act. The Committee drew up and adopted the amendment to Articles 4 and 9 and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you, too. And we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with co-workers, a nice greeting to all present! In 2009, with the establishment of the Public Book Agency, we received an agency that takes care of the book in its widest form. So it's not just about a physical book, it's about encouraging authors, their international presentation, reading culture, library compensation and so on. Part of the competence was transferred from the Ministry of Culture to the public agency, mainly in the field of beauty and part of it was brought from the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology at the time, precisely stated by the Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia, ARRS. Scientific publicity was transferred from this ARRS. Over time, it has been shown that, by the nature of things, scientific publicity essentially belongs to the ARS, and the current proposal of the law somehow regulates and restores this activity back to the ARS. The Public Finance Balance Act, which has financially weakened the Public Book Agency, which you know has a very small staff background, has also contributed in part to this. They are also more familiar with the ARS with scientific publicity and will easily take this action back. However, I would like to say here that humanities are being returned or added to the public agency. So, humanism in itself was previously not verbally involved in the very functioning of the Public Book Agency, it is now coming back. I would just like to say that we are actually pleased with the new composition of the Council of the Public Book Agency, which now includes, as Mr Minister has already said, the representatives of the libraries, the representative representing the reading culture, then we also have a representative of the publishing industry and others. In the Civil Gazette, we support amendments to the Law on the Public Book Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Certainly in the Slovenian People's Party we support any improvement in the functioning of the Public Book Agency. I don't know why the amendments to the law are adopted in the short term, because they involve changes in the larger articles or in the large changes, from funding to the replacement of the members of the expert commission. That is why we have quite a few concerns in our party about changes in the law. We agree that scientific publicity does not fall within this area and that it is more within the framework of science, as scientific publicity is very difficult to compete with everyone else within the framework of the book agency. However, we are concerned that human resources are being strengthened, and we suspect that nowhere is specified exactly how many people and how much money there is. Where will the necessary funds be taken from? We are also afraid that if the Minister was asked, if he was thinking honestly and honestly, if he were to be replaced and appointed by the new members of the Commission of Experts for Book and Magazine Production in the field of Science, he would not have been played by the weeding grass. We have the greatest concerns about finance, as the Public Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia also assumes all contractual obligations and rights under contracts for the financing of the scientific press concluded for the period 2012-2014. On the basis of the above, we consider that the changes are inconsistent, in particular with respect to the appointment of new members of the Council, as well as the envisaged transfer of obligations is not in accordance with Article 122 of the Bond Code, since the transfer requires the consent of another party. The most worrying thing is that it is not clear what is happening with potential adults and even irreparable obligations under these Treaties by the date of transposition. Thus, in the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed amendments to the law will not be supported, as we believe that the applicant's arguments that the proposed solutions will have no implications for the state budget do not hold. The proponents wrote that the adoption of the proposed law is expected to achieve greater cost-effectiveness in the short term in the functioning of the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia and the Public Agency for the Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as in the financing of programmes or projects of books and magazines in the field of beauty, humanities and science. We have concerns here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respected and respected! The key objective of the proposed amendments is to ensure an adequate institutional environment for the stable financing of scientific and civil society publishing activities. The amendments constitute the reorganisation of national book agencies and research activities by which the field of scientific publicity is transferred back to the Public Research Agency. The latter already has administrative and technical support for the implementation of calls for proposals and established channels of communication with applicants and for the financing of publicist activities in the field of science. In this way, procedures and operating costs will be optimized and costed accordingly, and the quality of services will not be reduced. The functioning of the system is being rationalised, which was also the aim of the Public Finance Balance Act, which significantly reduced the Public Agency for the Fund for Action. This law has compromised the agency's work in developing the environment for excellence in humanities and beauty and accessibility to the Slovenian book. These negative consequences of the Public Finance Balance Act are being remedied by this amendment of the Act. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law because the Public Book Agency allows such an organisation of an environment in which it will be easier to implement its own, by law-defined, mission. It is about enabling conditions for high-quality creativity in the field of humanities and beauty, strengthening awareness of the meaning of the Slovenian written book word, and worrying about the greater visibility of Slovenian artists in the field of humanities and beauty at home and in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u170	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia is important, but according to Nova Slovenije a largely under-known institution. What's the big deal? Its main tasks include making the Slovenian book more accessible, raising awareness of the importance of the book and reading for the development of individuals and society, and promoting excellence in the field of beauty and science. The Agency is carrying out many, in our opinion, very useful projects that promote the development of reading culture in young people. Let me mention the project "I am growing with a book" and "Let's move around" and the current national book campaign "There is no game without drama". The Agency carries out a number of book tasks and is thus a central body that helps to make the book more accessible to citizens and to read more attractive. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the return of the field of scientific print from the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia back to the Public Agency for the Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia, where, according to the general public, it is also the most important case. However, we are detained until the proposed amendments to the appointment of members of the Board of the Agency, which may mean an increase in the political impact on the appointment of members, and consequently the agreed, unintended use of public money dedicated to the field of the book. Some representatives of civil society have also pointed out this publicly in the process of examining the law so far. In Novi Slovenija we call on the Ministry of Culture and not least the RS Government to listen more to the warnings of civil society and together with their representatives find solutions that will not unnecessarily disturb stakeholders. We also disagree with the proposed repeal of Article 50 of the Public Finance Balance Act, which is another stone in undermining the effects of reducing budget expenditure. Members of the New Slovenia will not oppose the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! With the amendment to the Law on the Public Book Agency, which we are considering today, we are addressing the shortcomings that have proved in the functioning of the Agency so far. First, the provision of the ZUJF, which has administratively limited the Agency only to the financing of the programme, is deleted, which has caused the Agency to be unable to implement the work programme and to organise itself properly. The second amendment is the transfer of scientific publicity which is being transferred back to the Research Agency, since this area is more related to the research activity system, which, last but not least, is pleased with the Research Agency itself. The third amendment, which is likely to lead to the most debate, by amending the composition of the Board of the Agency, primarily follows the mission of the Public Agency for a Book, which was first set up to form a comprehensive policy on the field of the book. It must combine the interests of authors, translators, publishers, libraries, bookstores and all those involved in reading culture. The founder will therefore directly appoint three members to the Council of the Agency, one of whom is an expert in the work of the Agency, finance or legal matters, one is an expert in library activities and one is an expert in the field of reading culture. The other four members are appointed by the founder on the proposal of authors, translators, publishers and bookkeepers. Each expert group shall submit its proposals on a public call made by the Ministry responsible for culture. In this way, the responsibility for making proposals for members of the Council shall be transferred to the professional public. However, if the professional public were not to be uniform or not to respond to the call, the Minister must have the opportunity to form and appoint members of the Council, because otherwise there could be a blockade on the functioning of the public agency. The discussion at the meeting of the home working body raised the question of the representativeness of individual civil society organisations, but at the advice of the Legislative and Legal Service, it was not clear how the representative companies of writers and translators were defined, so it was impossible to identify representativeness without a legal basis. And in the opinion of the Centre of NGOs of Slovenia, that there are also mechanisms and practices for how NGOs are united in this regard, we believe in Positive Slovenia that the proposed solution, which implies the necessity of dialogue and negotiation within the professional public, is a well thought-out and appropriate solution, which does not, of course, prevent the Ministry from taking into account those comments from individual societies in the drafting of amendments to the sub-laws or act establishing a public agency. Finally, it has been established in the law also in accordance with a number of resolutions which at the level of the European Union and the Council of Europe discuss the representation of NGOs or civil society in managing bodies in matters of interest, which is undoubtedly the book's area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you, too. Janja Attack will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! With the proposed amendments, the field of scientific press from the Public Book Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred back to the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and thus all contractual obligations arising for the period 2012-2014. The transfer of part of the powers shall also harmonise the number and composition of the members of the Council and the number of committees of the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia. The Public Finance Balance Act reduced the funding for the operation of the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012 compared to 2011, making work more difficult. Therefore, it is also proposed that this area be transferred back to the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The transfer is agreed with this agency, the funds are provided. The latter should already have administrative and technical support in the implementation of calls and established channels of communication with applicants and in the field of publicist funding in the field of science. The government and representatives of the Agency promise that this way the procedures and costs of operation will be optimized and costed accordingly, and the quality of services will not be reduced. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, a number of discussions were also attended by a change in the composition of the Council of the public agency, which according to the Ministry, is in line with the missions and objectives of the public agency. Since a public agency is set up to systematically take care of the development of the entire area of the book, the representation of all articles of the book chain is the key to comprehensive policies in this area. However, the proposal does not include representatives of the society of writers, which the representative of the company also pointed out. In addition, it should be stressed that the profession does not mean the same science. They estimate that with the new composition of the world an important part, i.e. authors, is excluded. This is also why we have some problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, which will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted by the National Assembly in 2007 with the consent of all Members and Members present, but the unity of the role and importance of the Agency, as expressed at the time, did not last for long. Paradoxically, the government, in approximately the same composition, only five years after its establishment, pushed the way towards the termination of the agency and thus intended to upgrade the lightweight project of the lean state administration. The Public Finance Balance Act of the Public Book Agency has indeed not abolished and has practically prevented the fulfilment by law of certain tasks. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have strongly opposed attempts at institutional destabilisation and politicisation of the work of the Agency. We have addressed several initiatives to the previous government, have tabled an amendment to the ZUJF, have prepared a draft legislative amendment, and have also recorded the threat to its functioning in the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the competent minister, so the proposal for the amendment of the law before us today is understood as the implementation of the recovery programme to remedy the consequences of the previous government's actions in the field of the book, which, at that time, was announced by Dr Uroš Grilc at his presentation to the Committee on Culture. For the Group of Social Democrats, it is most important that the proposal removes the shortcomings of the regulation in force. In this regard, we note in particular the elimination of the unattainable restrictions on public co-financing of the operation of the Agency set by the ZUJF. Before the adoption of the so-called savings law by public means, they acted extremely cost-effectively and responsibly at the agency. We believe that they will not give up on such behavior after receiving the novel. Not least, they are bound by the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. We also support the transfer of scientific activities to the Research Agency and the completion of the composition of the Council with representatives of publishers and bookkeepers. In the future, we expect the Minister and the Government to be even more sensitive to tax policy issues in the field of the book, including its electronic version, which is subject to a higher rate of taxation. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have addressed to the previous government several requirements for ensuring the environment for the Agency's political independence. That is why, after considering the proposed amendment on the Committee on Culture, we paid even more attention to the protest letter from the Association of Slovenian Writers. In it, writers point out that a different way of proposing members of the Board of the Agency, which has been introduced by the amendment to the Comment of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, may threaten the expertise and independence of its operation. We therefore welcomed the reassuring response that the Ministry of Culture would take the comments of society into account when amending the Agency's acts and would make it more difficult for those candidates for members of the Council to be proposed by housing associations. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new Law on the Public Book Agency. In addition to the implementation of institutional support in the field of the book, the innovation of some projects strengthens us in the belief that the establishment of the agency was a blue decision. Among these, let me mention only the latest project of integration of the European basketball championship and the book under the slogan "There is no game without drama" designed by the agency with Eurobasket organisers in cooperation with publishers and bookkeepers. I conclude with this project with the desire that, in the field of the book, there will be as little political drama as possible in the future and that the proposal of the novel will also be supported by those with whom we shared our conviction a few years ago about the importance of the agency for the strengthening and development of Slovenian cultural identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Monday, 15 July 2013, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 21. This is a draft resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2014-2018. The motion for a resolution was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to Minister for Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, for further explanation of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u178	Your Honor! The Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2007-2011 expired as of 2012. In order to draw up the technical guidelines for language and policy decisions and actions in the next five years in a timely manner, the Ministry of Culture began to draw up a new national programme in 2010. For organisational reasons, work has been delayed so that the new resolution is ready for the period 2014-2018. I will only outline the main objectives of Slovenian language policy in the new programme. Firstly, the creation of a community of independent speakers with developed linguistic ability in Slovenian, with sufficient knowledge of other languages, with a high level of linguistic confidence and an appropriate level of readiness for acceptance and cultural diversity. Secondly, the formal incorporation of Slovenian language policy both by roof law and by specific provisions of specific sectoral laws, regulations and other acts. Thirdly, to strengthen the care and responsibility of Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account all speakers who do not have the mother tongue of Slovenia; members of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, the Roma community, other linguistic communities, immigrants and all others who come or wish to come within or outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia into contact with the Slovenian language. Fourthly, particular attention should be paid to the advantages and challenges posed by the fact that Slovenia is an official language of the European Union. The resolution is structured into four key chapters. To the Chapter on Language Education, which aims to increase the number of qualified teachers and learners for competent use of manuals and other language sources, to increase the number of language technology knowledgeers, to increase the number of participants in language education processes for foreign, domestic and expatriate children, to ensure the quality and optimisation of the expansion and learning of foreign languages, to coordinate the planning and development of language education for speakers with special needs and to provide language arrangements for higher education and science. Language equipment is a second chapter; coordinated development and development of basic and specialized language manuals and language infrastructures, online accessibility with as much data as possible on Slovenian, a coordinated plan for the development of language technologies based on the review of the situation and the priorities set, and increased availability of digitalised works of written and cultural heritage, textbooks for Slovenian and scientific production. The third chapter is a formal legal aspect. We need to achieve a more effective formal legal framework for Slovenian language policy and a comprehensive assessment of the Slovenian language situation in relation to the various parameters that will serve to prepare a new national language policy programme. Chapter four: Slovenian in the European Union. It is necessary to provide appropriate professional, language, terminology assistance to Slovenian translators and interpreters in the EU institutions in order to prepare a reliable Slovenian version of EU legislation, as well as to translators and interpreters in Slovenia, who linguistically represent us in the international community. In the next programming period, Slovenian language policy must provide an appropriate institutional and programme framework for the development of such linguistically planned steps, which will be responsible, professionally, qualitatively and operationally effective in achieving the objectives set. For this language policy programme, it provides for an initial implementation step towards achieving the objectives, the creation of two coherent, independent and integrated language political documents: an action plan for language education and an action plan for language equipment. This approach in the national language policy programme is also based on knowledge of the identified shortcomings in the previous programme's approach, as the problem of creating an effective language policy is linked to an extremely inter-sectoral level. And in this way, with two action plans, through the creation of specific expert commissions, we think that we will achieve a much more effective achievement of the objectives set. Finally, let me just say that the programme has been coming up for a long time to be prepared by two project groups to show that the programme is professionally very wide-ranging, and I am glad that the profession also strongly supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you, too. The resolution was also addressed by the Committee on Culture as the parent working body. And the committee's report will be delivered by the president, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, MEPs and Members of Parliament! At its 3rd meeting, on 28 June, the Committee on Culture considered the draft resolution on the national language policy programme 2014-2018. The proposal was submitted by the Government. The Legislative and Legal Service made comments to the three sub-chapters. The Commission of the National Assembly has considered the resolution as an interested working body and has pointed out some inadequacies in the use of individual professional terms and has also made several proposals for amendments to the Committee. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, and supported and proposed several amendments. The oral opinion was presented by Dr. Zoran Bozič. Pursuant to Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee made a public presentation on 26 June. The purpose of this presentation was to obtain opinions and views from both the expert and the general public on the motion for a resolution. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by four coalition groups, namely, the fifth sub-chapters, the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, under three sub-chapters, and put forward a proposal for a new sub-chapter. Mr Möderndorfer also tabled amendments to the four sub-chapters and proposed one new sub-chapter. The Committee was attended by Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc, Head of Service for Slovenian Language at the Ministry of Culture, Dr. Simona Bergoč, President of the Association of Blind and Invisible Slovenians Tomaž Vraber and member of this company Jožef Gregorc, representative of the Institute of Josef Štefan, Dr. Simon Krek, representative of SAZU, Dr. Janez Oresnik. I have already mentioned the representative of the National Council of Zoran Bozič and the representative of the Legal and Legal Service, Dr. Only Divac. In its introduction, the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, said that the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2007-2011 had expired as of 2012. He again presented the reasons for the delay. He then presented the main objectives of Slovenian language policy in the new programme. These objectives are five: to raise the level of linguistic ability or literacy in Slovenian, to provide quality language equipment for effective communication, to strengthen the care and responsibility of Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, and to take account of all speakers who do not have a native language, to formalise Slovenian language policy and petitions, to pay attention to the advantages and challenges of the fact that Slovenia is an official language of the European Union. In view of the previous programme, the national language policy programme 2014-2018 has reduced the number of operational objectives and highlights the strategic orientation and focus on the implementation of key areas of language policy in the next period. This approach allows for more systematic and coherent operators, as well as a more realistic perspective on the performance of individual tasks. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service considered the resolution to be more difficult to understand. He also warned that such an act, such as the resolution, did not judge the indicator and the explanation, so he proposed deleting them. In the course of the discussion, the members and members of the Committee and others invited spoke in particular about the activities of the Institute for Slovenian Language, Fran Ramovša and its representation in the motion for a resolution, the availability of literary, professional and other texts for blind and visually impaired, deafness and people with reading disabilities, the recognition of sign language for deaf persons and the management of foreign languages and language education. Some concerns were also expressed regarding the use of different terms for minorities. Since the report is in writing before you, let me just say that the amendments adopted were included in the amended proposal. And before you are also proposed amendments that you can understand from the amendment review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Just as people belonging to the same culture must have similar conceptual maps, language signs must be interpreted in the same way. Because this is the only way we can effectively exchange our meanings, so we think that the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2014-2018 is still important. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the updated motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme, as it adequately defines the responsibility of the State of Slovenia to implement and build up language policy. The proposed national programme follows contemporary Slovenian language realities. The resolution also pays particular attention to maintaining and developing the vitality and dynamics of the Slovenian language in various areas of expertise. Everything is nice and good, but after careful consideration and practice so far, the issue of efficiency is raised here. Will the measures envisaged to achieve the programme objectives ensure the development of the Slovenian language, especially as a professional or scientific language? In the Slovenian People's Party, we also have concerns about the state's attitude towards the everyday use of language in practice. The most concerns concern the use and development of the Slovenian professional or scientific language. How can someone translate a professional English term into Slovenian if he has never heard of Slovenian, since only English literature has been offered to him in the university, which is normal, since publications of scientific texts in foreign magazines have priority over publications in the Slovenian scientific press under habilitation conditions. Nevertheless, university representatives say that they will keep Slovenian as a professional and scientific language, or even have it written in the university’s statutes. But that's all they do. In the resolution you wrote: "Language regulation of higher education and science; the source of the measures in the resolution is the assumption that Slovenian universities and the Republic of Slovenia want to maintain and further develop Slovenian as a language of higher education and language of science." This is utopia, because under the cover of acquiring international knowledge students offer exclusively English literature, because they cannot prepare presentations in Slovenian language or write books, because it is too little load and therefore does not yield enough profits. Knowledge of foreign languages is important. But with this way of working, no college maintains and develops Slovenian language as a professional language. If this trend continues, and if we take into account the poor knowledge of motherhood of pupils and students from primary and secondary schools, we will slowly receive so-called experts who will be illiterate in their mother tongue. This is very worrying and we therefore stress that the resolution is essentially insufficient. We will all have to work together to keep and develop Slovenian as a scientific and professional language. We are also very interested in how you will enforce language policy at universities that Slovenian professors will not teach Slovenian students in foreign languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister with fellow Members! When interacting with global English and other major languages of the European Union, the issue of the existence of Slovenian language in the future is still at stake. The motion for a resolution on a national language policy programme offers concrete answers and solutions. Among the objectives of the national programme are concern and responsibility for foreigners, as well as all those who do not have a mother tongue, in addition to formal programming of the Slovenian language policy. So, members of the Hungarian and Italian national minorities, Roma communities and other linguistic communities and immigrants. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the fact that the resolution pays special attention to speakers with special needs, especially deaf ones, and to the Slovenian sign language. The sign language gives deaf people the opportunity to express themselves, thereby preventing their isolation and allowing them to exercise all human rights and freedoms more equally. Recognition of sign language will increase the possibility for deaf people to have access to adequate education and social and professional inclusion. The position of Slovenian language in higher education and science also applies. Slovenian universities must maintain and further develop Slovenian as a language of higher education and a language of science. We are aware of the desire and need for internationalisation, but the use of the Slovenian language in higher education and science cannot constitute an obstacle to the process of international integration and cooperation. For this reason, we particularly support measures that lead to the preservation of the status of Slovenian as an official and learning language of higher education and to the improvement of the status of Slovenian as a language of science. Tone Pavček wrote: "We are with the language of what we are. In language we live, with language we separate from others, language is the organ of our soul, our weapons, our identifying mark, our essence and our essence." In the DeSUS Group, we will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you, too. And Mrs Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u186	Your Honor! Slovenia is first our mother tongue, at least for most Slovenian citizens, then our official language and one of the 24 official languages in the European Union. Our great-grandfathers only dreamed of Slovenian as the official language of the country, and we live this dream and can only be grateful to our ancestors that they have managed to preserve our language despite the various pressures and various authorities. But the language is a living thing, because it's constantly evolving, perfecting, upgrading. But it can also be extinct and forgotten if we do not treat it carefully enough. Since we Slovenians are only a relatively small nation, surrounded by nations whose language differs significantly from that of Slovenia, except for Croatian, we also had to learn the languages of our neighbours and other European languages all the time. That is why we have an even greater responsibility to preserve, develop and use the Slovenian language. Education at all levels is extremely important for the preservation, use and development of the language. Studies show that in Slovenia we have a problem with a low level of functional literacy, so much attention should be paid to this in the educational process. In addition to theoretical and practical knowledge, we need to inform young people in particular of the meaning of the mother tongue, while at the same time making learning Slovenian as attractive as possible, so that young people learn Slovenian with joy and not with resistance, as is unfortunately happening too often due to demanding textbooks and excessive curricula. The resolution also underlines the importance of learning Slovenian outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, in place or in the field of Slovenian National Communities of all four neighbouring countries. Slovenia is particularly concerned about learning Slovenian in our evicts, returnees, children and youth of our evicts, natives and foreigners. Providing financial resources for learning the Slovenian language, which Slovenia provides to a large extent – courses in Slovenia, language camps, competitions, all of this helps to create a single Slovenian cultural space and helps to preserve the mother tongue even among Slovenes living outside Slovenian borders. The resolution also stresses the importance of learning Slovenian for immigrants. Knowledge of the language of the countries in which someone lives and works certainly increases opportunities for greater inclusion in society and also increases their competitiveness in the labour market. Just as we want members of Slovenian minorities outside the Slovenian border to be able to use and educate in the Slovenian language, which must first be provided by their home country and, according to their best ability, Slovenia helps to do so, it is right that both minorities, Hungary and Italy, also enjoy all the attention and support of Slovenia in preserving and using the minority language. In doing so, it is important to stress that knowledge of the language of neighbouring countries can be a great advantage and a bridge between the two countries. The European Union also encourages language learning in neighbouring countries and the preservation of Europe's linguistic diversity. In Novi Slovenija we advocate the promotion and development of Slovenian in traditional and new areas. With the development of science and new technologies and globalisation processes, it is essential to complement, upgrade, and use them consistently, in particular in technology, information technology, entrepreneurship, university, tourism, and therefore an active language policy of the country is needed. Slovenian citizens must be assured that they can talk about all public matters and get information about the Slovenian language. We expect officials representing Slovenia in the European Union institutions to consistently exercise the right to use Slovenian as one of the official languages of the European Union. The motion for a resolution is a complex document setting out the basis for achieving the above. The current consideration of the resolution has shown great interest in stakeholders who have proposed many additions and some amendments. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, New Slovenia supported the efforts of the Institute for Slovenian Language Fran Ramovša at ZRCS SAZU to have the last word in Slovenian normative manuals such as spelling and others. We will support the resolution by Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The general part of the proposal on the national language policy programme 2014-2018 has already been said and we fully agree with it, so I will focus only on the so-called national or minority aspect of the document. As we have consistently recognised, within the framework of the organisations of the national communities, that there is a gap between the constitutional, international and legal provisions on the public and private use of the Italian and Hungarian languages and the implementation of those provisions in practice, and in the light of the fact that the problems are so much greater, due to the lack of control over the implementation of the provisions of the legislative acts, we have decided, in the context of the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme 2014-2018, to build on the text of the proposal. We are pleased to note that we have met with a very constructive and positive approach by the competent office of the Ministry of Culture, including the Ministry's management, as well as all the other entities and factors with which we have participated in the past weeks. As a result, at the stage of the consideration of the motion for a resolution, from the Commission on the National Communities to the Home Committee on Culture, we have succeeded in actually upgrading the original text proposal and we hope that we will be further complemented by it today or in the context of the vote or decision at the plenary session on Monday. In order to facilitate understanding of our proposed complement, let me conclude that the main drawback of the original motion for a resolution from the point of view of indigenous national communities was that it did not bring in comprehensive system policies and specific action plans for language education and language equipment from the point of view of those communities or their mother tongue. In the context of the in-depth coordination on the amendments, as I have already said, we have unanimously drawn up proposals that will definitively upgrade the resolution document. If I limit myself only to the substance and foreseeable effects that we want to achieve with the content of the most important amendment in Chapter 2. 1. 5. The languages of minorities and immigrants in the Republic of Slovenia – because I will not delay the interpretation of amendments that are more formal in nature and go to correct the constitutionally conditioned rules and terms relating to the expression for the national communities, which are also proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service – should be stressed that special care is intended for the use and enforcement of the language of the national communities and the Roma community, as well as for the language rights of other minority groups and immigrants in accordance with the law, international document and declaration relating to this area. The new resolution provides in particular for positive effects such as coordinated planning, development and implementation of language and education policies, increased number of language-qualified public servants and officials in the language of indigenous national communities, adequate media presence of languages of indigenous national communities, Roma communities, other minorities and immigrants, awareness of the existence of languages of indigenous national communities, Roma communities, other minorities and immigrants in other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of education and education, information and media activities, cultural activities and scientific research activities. So that I will not be too long, at this relatively late time, let me stress once again that the draft resolution on the national language policy programme with the proposed supplements – I hope that they will be adopted – enjoys our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you, too. Mr Dragan Bosic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u190	Nicely greeted! Culture and language are obviously the strongest that still persist in this space. For starters, in Positive Slovenia we will support the resolution. I'd like to give you a few reasons why. First of all, the expertise of the people working on this resolution – the Minister – I do not know if I may have counted correctly, but we listed three groups, one of which is the commission in between – and twice the public debate, one ended exactly one year ago or around 15. 7. The second is now in February, after this resolution has gone into inter-sectoral coordination and is here in front of us as it is. The key reason, I think, in the introduction to his presentation, is a clearly defined vision that speaks of qualified speakers and speakers in the Slovenian language with a high linguistic ability. That's the key. Then operationalization to achieve these goals. Indeed, we are talking about two action plans for language education and equipment. Language education is clearly based on the results in 2010, according to the results of the enrollment, a bit of a secret, because our 15-year-olds did not achieve the goals that we wanted or where we wanted to put them. And in this way, the new resolution will then be able to verify itself through these results, which are an objective indicator. As far as equipment is concerned, we know if there is no digitisation – the end of the language. Of course, the equipment, which allows blind people to at least partially see something coming into the category of readers as we talked to them, and deaf people to hear something. This resolution also allows them to do so. The key thing that seems to us in Positive Slovenia, however, is to move language from a category of tools or weapons, for which we abuse it many times in this space to a category of food, even in Europe. Given our smallness, we may be spices, but spices add some flavor. We can be such a spice, which will complement this flavor in Europe, but it must be our main dish, and, of course, our children. Finally, if I take this opportunity, I stress this concern which the Resolution on the National Programme of Language Policy places on those people whose Slovenian language is not the mother tongue. I am pleased to present this resolution to you in my third language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you, too. Mr Andrej Čuš will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Preparations of the resolution on language policy have been taking place in the Republic of Slovenia since 2010. The aim of the resolution before us is to create speakers with developed linguistic ability in Slovenian, with knowledge of other languages and readiness to adopt linguistic and cultural diversity. Among the objectives of the national programme are, in addition to the above-mentioned formal legal framework of Slovenian language policy, concern and responsibility for foreigners and all those who do not have a native language, i.e. members of the Hungarian and Italian national minorities, Roma communities and other linguistic communities and immigrants. The programme also pays particular attention to the challenges presented by Slovenia as the official language of the European Union. We are pleased that the resolution pays particular attention to the Slovenian Sign Language, since its preparers have recognized sign language as a language and not only as a method of learning Slovenian. However, when adopting the resolution of the programme on language policy, we would draw attention to the delays already mentioned from 2010 onwards. In addition, we regret that the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art was not invited to prepare proposals, as the role of the SAZU is crucial in determining the normative nature of Slovenian manuals, such as the spelling and dictionary of the Slovenian book language. In view of the public presentation of opinions, in view of the debates on the Committee on Culture and also in the light of the amendments, we will support the draft resolution on the national language policy programme for the period 2014-2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thanks again for saying that. I repeat my greetings. The resolution on language policy in Slovenia is actually the result of three articles which define the tasks and responsibilities of public authorities in the Public Use Act of Slovenia. Article 26 refers to the tasks of ministries, Article 27 defines the coordinating body and Article 28 on the national programme. Why am I talking about this? Because it is possible to understand in Article 28, paragraph 2, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned about the implementation of the national programme and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia regularly monitors its implementation. However I try to remember whether the National Assembly has ever dealt with the question of the implementation of the resolution on language policy, the previous one, I find that it does not. Just as I cannot say that we would have an overview of what were the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the reports that the Government has found on the implementation of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. I associate this simply with the fact that the text already mentioned in the first resolution, which says that the Ministry of Culture with the existing, then the Slovenian sector within the Ministry of Culture cannot do everything that was imposed on them by law. And I am particularly reminding you in these times when we are particularly written and sworn savers that it is that a resolution on language policy will be able, which will also be realistic, to be linked to a real willingness to appoint, to employ a sufficient number of experts to enable everyone to carry out the prescribed tasks prescribed by law. This is all the more so for all the things that the power in this resolution is also to read. We do have the measures envisaged and also the indicators by which we will assess whether or not the resolution has been implemented. And I must say that, as stated in the resolution, the Ministry of Culture, as that first agency for this resolution, has stipulated that these tasks are large and are ahead of a very difficult task. The public presentation of the opinions tried to answer ten questions. And only three questions I'm going to try and point out as quickly as I can. The question is, what are the expectations of the Slovenian public in relation to this resolution and the state of Slovenian in our society? I think that this resolution has indeed put forward the task of paying attention not only to Slovenian but also to all other languages that fall within the framework of Slovenian language policy. Several times, it has already been assured or stated what kind of speakers should become when this resolution is implemented. But what I think is essential in this resolution is also a reminder that we must become such speakers, who in various language positions will also choose the Slovenian language and apply a number of measures of the resolution. The second question that I find very interesting is whether we will do enough. Here are mainly two action plans and when I talked about what tasks are ahead at the Ministry of Culture, I was just thinking about the timetable for action plans. Also on everything that will have to be done by a newly formed working body within the Government. It would also deserve a special consideration of the third issue, which I have not been able to present now, which is a matter of language or, in particular, of Slovenian in higher education. There'll be time to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you, too. Mrs Polonca Komar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme 2014-2018, and we are pleased that this legal act before us is the result of a very broad public debate involving a very large part of the public concerned with the field of language policy, which has undoubtedly helped us to have a quality proposal ahead of us. The resolution sets out the following objectives of Slovenian language policy, as already mentioned by Mr. Minister, and allows me to quickly fly them: to raise the level of linguistic ability or literacy in Slovenian, to provide the speakers and speakers of Slovenia with quality language equipment for effective communication, and to strengthen the care and responsibility of Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account all speakers who do not have a native language, and to formalize Slovenian language policy. As the last objective of the resolution, the resolution states; to pay particular attention to the advantages and challenges posed by the fact that Slovenia is an official language of the European Union. The language policy vision of the Republic of Slovenia is to provide Slovenia with a dominant role in official and public life within the country, while at the same time allowing for communication and communication in other languages in accordance with the legal and democratically legitimate contractual needs of its citizens, other residents and visitors. The proposed resolution is more operational compared to the previous one, providing for concrete working bodies with specific responsibilities of the resources, thus reaching an effective language policy. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the motion for a resolution, and we will also support the amendment of the parliamentary coalition groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the sub-chapters and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 July 2013. I am putting to the debate sub-chapter 2.1.1. and the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Emissary Group. I'm opening the debate and inviting you to take the floor. Mrs. Janja Attack has the first word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much again for your word. In those areas where Slovenian acts as the language of the minority national community, it should be particularly advocated, i.e. for its mother tongue and care where it may be most at risk. Language education also means developing and completing the linguistic ability of Slovenian speakers and speakers as the first language. I am pleased that we are focusing on our linguistic potential not only in the cultural sense, in the expansion or preservation of the Slovenian national community in Europe, but also in the economic sense; otherwise, it is known that 96% of all the world languages are smaller than ours, so there is no need to be afraid of extinction. However, it is important to think about the existence of Slovenian language beyond our borders, and this is because language is always dependent on our consciousness. We are also talking about the promotion of language, which means the reality of language in the modern world, i.e. the increase of participants in educational processes. The goal, we can say, is mostly practically useful or culturally hereditaryly descriptive. For linguistics, Slovenian is as interesting as any other language if it is only addressed in the context of linguistic theory. And when we talk about the poverty of Slovenian, we can say that when terminology does not develop. However, the general use of the language is often influenced by the fact that in the past we have taken many words into Slovenian from other languages, perhaps in a two-way process we should start thinking again now. Even in this expansion and development of morphology, more than scientific texts are important scientific and professional texts and university textbooks. In addition, let me say that the profession does not mean the same as science, but for the Slovenian book language and at the same time the use of local languages, i.e. dialects, needs to be taken care of sensitively. I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you. In fact, the amendment we are currently talking about shows what difficulties we are facing when writing a text comes from experts who are not lawyers and who do not take into account legal terminology. What is quite clear to these experts can be the subject of long-standing debates in the political language in the debate of the Committee on Culture, because what is a clear term in sociolinguistics, which is a clear term in sociology, is not necessarily recorded in the legal provisions in force. That is why it is one of those amendments, which in fact merely introduces an appropriate legal definition so that we know what a change it is. The original text said: "In the territory of the Italian and Hungarian communities, care for quality education......" Legally correct it is: "In the areas of the municipalities where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, care for quality education......" And so on. It is precisely because we are in favour of introducing the right deadlines into a document such as a resolution on national language policy or in Slovenian language policy that we will support the Social Democrats. However, I would point out something that I think we will have to do sooner or later at the level of the theoretical discourse. Finally, we will have to face different views and names of the same groups or of the same or similar groups. A review of the terminology across Europe shows that this is different in countries, and we also have a few concepts in our country that some find difficult to deal with. We have indigenous national communities, we have a Roma community, we have communities of the peoples of the former Yugoslav countries or the peoples of the former SFRY. Then we have minorities, for example, a German-speaking minority, and we have immigrants. These terms will need to be defined in detail slowly. I believe that this is a very sensitive issue that needs to be discussed with a lot of sensitivity and with a lot of tolerance and nothing to force. This is the only way we will be able to regulate matters properly and in accordance with this resolution, which speaks of the consideration of each and every first language. After the constitution and after this resolution, we must allow it, not only allow it, but also enable it to maintain and develop its linguistic and cultural identity. Unfortunately, some of the Committee's discussions in this regard have not been the most successful and have shown quite a lot of rigour. However, I hope that we will overcome these misunderstandings and, in particular, eliminate empty fears. The amendment removes some terminology embarrassment and we will support it by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you, too. The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a relatively good job because Mrs Potrata has precisely explained the purpose of this amendment, so this is an editorial amendment. With this text, we are following in concrete terms the constitutional policy on the use of terminology in relation to national communities, so that this amendment was needed in this respect and, of course, I will also support it. But then I would not return to the content which was also opened by Mrs Potrate in the following explanation. I'd say two about that. Undoubtedly, it is important that this issue of the use of the term, but not only the term, but also the actual placement of national communities or minorities, as you wish, be opened at the professional level and discussed, but it is very important that we try for this geographical space, namely the Central European space, especially to nurture and preserve the word autonomy. Indeed, this word in the wider European context, and in particular in the global context, is sometimes, I will say misinterpreted or, for some other reason, put in the wrong context. In this space, I believe that autonomy is of particular importance, both from the point of view of the national communities in Slovenia and from the point of view of the Slovenians living outside the borders, especially in their place, it is extremely important that we deal with this term with autonomy very responsibly. But, and this is the second thing I mention, but it is important to point out that this does not mean that indigenous national communities are more or less than other minorities in this context. This is a difference, it is a different historical framework and the treatment of such communities. That is why I think it is right to talk about this, but in principle I think that this approach, as we are now looking at in this resolution, is a very correct formulation. Perhaps in those groups that we have now unitedly written for or written for a minority — things need to be defined slightly and also defined and substantively defined. But I think that more or less, as far as the indigenous national community is concerned and the Roma community, these terms are as right as I think they are. And that concludes it. I say that, as far as the word of autonomy is concerned, I will use an ugly word, not just those trends that do not always come from the Western European circles, and they do not always come from the Western European community in a "American way". So, in Central Europe, this issue is much more varied, much more diverse, and much different, historically conditioned. Clearly, then, it is important that we pursue these things with great responsibility and expertise. In short, I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you. There was still an interest in the debate and I invite you to apply for the floor. I give the floor to Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u204	It seems to me that minorities living in Slovenia have every opportunity and all the conditions for learning and using their language in the field and in the municipalities where they live. On the other hand, I have certain concerns about the language of immigrants. Slovenia is already spending quite a few resources on the optional learning of the languages of these immigrants, which I also think is extremely good and right, but I have concerns about how I read here in an explanation that these languages should become the first languages of immigrants, so they should be taught as their first language and the Slovenian as their second language. Here I have doubts because I believe that someone who has come to Slovenia for various reasons, I think, is the first duty – and has every right to preserve his language, his culture, his belongings, but must be revived or home in the country in which he lives. And this country is not obliged to provide support or support already, but to provide it with instruction in its language as in its first language. I think we are putting too much pressure on ourselves – sometimes we said it was Serbian and it was one language, today we are talking about Croatian, Serbian and another language, Macedonian, Albanian and not all – if we have to ensure that people or young people learn these languages as first languages, then I fear that this will be impossible and too much financial burden. I would therefore like to ask for an explanation of what this means. I reiterate that I respect all languages and nationalities, but I believe that everyone who moves to a country in his own interest must accept this language and that the country must allow him to keep his language, but not in the way it is written in this resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I will support myself, and we will also support the amendment we are now talking about in the Positive Slovenia Group. We are convinced that in Slovenia or Slovenia we have the possibility of minorities or communities living here to express themselves and speak in their own language, while at the same time having the opportunity to develop Slovenian language as a language. For the tongue is more than a word spoken or written, or a word written. The language speaks and represents history, represents the present and also represents the future of a nation, so it is also right that both minorities and most of them have the opportunity to form and develop their language, so I supported and support the ministry that has joined in this way to present this resolution. The resolution was brought together by all the smaller groups that made certain proposals and those proposals were also taken into account. I have slightly expanded the presentation of this amendment, but it is right to say that language is not just a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you. I don't think Dr. Göncz is ascribed to me to have any concerns about the established situation of the two indigenous national communities. It's an untouchable question for me, it solves the constitution. Where I have found the problem to be discussed is that I use the word minority as a reminder for different categories of constitutionality and so on, but some simply fear this term. As I have now seen from the discussion of Collegiate Novak, the resolution contains a special chapter on the language of minorities and immigrants in the Republic of Slovenia. The debate on the Committee was also about the distinction between minorities and immigrants. I advocate integration. If we want to achieve, and now I will address the issues of higher education to defend the mobility of students and professors, to face the seemingly incompatible appearance of the use of language in higher education – on the one hand we defend the national language, on the other hand we want to internationalise our higher education – it is a place of higher education that shows that the state has to do something and also some money to contribute to it if it wants to integrate students and higher education teachers into our higher education space. It may take about a year for them to learn Slovenian as much as possible, and four years for them to be able to give a qualified lecture. And for me, the fundamental question is, if I advocate, and I am fully in favour of the necessity of Slovenian scientific language, I see the need for the openness of Slovenian scientific and higher education spaces. But this openness must also be united by allowing those who are willing to come, who are also willing to stay in our higher education space for a long time, to learn Slovenian. And that, in my opinion, is the responsibility of the state. Those who come may also be immigrants because they are atomized, individual. Now with minorities We read in the resolution the very important fact that whoever is a good speaker in the first language is then easier to learn from all other languages. [[...]] Therefore, in promoting learning or allowing expression in the first language, whatever it is, and following the latest statistical data, it is 13.6% in Slovenia – I think I have said to the tenth and 13 are reliable – citizens and citizens who do not have the first language. I'm not for assimilation, if you know what I mean, I'm for integration, I don't see Europe as a melting pot and an American attempt to wipe out national identity, because we see that in time the desire to get to know the roots is coming back. If we could suddenly track this language universe in America, then the same strong linguistic universalism against linguistic individualism also begins. And here I think that the country's responsibility to immigrants also has a very important emphasis in European language policy. When I think about the protests of French young people years ago, if you remember, these protests are also partly linked to the fact that they were ghettoized, they were not integrated into the environment. At that time, the issue of integration and control of immigrants, of German, also opened up to Germany, and there was a clear concern about what might happen if Germany did not do more to integrate immigrants into the environment. Therefore, I think that Slovenia, as a community of fewer speakers for immigration, is even more responsible for immigrants, to allow them to preserve their culture and at the same time what they do for integration. This is how I see this phenomenon, because in the resolution and the legal provisions we have a clearly defined obligation of the country to children who, due to their age, are also clearly obliged to go to school in Slovenia. If they are to fulfil this obligation, we must also train them in Slovenian. What I certainly wanted to point out in my previous debate is that it seems to me that we will never get along well if we understand bilingualism associated with the three official languages in Slovenia, that is, with Slovenian, as well as with the majority language, Italian and Hungarian in the linguistic mixed territory, we understand differently than we understand the right to use the language of other minority communities. In these minority communities, it is not visible bilingualism, but it is simply a matter of finding that while we have written in the Basic School Act that minorities can also be educated in their own language. Now I am talking about those minorities that are recorded in the Republic of Slovenia declaration on the situation of national communities, members of the peoples of the former SFRJ, but they have this option only in the context of elective subjects or supplementary teaching. In a globalized world, we can sometimes form a minority from one immigrant to another, who will feel this connection and want to exercise their linguistic rights. So I think this is a broader problem, and I wanted to open it just because I see, as Dr Göncz sees, that Western Europe has resolved the issues of linguistic equality and the right attitude towards minorities not always correct or appropriate, taking into account human rights and international acts. Remember France, where the majority language is very well protected, but minority languages — who speaks about it? And some other countries we could talk about. I think that this positive experience, with respect for minority languages, should ever be passed on to someone else and not to this condition that we have now preserved, but also to go in the direction of what Dr Göncz has been talking about, to check regularly how the provisions enshrined in the laws are also being implemented in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you, too. I'm also giving the word to Dr. Urosh Grill. A replica? Just a moment. Excuse me, Minister. Reploco wants Mr. Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Just so things are clear. I fully understand the matter as Mrs Potrate did, so there was no different understanding. I just wanted to point out that these things really need to be talked about openly and professionally. First of all, it was what I wanted to point out on the basis of your initial interpretation. There is no problem in this regard. What Mrs Novakova then referred to as a potential problem or a problem in this resolution, I take it as a strategy in this sense, as previously said, that it is being directed in this direction, and there is no way that this resolution gives concrete legal possibilities for what you have potentially mentioned that could happen. But as a resolution that must be directed towards a future and development, there is no doubt that there is such a possibility that, in the event of a professional decision and responsible factors, a serious situation may arise when something needs to be changed. That's how I understand the part that opened earlier. By the way, all other things are more or less mental between us and Mrs Potata. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you. And there's a replica of Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u212	Maybe it's not quite a replica, as someone has added to what I've said before, and I've been encouraged by a discussion by my colleague, Potter. Just that, language helps you feel and experience. Meaning, we can understand and our people or children who live here may not experience as much in Slovenian as they can in the language they speak at home. Because if he experiences and feels it and then learns the Slovenian language, so that he can experience and feel it, then he understands the life he lives here better. That's how he feels, and then there's less of this emotional emptiness. That is why it is so important that this language, and of course also Slovenian, is constantly evolving and complementary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you. First of all, I give the floor to Dr. Urosh Griltz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u214	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Perhaps just a few explanations and an attempt of one such slightly more accurate reading, what is envisaged in the resolution, and how the attitude towards the first mother tongue is also established in terms of comparability, conditionality in relation to the learning of Slovenian and also in view of the need for the environment itself to take such measures. In fact, the possibility of learning motherhood is also provided by bilateral contracts to some speakers of other language communities, which allows for the Basic School Act. We do know, however, that the implementation of this has been very unsystematised and has somehow been implemented in primary and secondary education only in the form of supplementary education. Here these languages are not defined as the first languages, but are treated as foreign languages. The source of the language policy proposed in this resolution builds on the need for all speakers whose first language is not Slovenian, in accordance with human rights, the principles of the European Union to preserve and restore, revitalize their own language and culture. This also takes into account the principles and rights for linguistic communities defined by the RS Declaration on the Situation of National Communities, Members of the Peoples of the former SFRJ and so on. However, the essence is, of course, in the following provision: "The Action Plan on Language Education should provide for measures which will systematically provide better opportunities for learning the first language also for other immigrants of the minority community in areas where such a need is detected either by the local community or by the state." And another very important definition: "This possibility should be systematically conditioned by parallel learning or completing the knowledge of Slovenian as a second and foreign language." And it is true, if I repeat the implementation of Mrs Potrate, that members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities have the right to equal public and private use of their language in the areas of the municipalities in which they live. The Slovenian language policy in this area is based on the assumption that a well-developed language capacity of the first language, which is not Slovenian for other minorities and immigrants, is one of the fundamental conditions for the development of linguistic capacity in Slovenian. In this way, I think the resolution is very calm and smartly proposing the development of language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you. And since there was still an interest in the debate, I invite you to apply for the floor. Mr. Dragan Bosic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. With regard to immigrants; immigrants in this integration mainly need a welcome. It's some kind of feedback. The first language, as the minister has just explained, helps to understand the second language, but what I'm trying to say is that here I see the problem in children, not in adults. If someone came for an economic reason, he'll be learning for integration, but in children I don't usually know cases where a five-year-old would say, "Okay, let's go parents, get in the car, go to Slovenia. It's nice there, and we'll just live there." But it's in a situation where they have some options, schools with a customized program or I don't know, we know in history what was going on, and then it's the possibility that they get their language, or else most of the time, if I use the term, they kept the cultural tradition at home. So I don't share your concern that the matter is a burden or a burden. One thing bothered me was the principles of colleague Göncz of America. I don't know – then you went on with this – who we're talking about in this case, because Americans are what they now call "national bourne," so we're talking about Indians. But this is about immigrants who are an indigenous community. I guess that's when I figured it out. What about them and their language? They're not even receiving these assimilations, they're not included in the melting pot, but they're marginalized, they're excluded. And when we talk about them and their language, remember that during World War II their language was very interesting. Navato was spoken in a language that the Japanese could not decipher in spite of their minds. But then they helped free their conquerors if I used that term. So much to compare you with some minorities and immigrants, and then America's integration, it's quite unusual for me. You could talk to the Australians about the same problem. If I go back to what my colleague pointed out. I think it's people's interest to get involved as soon as possible, because it's the root cause of living in a new environment, so I don't share your concerns. I think it's over, from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you, too. Replica, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u218	That's all I'd say, Mr. Bosnic. When we talk about America as a melting pot, because this is a common comparison, it is an official language for the United States of America alone. From this point of view. But the fact is, the Latin Americans have that the Italians have their own communities, I'm not going to list all the communities. And here's the sociological problem you're talking about, and I mentioned it about France and Germany. That is why I think that in the European Union this principle of multilingualism, multiculturalism, such a cultivated principle, a respected principle, and we are talking about 24 official languages, is very important. And at the moment, if you go to the website, there is now a call for translators and interpreters in the European Union to the Slovenian language and can be nominated by those who have the first language in Slovenia or who have so well mastered the Slovenian language that they can take over the function of interpreter. It is known what happens in the European Union with these things that sometimes there is an intermediate, portable media language if they do not have enough qualified translators to translate into Slovenian. That's what this is about. Whatever we look at at this level of officialism, there is also an official language in France, and this does not mean that people do not speak their language in their environment. There is always a question of the difference between public and private and we needlessly bring people into such a schizophrenic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mrs. Janji the Attack, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the first part, I focused primarily on Slovenian as a minority language, but I connected with it and, of course, thought about indigenous languages. This is said to be the national communities that live in the Slovenian area. Learning Slovenian for immigrants and minority communities, whose Slovenian language is not the first language or we allow them to learn their language, has been quite correct in Slovenia so far, and has also taken into account that the most important area for developing the language is also taking into account the Slovenian language. Indeed, the fact is that when we talk about another language as another language or other languages of minorities or of the Roma community, structural language produces formal models of natural human languages, which were once more linguistically related and are also related to each other, as they originate from the common Indo-European language, while Hungarian is one of the non-Indo-European languages, and this may also be an additional motivation for immigrants. This is certainly not of interest to foreigners or foreign linguists and celebrities, even when general theoretical knowledge or knowledge of a particular model is built on data from Slovenian or your indigenous language. We can also rely on social aspects or relationships and contacts with my mother tongue, but that I will not owe it here When it comes to ensuring conditions for effective linguistic and other social integration of speakers, we must also anticipate effects, including the development and implementation of language education policies that will also enhance behaviour about the characteristics of human cohesion or to what extent and to what extent people can vary depending on the environment. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I think that Mrs Ludmila Novak is now speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you. We certainly agree on many things. I also believe that integration is needed. So someone who comes, with all right, retains his language, which is also supported by Slovenia, but will be an equal member of society or more competitive in the labour market and in life when the language of the country, the nation in which he lives will also be as masterful as possible. When I visited Slovenians around the world in various countries, I was very pleased to see them retaining Slovenian, Slovenian culture, while also knowing the language of the country they live in, because they had fewer problems, they got better jobs, they made it easier to get into that country. That is why I think it is so important that we give immigrants an opportunity, help them learn our language, in the end it is also probably their desire and opportunity to improve their application here. We also know that children of immigrants who go to Slovenian schools then speak almost or exactly the same Slovenian language, better than parents, so I also support that parents have the opportunity to learn Slovenian, to help them improve their integration in this direction. However, where I have concerns, I may not have made it clear before that it would not be good for me to integrate, but if we were to create some communities where the Slovenian language would be another language, even though their mother tongue is one another, as the Germans have found it not good for them to have schools where only Turkish is spoken, because they did not integrate into the German cultural space and did not then speak German. In this sense, I have concerns – integration of course, preserving my language, but here we have to be careful.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u224	Quite a brief thought on what Mrs Novak has just said. I think the only problem is that we call mother tongues the first language and the second language the second language. I think that whoever has the mother tongue to use the word so now raised, the world, will always be the first language and will dream in it and have all his emotional support. This does not mean that he will not be equally good at speaking another language. What I think may have been a slight misunderstanding — just because the first language is so important, we must not close the door to a person whose Slovenian is only a second language to be trained to renew that first language. This alone seems to me that there may have been a slight misunderstanding here between us, but otherwise it is quite clear that it is necessary to integrate the language of the majority community if we are to integrate. However, it is understandable that those who do not have their mother tongue are kept in their home environment. What always puzzles me when I talk to people is an intolerance — I say an intolerance — I don’t want to define what level it is going to be — when people on the street hear non-Slovaks and are quite tolerant of these different languages they hear on the street. This is a question of another context and some of the possible primary fears or resentments that we have not yet been able to eliminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much, mag. Spending. Mr Mitja Merchol also took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Minister for Culture and his coworkers! Today there was much to be said about the American melting pot. I don't think it's that insignificant, because you don't want to be in some sort of melting pot right now, even though it's not in American. We are in the European Tail Pot. Although we have officially recognised European languages and are equivalent in this area, it seems to me that in some cases, if we go to Brussels and we are in Parliament, we have the right to speak in Slovenian and then we speak in English to everyone else in "grand square". I think that this resolution, and with all these proposed amendments, is precisely why I support it personally and also in Positive Slovenia, but I don't want to be too pessimistic, but more realistic – after all, if I'm a little personal, in America, the Spanish language really undermines more than it did 10, 15 years ago, and my cousin wrote the Arabic-English dictionary and so on. It seems to me that it is important to take this resolution primarily as a warning to us ourselves, a reminder that we do not become a linguistic minority, to be aware of how important it is to actually respect the language. For this reason, I would even say that it might be good to accept some sub-resolution also on the use and use of Slovenian language in the National Assembly, when I am most upset by expressions about the predecessors who speak before me, but in fact there are pronouns or pronouns, or we do not know the correct use when we refer to a fellow Member and we call her "you said" and so on. In short, it is also a Slovenian in this temple that we should respect and respect more than just a declaration and a resolution. After all, in this area Members and Members of Parliament should be an example to the Slovenian nation and should respect what Fran Levstik has long written: "Be hard, unforgivable, a man of steel, when defending honor and justice to the people and to his tongue." And it seems to me that we should be more careful in implementing or monitoring the resolution as to what the scientific research of the state of the language really is, which is also enshrined in the law on the public use of the Slovenian language itself. It seems to me that these, as I would say, have been warned in this resolution so much that these principles are not only the amicable principles of the resolution, but the daily rational warning to us how to treat our language, if we are to preserve it or to preserve ourselves. For the language, as my esteemed colleague Bosic would say, is food, but not only food as good, but also as a value. And it seems to me that this is precisely why this resolution requires a lot of attention to young people, not only higher education institutions, but especially primary schools, to see how this digital world actually affects the expression of young people who today, when they stand before me in line in trade, do not know how to say, "I would love it." They just show, "I'd like this." What about their language and what will happen to the Slovenian future if this language is not available? Therefore, I think it is right to take into account all possible comments and amendments that we have in relation to language as such and with minority languages and so on, but at the same time to realize that we can only be good if we are aware of the importance of the language that we use and which serves us in fact as the main value. That's it. I'm sorry to see you walk a little, Madam President, out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Mitya Mershol. Is there still a desire to discuss it? If it does not exist, then I conclude this part of the debate. We're moving to sub-chapter 2. 1. 5 and 2 sub-chapter. 1. 6 Since the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national groups to Chapter 2 is a national amendment. 1. 5 associated with the amendment of the same proposer under number 1 to Chapter 2. 1. Six, we'll discuss them together. So I'm putting sub-chapter 2 to the debate. 1. 5 and sub-chapter 2. 1. 6. and any amendments tabled to these two sub-chapters. So, the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian National Community Group to both the sub-chapters and the amendments of the Ambassadors' Groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS to Chapter 2. 1. 6. Does anyone want to discuss it? Opening login option. We have three panellists and debates reported. Mag. Maja Potrat, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u228	Thank you. We have already said a lot about the contents of these amendments, so I would only briefly mention what the amendment of the four coalition groups actually means. There is no great difference between what the Group of National Communities proposes and what we propose. However, the essential difference is only in the heading of the sub-chapter, where we follow what I said in the first debate, that we introduce a minority reminder for all the different constitutional categories of minority communities and add immigrants to these minorities. Otherwise, the management of these matters is as seen in the amendment of the Group of National Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Next up is Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The point has already been said. So it is also a matter of urgency that some formal shortcomings have taken place in the current stage of the adoption of the amendments, especially on the Committee on Culture and also on the Commission on National Communities, and that is why the text, which has already been substantively endorsed by the Committee on Culture, has now to be amended. In doing so, we have agreed, in agreement with the Chair of the Committee on Culture and with the Ministry, on a proper substantive basis, which is why our second amendment is indeed a formal one, because we need to accept it in order to implement the next amendment, which is now under 2.1.6; otherwise, as stated in the footnote, it would be irrelevant. In short, I can only add to the content so much that Mrs Potara has already stressed that the difference in the title of this substantive amendment is that it will be understandable to all, otherwise the text is completely identical to what the coalition proposes. Undoubtedly, we would be able to discuss this in a long and broad way, whether it is better to describe, with a common name, as Mrs Potrata has already explained, in the word of a minority, all of these communities, which we are then talking about, or to list them as we are. I will say this by saying that we would like, given the correctness of the text, to accept our amendment, because it also specifies all the communities we are talking about in the title, but if the text of the coalition is also accepted in the context of Mrs Potter's words, it will not be a big deal, as the content is identical. If I have been too complicated, I would point out once again that our first amendment, which is now under consideration, is necessary or we will have to confirm this amendment because otherwise it is a legal gap from the point of view of our next amendment. It is therefore important that this amendment be adopted on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Janja The Attack has also been reported for discussion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u232	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I will not discuss this amendment substantively, but I will only mention the third paragraph of the text that changes and reads: "The basic codification manual and Slovenian spelling in accordance with tradition, good practice, in the framework of my legal duties and in cooperation with all institutions in the field of language planning is confirmed by the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. On the basis of her legal duties, she also participates in the development of all other basic Slovenian language manuals with normative content." In fact, this institution was previously not mentioned, but we added it for a reason, especially because every change in the use of Slovenian language and basic content, i.e. dictionaries and manuals, is taken care of by those most traditional institutions and the biggest role in standardisation is carried by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and so will we care for the easier progress of language science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? More. I'll open the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two debates reported. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you're first reported, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. We have a very good strategy, we have a good education system, and we are always missing something, which we always find; education for patriotism. If we do not know why we must keep our tongue, we will also find it more difficult to keep it. And that is what we need to instill in our youth or do more right in the area of patriotism. We have an independent country because we have managed to preserve Slovenian language and Slovenian culture. We give little attention to recent Slovenian history in school, as well as various celebrations to strengthen patriotism. We find this over and over again, and therefore I think this is an extremely important emphasis, because the best strategies will not help us to keep our language unless we are aware of its importance and continue to use and maintain it through our young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. More mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u236	I agree with Mrs Novak that the activity is necessary, but you know, we often very much like to talk about what needs to be done to promote patriotism, and now I will only tell you some ugly facts with the resolution and the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. I will not go into how the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian came from two different perspectives on the position of Slovenian, and I have seen some of that in Mr Mershol. The solution is not only that Slovenia is an official language, but also how much is actually used. Look, we passed the law in 2004, at about the same time as now, in two years we should adopt the resolution, and after three years we have adopted it. One year late. Then we needed two years from the first resolution until the second resolution was adopted. Let's dig in people who have to follow up on the implementation of the law and the resolution, those who could also do something real, who have to connect all these different experts, but we are. On the one hand, it's full of emotions, but we'd do it all in such a way that nothing out of the pocket has to be given. I also agree that patriotism is an important category, and I have already said in some ways that the attitude towards language is also emotional in addition to this very pragmatic benefit that we have from language so that we can communicate with one another. When I read the resolution, it seems to me that the knowledge I have because of my diploma, but this sermon, which is so simple, is so important: "The central goal of Slovenian language policy is to create a community of independent speakers and speakers with developed linguistic ability in Slovenian..." And I'm going to stop at this comma because this connects that if in young people we are able to awaken the awareness that the Slovenian language system is highly developed is equivalent to any other system that allows me to express everything I feel and think, then we will do the most. Then people will also choose to use the Slovenian language, not because it forced them to do so, but because it will be their personal decision — commitment and belonging to that language. That is why this resolution is so important to me. The importance of this resolution is to highlight the knowledge of foreign languages! It also states: "... sufficient knowledge of other languages, with a high level of linguistic self-esteem and an appropriate level of readiness to accept linguistic and cultural diversity." If we do this, we will overcome a lot of pain and a lot of misunderstandings. We will also reduce the field of hate speech, what will happen, we will develop a zero degree of tolerance to any form of assessment of violence and similar things. So here I think this is such a very important question that it is worth mentioning. What I should say in this part, however, is that the amendment referred to by colleague Janja Nazast is, however, related to another content. This amendment, which you referred to, relates to the third paragraph of subsection 2.2.3. Standardisation is related to something that you have also proposed on the Committee and which has been adopted on the Committee. However, it is necessary to change this because in the dictatorship in which it was adopted on the committee, it would not have had coverage in the Law on the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. The resolution refers to the fact that only national authorities and certain holders of public powers are listed among language policy holders, not other public and private institutions, which also manage different language-planning tasks by means of their founding acts and work programmes. Well, if you remember, we have therefore attributed to these state bodies, in cooperation with the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, universities and other research institutions. Then we also discussed that some of the substantive tasks should be written down, which are necessary with normative issues and the standardisation of the Slovenian language, and that text was written somewhat differently than is now proposed in the amendment. This is a revised text with lawyers, at the Ministry of Culture, including in consultation with others, and I would remind you that now the basic codification manual and Slovenian spelling are in line with tradition, good practice and so on in the framework of legal duties and in cooperation with all institutions in the field of language planning under the responsibility of certifying the SAZU, because we know that the Slovenian spelling of the SAZU has been confirmed. In the same jurisdiction, some others are not, so you have the following: "On the basis of your legal duties also participate in the development of all other basic Slovenian language manuals with normative content." This is slightly different because you will agree that the SAZU cannot be the institution that confirms, for example, the scientific vocabulary of the Slovenian language. The scientific vocabulary is the result of scientific research by one scientist or some scientists, and this scientific dictionary, at least as far as I know – the last one created is Toporišičeva – has not received confirmation at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, but we all recognize the status of the scientific vocabulary because of the use of the scientific apparatus in its creation. Only this distinction is taken into account and the recommendation of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts has been taken into account. However, it seems to me that the profession, science and intelligence, wherever they are established, must be included in those manuals or in those things relating to the language description and language equipment of the Slovenian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Two other debates have been reported. I'll reopen the debate. A replica? Then go ahead. Replica first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Mrs Potrata, I said the same sermon: "On the basis of my legal duties, she also participates in the development of all other basic Slovenian language manuals with normative content." And I have stated that the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art has the greatest role to play in standardisation. But that's what I've been thinking about, most of all, is basic content, a dictionary with a normative content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the application. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two other panellists reported. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u240	Today I agree with Mrs Majda Potrata in many ways, it is clear that we are both from this area and we have much to say. In fact, you talked about how important it is to be aware of the value of our language and to use it. We know that in history, in the 16th century, when we received the complete translation of the Scriptures, we were, in Slovenian, among the most developed languages, for the translation of the Scriptures means that the language is very developed, and we were among the first. Centuries later we thought or thought that Slovenian was the language of farmers, and then Prešeren proved that the highest degree of poetry was to be written in Slovenian, and we became even prouder in it. And so went the development of the Slovenian language. What do I want to warn you about? However, we need to be very careful about using Slovenian at higher education level during the course of our studies. Although I support foreign language learning at the earliest stage, because I know that we need this, that it is essential that we have the knowledge of foreign languages, but we also need to know that the Slovenian language is such that we can use it at the highest level and we need to have expressions right at the highest level. In some countries, they have gone so far as to hold all the lectures in English, and they are already regretting it, some have also forgotten their language, such as the Irish, who are learning their language again, although it is the official language of the European Union, including Scotland and so on. In short, even at the highest scientific level, we must be careful that we can continue to believe and realize that in Slovenian it is possible to express ourselves at any level and that Slovenian is a completely equivalent language.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief. You have encouraged me with a slightly deeper approach to the interpretation of the amendments, so I would like to emphasise two things. You spoke to Mr Meršol, Mrs Novak and Mrs Potter about the promotion of language and the creation of a pleasant mile for the language to be loved and used. In doing so, I would like to point out that this is particularly important in multiethnic or multilingual circumstances, where we are already seeing problems if the interpretation of the history of culture, the language in the past may not have been what it should have been. We know that the 20th century from this point of view was quite varied. I don't want to get any deeper. However, I believe that today, in the 21st century, we are facing another challenge and here in such areas, we must particularly support the knowledge and knowledge of the language, culture, identity, ethnographic characteristics and all other values of all the people, because only then can an area that is historically conditioned by multinationalism add value to the wider community. This is recognised both in us and on the coast and in the Slovenian place. So this is a challenge in particular, and it gives some basis for this resolution, because we have also written the objectives specifically, the one that begins with the promotion of languages of the national communities, so that I will not mention them. This is particularly important for us to try to adapt regionally in the long term to certain different environmental challenges in our school systems, curricula and so on. What is needed in Celje, Maribor, in typical monolingual environments – now I am going not into a given history, but into the last decades. So where there's a one-language area now, this problem is irrelevant. However, where there is a multiethnic area, it is important that this approach to learning history, to learning culture, to interpret language and so on is slightly changed. I also see in the objectives of this resolution a medium-term, long-term shift in this direction, as this is important both from the point of view of the Slovenian language as well as from the point of view of the languages of indigenous national communities and of all others who wish to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Gönch. Are we exhausted? We're not exhausted yet. Even Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u244	I'm going to have my last show now. But you should tell me what's on my heart. When I first met with Dr Simona Bergoč on a second text of the resolution on language policy, she entrusted me with the concern of the experts who were preparing the resolution so that the resolution in the National Assembly could be broken by various additions. Well, we're not discussing that text. There's another text ahead of us now. We've done a lot of damage to her. I hope that we have not made the resolutions such that it is now unbalanced, but we have tried, in the interest of various groups, for example, speakers with special needs, to listen to those who do not share with us the world of hearing, as do those who do not share the visible world with us, that we have somehow balanced these needs so that they can enter into communication with us. And also this good agreement with representatives of the national communities of both indigenous communities in Slovenia, the Roma community and all other minorities, so that I hope that the resolution will have strong support for Parliament and a good traveller. However, what I want is that the measures enshrined in this resolution would also have a real justification in each budget so that, at the end of the resolution, they could see from the indicators that the resolution was a realistic document. This will be the most achieved and will be a good journey for the third resolution. To all of you who have participated in the fact that the text is as it is, I would like to thank you as Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you very much, mag. Majda Potter. Is there still a desire to discuss it? More. Mr. Bosic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u246	Actually, it's not a debate. It's a wish. Looks like we're on the verge of something right now, but I'd really like the Minister to bring the Brižin Monuments back to the NUK in the near future, because I think it was 2004 and it's about time. This is something that means a lot to all of us, we miss the Carolina Minuscule and the dumplings and things like that. And it's good, because of the kids, that they can come and look at one of those documents. Just a wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Dragan Bosic. Are we done with this part? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this part of the debate. We are moving on to subsection 2.2.3 of Standardisation. I am putting to the debate sub-chapter 2.2.3 Standardisation and the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS. Is there a desire to discuss it? There is. Anyone else? Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you. It's just a gesture. So, it is not our amendment, but, of course, we will support this amendment, and since the substantive discussion between us has been exhausted, I also thank you for the very concrete participation of all factors in this adoption or consideration, and let us hope that also in the adoption of the resolution on language policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Janja the Attack, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I was wrong to count this amendment earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Monday, 15 July 2013, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the choice of the audit firm for the audit of the accounting statements of the accounting court of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2011 and 2012. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Janez Rybic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u252	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament, who still insist! I will introduce to the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the audit firm to revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2012. The Law on the Court of Auditors in the second paragraph of Article 31 provides that the Staff of the National Assembly shall be responsible for the supervision of the budget and other public finances and shall propose to the National Assembly a decision on who shall revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors. On this basis, at its 23rd regular meeting, on 14 May 2013, the Commission adopted a decision authorising the Secretary-General to carry out all the necessary procedures under the Public Procurement Act to select an audit firm. The Secretary-General sent a letter to the Commission on 11 June 2013 sending tenders in respect of the invitation to tender for the follow-up procedure. The invitation to tender provided that the only criterion for selecting the most favourable tenderer was the lowest price. The opening minutes show that the most favourable offer is that sent by KPMG Slovenija d.o.o., 8 000 999, 66 euros. The other two bidders were ABC Audition of EUR 11 000 700 and Prosperus 13 thousand 194. All three companies are from Ljubljana. On the basis of this conclusion, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision to select KPMG Ljubljana for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2011 and 2012. According to the Commission, the procedure for selecting the auditor to revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors is very complicated and requires a lot of work in the National Assembly. Therefore, at its meeting on 14 May, the Commission also adopted the following decision: the Commission will forward to the Research Section a request for a comparative review of how the financial supervision of the Supreme Audit Institutions is exercised in other countries. On this basis, the expert service of the Commission will prepare a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Court of Auditors to simplify the way in which the financial operations of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia are controlled. The research department has already prepared a comparative review and the expert service will prepare by autumn a draft bill to amend this regulation. We anticipate that in the fall, a group of Members, members of the Commission, will also put this law into the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-12-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. There is a debate between Members and Members, but I have no Member or Member declared. I would therefore ask Mr Janez Ribič once again if he would like to add something in the debate. He doesn't want to. So I'm closing the debate. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be taken on Monday, 15 July 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 15 July 2013, at 10 a.m. I want a nice night together and a nice weekend. Good night!
