ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mrs Janja Navast, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mr Ivan Simčič, Dr László Göncz from 16:00 on and Mr Janez Ribič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 34. At the end of the day, this is the defense of the Interpellation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister for Finance of Dr. Coffers. The Interpellation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. In order to present the request of the Group of Members and Members, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, President of the Government, ministers, Minister of Finance Dr. Uroš Cuffer, all others present one nice greeting! Allow me, on behalf of the applicants, to give a brief explanation of the interpretation tabled. Members and Members of the Parliament of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group are on 1 October this year after they attended the plenary session of the National Assembly, which took place on Friday 20. 9. Rejected all the proposals that we have proposed with regard to the harmful approach of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, to the rescue of two private banks and, consequently, to the resolution of the bank credit crunch, and to the slow and inadequate rehabilitation of the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia, after all that has been proposed, rejected, submitted an interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, and based it on two basic reasons. The first proposal of the unlimited state guarantee for the controlled liquidation of the two private banks Probanka and Factor Bank, thus directly placing the burden of irresponsible and harmful clienteleistic management in these two private banks in the main direct and indirect ownership of the members of the Kučanov Forum 21 directly on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers, which means that the citizens will pay the loans they have leased through higher taxes and not return the bank takunas that come mainly from the left political province. Of course, none of them have been harmed by hair on their heads, just to be responsible for their actions or to be at the same time involved in deciding on the state’s coverage of their obligations, as far as these two private banks are concerned. 9. 2013, blocked their assets. As a result, all these guarantees and additional government debts mean more expensive loans not only for the country, but also more expensive loans for an economy that is already breathing on the gills, but also higher indebtedness of the country at extremely high rates of interest, thereby threatening our sovereignty and delaying the start of the rehabilitation of other banks or the start of the resolution of the banking system as a whole. No country, especially a country in recession and for which the recession is also announced for the coming year, can survive at such high interest rates as our government owes enormously in recent months, directly and firstly to the Minister responsible for the finances. Secondly, we have relied on this interpellation to violate the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in relation to the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which the Minister has committed in order to apply the substantive same burden-sharing approach to taxpayers' shoulders as it was used to cover the losses of two private banks, Factor and Probanke, also in the functioning of the Bank Claims Management Company, which is more known as a bad bank. One of the four non-executive directors from this so-called bad bank was unlawfully or illegally dismissed, solely because he publicly opposes the injury of Slovenian taxpayers. The resolution took place exactly one week after a negative decision was made on the state guarantee of €30 million for the guarantee of claims in two failed private banks. On the basis of Articles 113 and 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister Uroš Čufer swore, at the time of taking office, to respect the constitutional order, to act on his conscience and to work with all his power for the welfare of Slovenia. Does the minister still respect this oath today? We find that he is not, but he is acting contrary to her. In a good half year since his term of office, public debt has increased by over €4 billion, to over €23 billion. Remember, in the former bankrupt country, we had 20 billion euros in debt — not in euros, but in dollars — that means 15 times less than we have today in the Republic of Slovenia. In just six months, this debt increased by more than €4 billion. By comparison, in 2012 last year, when the situation was tightened, there was another government, an increase of EUR 600 million. Still much, but two and a half times less than that increase this year. All these decisions, of course, also affect our position in the international financial markets, for which, of course, the first Minister of Finance is responsible. The chart we have on the slide shows us how these gains on our ten-year bonds are moving. At the beginning, between 6, 5 and 7 percent of these profits, John Janša’s second government was appointed. Then the profits started to fall. Where to? Sometime until the summer months when all the then opposition, in particular and not in particular, the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats at the head of the current prime minister, who was then a very loud opposition member, Alenka Bratušek, moved away and did everything to prevent the implementation of the law on the so-called bad bank from being extended from the pre-summer time of the new year – you know that even the signatures for the referendum by these ambassadors and these then MPs, the current prime minister – who postponed the implementation of the law in the first days of this year have been filed. As a result, the profits increased again. After the situation calmed down, they started to fall, but the regrowth was achieved by so-called "viranation", with the collapse of the other Janša government and when the mandate came from the government of the current prime minister, and they grew until the last days. Despite these unfavourable trends, despite this unfavourable position, despite the opposition's desire to help stabilise the situation, in the spring we proposed some measures, which were then adopted in spite of the initial opposition – I am talking about the fiscal rule and so on – by the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, at the most unfavourable time. At the most unfavourable moment, a debt of two bonds, 5 and 10 years, amounting to 3 billion and half US dollars at an interest rate of 6%, took place during the first May holidays. An additional debt, as you know, took place the day before the adoption of the 2014 budget and the day before the vote of attorney to the government of Alenka Bratušek amounting to a billion and a half euros at an almost 5% interest rate or even higher rate, taking into account all other information that is not yet known to the public. The ECB's interest rate currently stands at 0.25%, so Slovenia could owe 5 times less by entering the European mechanism. However, Slovenia will have to take the measures it should take in any case, some are already taking, because otherwise it will not be able to repay its obligations. Only one billion additional debt means the difference in interest over a 10-year period of half a billion euros that would not have to be paid if the government and, above all, the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cuffer, acted in accordance with the oath and responsible to public finances, to the state, and in particular responsible to citizens and future generations. Its decisions are not favourable to the state and citizens, they are particularly beneficial for the owners and investors of two private banks, Factor and Probanks, which will be saved by taxpayers. They are also convenient for speculative capital, which lends us money at high interest rates. As we see from the recent activities of the minister, from the activities that took place last week, the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, intends to continue this policy. This is not least evident from the budget for next year. The total volume of new commitments and guarantees under all 13 paragraphs of Article 39 of the Budget Implementation Act amounts to EUR 12.3 billion. 12.3 billion euros! With only EUR 2 billion earmarked for the rehabilitation of banks in this law, which we hear will not be sufficient. Moreover, the Minister declares such a policy as a successful policy, but of course it does not tell who will pay for the drink or benefits of this so-called successful policy. After the adoption of the budget, after the budget or when you adopted it last week, the public debt will reach the almost annual level of what the state creates in one year, namely gross domestic product. Slovenia will spend almost a billion euros a year to pay off the interest alone. A billion euros just for interest! Five years ago, in 2008, the interest paid was around EUR 300 million. Such behaviour is, of course, totally unacceptable, since our country could have access to cheaper money so that its obligations to pay interest at annual level could be more than half lower. Thus, the greatest benefits, as I have said, are from the current policy of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Choufer, the banking and political tycoons, on the one hand, and the financial speculators on the other, because by borrowing money at an interest rate of 5% to 6% without any risk, they are undoubtedly creating extraordinary profits. This graph speaks of this movement of public debt, which, as you can see, will increase this coalition by 337% compared to 2008, in the period until the end of 2015, according to the adopted documents in the National Assembly, which were adopted by the Government of Alenka Bratušek. This burden could not be borne by the former country that printed the money, it is no longer possible to print the money, it is the burden of the country, unless appropriate measures are taken, and if this inadequate and harmful policy of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, who is the first to be responsible for public finances, is taking the country into an impossible situation. The price, the unnecessary price, because we have another scenario that could be used, will be paid by future generations. Despite these decisions, Slovenia has not yet begun the rehabilitation of the banking system. There are at least three major banks that are mainly or partly state-owned. The economy still has difficulty accessing fresh financial resources. These resources are significantly more expensive than they are for the economy in our competitive markets. However, the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, with the assistance of two private banks, is also not in line with European rules, as all deposits over EUR 100,000 have been secured, mainly by their owners, investors over EUR 100,000 and not by the banking system. So at this point, who is threatening the sovereignty of Slovenia? A European three or a domestic three or four who owes us enormously high interest rates? Respect for the constitutional order and functioning for the welfare of Slovenia is particularly expected from the Minister of Finance, who should be the chief custodian of public finances, a good master of our common assets, who was entrusted with management by appointment to the post of Minister. According to the motioners, the Minister acted in exactly the opposite way in the past. As I said, on the basis of his actions, everyone else, only public finances and citizens of this country, benefit. The commitment that was made this year during the May Day holidays will burden us for a very long time. On the other hand, during this same period, a few days after Dr. Uroš Cuffer, Minister of Finance, owed the citizens of this country three billion and a half dollars at a 6% interest rate, increased the country's deposits in these two private banks, i.e. a few days after we received the expensive money, he paid the money at a lower interest rate in two private banks, in Factor and Probanko, although he had both the data available to the audit institutes as Banka Slovenije on the situation in these two banks. To this day, the Minister has not answered the question why he did so. It certainly did not protect public finances, but it did less to ensure the stability of the banking system. Even today, we do not know why this rapid debt had to be made in the past week for a billion and a half with these three-year bonds, for which more than EUR 200 million would have to be paid, i.e. more than the annual impact of the property tax. We do not know how much the remaining profits in this debt amounted to, what was the value of the intermediaries' earnings, what was the interest rate of the investor, how much the discount was recognised in the case of EUR 6 million, what was the amount of the profits of the intermediary, and why Dr. Uroš Cufer, Minister of Finance, at the time of the spring debt or the first-ever discount of US$ 3.5 billion, was misleading the public that Slovenia had sufficient resources by April next year and that no additional debt would be required this year. Is this additional debt related to the resolution of these failed private banks? What's she going to do, exactly? All of these are questions that remain unanswered, as are the many clues that we have mentioned in the interpolation. The minister hasn't even responded to more than half the readings. However, he did not present any facts or compelling arguments for his claims. More on this in the debate after the Minister has given the answers to the interpretation. By the way, I don't know if you noticed, I didn't see it myself until yesterday, but Dr. Uroš Cuffer's reply begins on pages 7 - 6 as if there were no pages, although according to the contents, the beginning of the reply to page 7 and ends on page 16 with his signature. Apparently, the Minister's decision regarding the two private banks was not intended to begin the rehabilitation of the banking system, as it was two small, insignificant banks that had a very limited portfolio of investors, besides a political and related circle of owners, managers and supervisors. Therefore, their bankruptcy would not endanger anything and the deposits of natural persons would be protected up to EUR 100,000 in such a case. Moreover, we argue that the way in which it was taken further weakens people's confidence in the banking system and will in the long term cause damage to the other banks, as Dr Uroš Cufer, Minister of Finance, said that the approach to the rehabilitation of the other banks would not be the same as in the case of these two private banks. Rather than withdrawing state deposits from these two banks in May this year, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, Minister of Finance, increased them by more than EUR 100 million after the country was heavily indebted for an additional three billion and a half dollars. From €209 million, €400,000 in April to €318 million in May. So he acted contrary to the oath and allowed some to take additional advantage. With this move by the Minister of Finance, life has been artificially extended to two private banks, liquidity has improved, and depositors and borrowers were mostly natural and legal persons from a series of bank tycoons who have the support or ownership of the transition left, as we know more and more under the interest sphere of Kučan's Forum 21. Some of these private owners, e.g. Herman Rigelnik, have thus paid off several million dividends over the summer, rather than allowing these funds to recapitalise their imported private banks. Of course, they did not have to do this because Dr. Uroš Cuffer, Minister of Finance, took care of it with state money or with the money of citizens and citizens. When she was six. 9. The 2013 decision on the controlled liquidation of the two banks was, however, precisely these state deposits were the reason stated by the Minister for the decision on liquidation instead of bankruptcy, where the higher burden would fall on the owners of the failed banks and the depository with deposits of over 100,000. With the decision of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Čufer, and also with the decision of the Government of Alenka Bratušek and Banka Slovenije, the main burden will fall on taxpayers through higher taxes, which we will have to pay for the rehabilitation of private banks and, consequently, for the country's debt at extremely high rates. So what happened? With this assistance or with this intervention, when it is known that the banks are in fact only shells, the Minister with an additional state deposit has made it possible to continue to operate these banks, allowing owners and larger depositaries, which were, in any event, administrative, supervisory and proprietaryly linked, to draw on what was exhausted from these banks. However, the State or taxpayers will be left with a shell that will be repaired through a decision of €30 million worth a State guarantee. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, reasoned that when he did so, he had ensured the stability of the banking system. I mentioned earlier that this is not the case, the arguments are contrary. And the other thing that seems even more important to me is that this is the beginning of the bank recovery process. This claim was probably made by the international public, who probably bought this claim to some extent. In fact, from a distance, it seems like we've begun to recover something. None of this holds. The banking market is still rigid, access to credit is poor, the real rehabilitation of banks has not yet started. The graph you have here is that the annual growth of loans to all three sectors is still falling. We do know, however, that banks in the economy have a particular role and role because their lending activity is crucial to the functioning and development of the economy as a whole. However, this credit activity despite this intervention 6. 9. It is still falling, even after billions and 30 million Euros of accepted State guarantee, which is supposed to turn this graph in a different direction. We are still in a situation where banks are no longer able to grant loans or capital-intensive enterprises for normal business, nor for new eligible investments, as well as interest rates on loans granted by banks, are significantly higher than the euro area interest rates. Of course, since this is a linked circle, if a country owes expensive and costly access to financial resources, there is nothing else that can apply to its banking system. And that's also what the graph is talking about, which shows the interest rate on loans over a million euros, the bottom line is the average in the European Union, and the upward trend in our country. Therefore, the quality structure of the bank's credit portfolio is deteriorating, the deterioration of the bank's credit portfolio is mainly due to the poor economic situation reflected in the large number of corporate bankruptcys, the increased insolvency of both companies and individuals, and increased unemployment. Given that Slovenian banks also face limited refinancing in foreign financial markets, there is also a problem of effective liquidity management. In other words, ensuring the liquidity of banks is becoming increasingly difficult. And let's ask ourselves whether this intervention with two private banks carried out by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, and over a billion state guarantees has turned the trend in another direction. She didn't, she didn't turn him around, she further threatened the right to rescue a bank spasm and start a real bank recovery. In order to rehabilitate the banks, the previous government introduced a law on a bad bank that has not yet fully recovered. I said earlier what was happening by the then opposition of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, led by current Prime Minister Alenko Bratušek. As a result of this behaviour, a bad bank was established more than six months later, and as a result, all problems arise with the transfer of bad claims to it. However, the Minister of Finance did not give the biggest concern to the taxpayer’s money or to the resolution of this bank spasm, but he was most concerned about the rescue of two private banks. The situation in both banks deteriorated significantly in the late spring of this year, and despite the fact that this situation was known and bad, the country in these banks had a combined market share of around 4 %, charged as much as 17 % of all deposits earmarked to maintain the liquidity of the banking sector. The Minister should, at the latest, react, protect or withdraw deposits from these two banks and allow these two banks to be cleared through bankruptcy in order to be accountable to owners and all other members of the boards of supervisors, since this responsibility will now be covered up and hidden, and all those who have deposits of up to EUR 100,000 would be insured in this way and so on. The Minister acted irresponsibly, and it is not surprising that the President of the Coalition Party of Social Democrats, Dr. Igor Lukšić, made a statement on 9 September this year, three days after this decision was taken, which stated that Dr. Uroš Chufer is a weak member of the government of Alenka Bratušek. Of course, this statement is not to be understood in the sense that it does not have the support of the Prime Minister. It has, immeasurably, but in terms of endangering public finances. The decision on this liquidation of Factor and Probank was also made by this decision, which I have already discussed, on a guarantee of EUR 30 million for deposits and also for those deposits that exceed EUR 100 000, both for legal persons and for natural persons and for the bonds issued by both banks. Obviously, the efforts of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, in this case, have gone primarily to relieve financial institutions and wealthy individuals in the event of the rehabilitation of banks, irrespective of the fact that this is contrary to European guidelines, and the Minister has further burdened Slovenian taxpayers. Perhaps the answer is why such behaviours, why not protecting the public interest or the interest of public finances and protecting the interests of taxpayers or citizens and citizens, in the fact that the minister comes from one of the problem banks, from the largest state bank – Nova Ljubljanska Bank, where there are the worst claims. So in this bank, during the time he worked there alone, they were extremely mismanagement. Mrs Alenka Bratušek, Prime Minister, created many, many bad claims at the time she was sitting in the supervisory world. This is a bank that was politically recapitalised at the initiative of a party of Social Democrats during the government of Borut Pahor, by state companies. These state-owned companies, irrespective of the fact that they come from a significant profit-making activity, have quite a few difficulties in their business during this period, since these investments are now practically worthless and must manage all weaknesses in their balance sheets. Both energy companies and mail and so on. Some international people, as well as some domestics, are expected to need more than €7 billion and a half for the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia, which is not an excessive figure, given the fact that the government has estimated that only these two private banks, which controlled 4% of this portfolio, need a billion EUR 30 million. A billion 30 million euros only for those two, which were only 4%. It is said that, given the extent of everything that has happened in recent years, this figure is not even that high, but is enormously high in terms of taxpayers who will obviously have to cover it. It is true, however, that in these two private banks, the scope of these Taiwanese loans for various management holdings was enormous and that they were created solely for the purpose of carrying out these processes through behaviour, obviously pre-existing behaviour, that none of these credits would have to be repaid. However, this amount will not be less than EUR 4 billion. The Ministry of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, will also not be able to avoid expectations of the same approach to bank resolution and the same guarantee approach for deposits in these banks as was adopted by Factor and Probank, due to a reasonable expectation of equal treatment of all investors, including due to expectations of financial markets, international institutions and also due to expectations of the public, not least. It won't be possible to do that. Such an approach would require a country of EUR 14 billion to rehabilitate the remaining banking sector. So the decision on the controlled liquidation of two private banks in the way it was proposed and also carried out by the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer, also with this guarantee, made this decision wavering, but not reinforced the trust of the bank's committees, one of the key reasons both the minister and everyone else cited in favour of this decision, and the Minister not least cited it as an argument for the inclusion of the EUR 30 million State guarantee approach that was collected here. Disposal also means concealment of data. In addition to covering bank-political tycoons, the main purpose of the decision on the controlled liquidation of the Bank and Probank was to remain as hidden as possible on the actual reasons that led to the collapse of both banks. There is also no exercise of responsibility to the extent possible if the bank went bankrupt, for which they were mature in all the criteria, not the administrations, not the supervisory councils and all the others that led to this. The largest owner of the Bank was Herman Rigelnik, co-founder of Kučanov Forum 21, former LDS political party MP, who is almost no longer on the political scene, and former President of the National Assembly. The owners of Probank were, for example, so-called national interest, Perutnina Ptuj, Trimo Trebnje, Pivovarna Laško, Gorenje, the directors of these banks, members of the supervisory boards, the presidents of the administrations, and somehow the members of the administrations mixed in the various functions and chairs that controlled each other's relations, assigning themselves credits that they knew would not have to return and so on. Just a few weeks before this liquidation, 6. 9. 6.9m euros in dividends from Herman Rigelnik, owned by Factor Bank, were paid. It is said that only a few weeks earlier, 6.9 million is being poured out in the form of dividends from the company that owns this bank. If the Minister had not dedicated more than 100 million to the portfolio of these two banks in May to maintain artificially continuing their liquidity, this would not have happened. And if instead of what he did, he asked the owners to do so to provide additional employment opportunities for these two private banks instead of paying off the dividends. Around EUR 30 million were these dividends in this Protee, which is owned by Herman Rigelnik in the past period. Not to mention all the other awards that have been paid during this period for the presidents of the boards of directors, the supervisory boards. Over the last four years, there have been more than €700,000 of these awards and meetings. None of these will have to be returned, I'm sure none of them will ever be responsible for anything. By the way, I haven't looked online before, or some kind of film police action is already going on to blur this debate a little bit today in the National Assembly. If you remember, on September 20th, when we discussed the resolution of the banking system, they shut down Medja and Arhar, saying that the main criminals for what's going on in the banks are in a few hours, well, I don't know, in one 10, 20 hours. So I expect a film story like this to happen today, but these stories, I'm sorry, will not solve the problems this country is facing, and cannot relieve the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, in this area, because he is the first minister to be responsible for these exploits. In fact, by blocking both eyes in May this year and artificially allowing the extension of life to these two banks, he is also responsible for the passage of these EUR 6.9 million dividends to the private owner of Mr Rigelnik instead of going to this bank for its recapitalisation or for the provision of its liquid liquidity. Something like this has happened to everyone else. I don't have time to count all the cases. Years ago, the so-called takeover of Javor took place. Not everyone was allowed to come along, they were not allowed to be allowed to do so. Apparently, this Forum 21 network has been deciding who, where, what, under what conditions. And there was a Mr. Saša Remec who received EUR 4 million of credit from the Bank Factor for this acquisition. The company is failing. More than two thirds of the employees are in the employment agency, the company does not have access to financial resources. This gentleman has long been out of this ownership structure, but he has received EUR 4 million of credit. I want to know how many of these were returned to this Factor bank. On the other hand, if he had been allowed to take over this company, he would have allowed the company to continue to operate today, I am sure, and would have had more employees than it had had had had then three years ago. With the chosen way of rehabilitating these two banks, the cost of the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks will be much higher than the currently known volume of bad loans. In Slovenia, 56% of banks are domestically or state-owned, and in the same mode of recovery, this means another 14 billion euros in government guarantees. I mentioned earlier, what are the assessments of these bad loans? If the state had chosen such a route, it would have been its financial suicide, especially if we took into account the interest rate of 5 % to 6 %. Under its powers, the Minister of Finance Dr. Uroš Čufer is also responsible for such discriminatory treatment of Slovenian savers and savers. This, in our view, directly violates Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that we are all the same before the law. I mentioned earlier why we feel that way, and I also justified this argument. The decision to liquidate both banks resulted, for the first time, in the legally unjustified and privileged position of savers and savers of Factor Bank and Probank, which is contrary to the provision of Article 310(3) of the Banking Act, which provides that the role of an individual to the total amount of EUR 100 000 at the date of the start of the bankruptcy of the bank is not guaranteed, inter alia, by the shareholders of the bank who have a minimum of 5 % of the share of the bank's capital or voting rights. Secondly, the potential unequal treatment of all other savers and savers who, due to disproportionate guarantees for these two banks, are at risk that the state will not be able to guarantee them up to €100,000, despite a clear legal obligation. The Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, is also in breach of the European Union's guidelines, which require bank owners and depositors to bear the main burden of bank recovery, i.e. with over 100,000 euro in particular, and cannot bear the main burden of taxpayers, as in the case of Factor Bank and Probank. The European guidelines also go in the direction that, where this is not the case, state aid, as is the case with Factor Bank and Probank, is not allowed. In the case of Facto Bank and Probank, the main costs of the losses of both banks are borne by taxpayers. Consider, for example, Cyprus. In the case of a bank, the banks of Laiki, the depositors had to agree that 47% of their assets had turned over 100,000 euros into shares or equity of that bank. The adoption of measures concerning these banks is also clear why the transfer of bad claims to the so-called bad bank was not carried out by the end of June this year. Obviously, the European Commission does not trust the data sent to Brussels by the Slovenian authorities, which is why so-called stress tests are conducted in ten Slovenian banks and reviews their assets. Let me say again because this is gladly forgotten that the main burden of responsibility, although we have heard that the Minister has a limited responsibility here and that there is greater responsibility on the whole government and on the Bank of Slovenia, only on the Finance Minister Dr. Uros Chufer. The main responsibility lies with the fact that, as Minister of Finance, he was informed of the balance sheet data of both banks, which was already in April. We have the Probank audit report of 26 April 2013, which states that a recurring loss in business and a lack of equity raises considerable doubts about the bank's ability to continue as a functioning firm. A similar observation is made by PricewaterhouseCoopers in its 2012 annual report for Factor Bank. All these documents, as well as the analysis of Banka Slovenije, where the minister is a member of the world, spoke of the fact that these two banks do not have the opportunity to continue to operate and, instead of deciding to let them be rehabilitated first to owners and those who caused these works, but not to taxpayers, the minister prevented a likely bankruptcy scenario with more than a hundred million injections in the deposits of these two banks in May. On the subject of this issue, as already mentioned in the introduction, on 20 September this year an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was convened on our request and at this meeting all the proposed conclusions, all that we have proposed, were rejected. However, we have not proposed anything impossible or illegal, as some have suggested. We proposed that within eight days we receive a detailed report on Probank and Factor Bank on why these activities were adopted. We have also proposed that we obtain a list of all persons with deposits of more than EUR 100,000 and associated persons. We have also proposed that we should take measures without delay to allow that, if this has not already been done, 6. 9th this year, more coverage of those works that they caused, if I simplify, is said to be the owners of these two banks, former members of the administrations, supervisory boards, etc., and two other conclusions. None of these decisions would violate the principle of confidentiality of the data referred to by Minister Uroš Čufer, since there is an explicit legal basis in the applicable banking law for disclosure of these data. This is referred to in Article 228 in conjunction with Article 231 of the Banking Act, and I would read these provisions, but I am running out of time. Even such blocking of disclosures is not a good decision. It is not a good decision, for taxpayers need to know for whom and for what purposes their money will be spent. Money paid over ever-increasing taxes. In the last six months, practically all taxes have increased, which can still be increased. If it could be made up, this minister and this government would probably come up with another tax. This, of course, will consciously avoid determining the responsibility of those who have approved bad records and those who have taken advantage of these bad deeds. So much for the first point. The second point for which we propose the discharge of the Minister is the violation of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in relation to the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which the Minister has committed in order to take a substantive approach to shifting the burden on taxpayers' shoulders, as it was used to cover the losses of the Bank and Probanka, also in the functioning of the Bank's Claims Management Company, which continues to be a bad bank. One of the four non-executive directors was unlawfully or illegally dismissed from this bank for publicly objecting to the injury of Slovenian taxpayers. The government is on Friday, 13. 9. This year, at the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, in a written meeting without substantive justification, dismissed one of the four non-executive directors of the so-called bad bank, to perform a function which the Commission considers to be incompatible with the performance of a function in the so-called bad bank. This decision took place a good week after the decision of the Minister for Finance, Government and Banka Slovenije on the controlled liquidation of two private banks, which is the solved mag. Andrej Shircelj strongly opposed the public. It was a purely political solution. The opinions of the section on non-compatibility were not uniform; in such cases, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly and not the Commission to prevent corruption and not the Government's legal service. Even if the National Assembly had accepted an explanation that would have been in line with the findings made by the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer, the official should have been informed in writing of the circumstances that prevented both duties from being carried out and called for a decision. Only if there was no decision could a proposal be made for the discharge of one or the other functions or responsibilities. According to the time stamp, 6. 9. A decision on the guarantee of EUR 30 million has been taken, i.e. the transfer of these benefits in two private banks to the shoulders of taxpayers, and a week later this discharge has taken place, it is clear that the sole purpose of this resolution was to ensure that also the proposed finance minister, Dr. Uroš Cufer, was aware that there was no legal basis for this step and that this discharge was carried out only in order for the Ministry of Finance and the government of Alenka Bratušek to do what she wanted to do far from the eyes of the public. The entire conduct of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, speaks of his failure to respect the oath he made on his appointment as Minister of Finance. Instead of working with all its resources for the welfare of Slovenia, it works with all its strength for the interests of influential individuals, for the interests of those responsible for the huge holes in the banking system, on the one hand, and on the other, for the interests of speculative capital, since, with both past debts that occurred during its ministry, it is the same May for 3 billion and half US dollars at a 6% interest rate as the last billion and half Euros, which occurred in boyhood with the boy's investor in closed proceedings the day before the adoption of the 2014 budget, which, at the moment of purchase, has earned 6 million Euros, has endangered the long-term stability of public finances, and thereby has also compromised our sovereignty and, in particular, the future generations' future. At the same time, it is important to ask whether the threats to our sovereignty are those who offer us less than 1 % of the interest rate, which is only 4 billion credits, to the extent that the country's debt has increased in a good half year under the Ministry of Finance of Dr. Uroš Cufer, amounts to more than 150 million euro of savings at the annual level or almost as much as the government of Alenka Bratušek intends to collect through the property tax from the pockets of taxpayers, especially small ones, those who themselves have created what they have by denying themselves. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Čufer, adopts and supports measures that additionally burden taxpayers and taxpayers, proposes and adopts measures and decisions that are not in the interest of citizens, are not in the interest of this country, but of individual interest groups, and which weaken our sovereignty. All of these are actions that are far from the oath that the minister made when he was appointed to this position. The Minister of Finance is responsible for the conduct described, some of which are also illegal, and especially for the harm of the State and citizens, objectively and subjectively responsible. For these reasons, in our view, the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cuffer, has lost so much confidence in the public in the implementation of his policy and the way it is implemented that he is no longer able to hold the public responsible in a way that he is accepted by the public as a minister with high moral and ethical criteria. For the reasons I have stated, we propose that the State Assembly, after the conclusion of the discussion: Dr. Uroš Cuffer, be dismissed from the post of Minister of Finance, should be decided on the basis of two points of interpretation by the applicants on the basis of Article 118 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for explaining the interpolation. You received Dr. Uroš Cuffer's reply to the interpretation by letter of 30. Ten. 2013 I give the floor first to the President of the Magi Government. Alenki Brother. Just a minute. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, can I help you? Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I apologize for this unloving complication. In time, I raised my hand and warned. However, now that this debate is going on, the answer is whether these raids that are taking place in the HSE are related to the consideration of today's agenda item. Mr. Cernac announced in the introduction that he was expecting some resounding police action. As we can see, this is happening right now and I would like to know whether this is related to this item in the agenda. Here we have the Prime Minister, we have the Minister of State, and I'd like to ask for an explanation. Every such important thing, when it happens in the National Assembly, there is a police action that diverts attention. I suggest that the government's speakers make an appropriate agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u5	Mr Tanko, this procedural proposal, you know very well that there was no procedural proposal, a kind of question that has absolutely no connection with this item on the agenda. Excuse me? We all know what we have on the agenda, and you're also interpelling candidates, so I don't think there's any doubt about that. All I can find out is that you abused this instrument to talk about a topic that is not actually on the agenda of the National Assembly right now. I'm giving the word again to the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you. Dear Members, Members, ladies and gentlemen! From the first day my government took over its commitments, one of the key priorities of the exit from the current crisis was the return of confidence in Slovenia, its institutions and, last but not least, the banking system, both by the European Commission and other international institutions, and in particular financial markets. This calls for a return of confidence in Slovenia. An important part of this process is also the Minister, Dr. Chufer, who was entrusted to him one of the key, very stressful, difficult and even ungrateful tasks in the country. He does his work faithfully, honestly, and in caring for our country and its people. He is a credible minister, making a decision on the basis of arguments and giving a good basis for his decision. A key part of our exit from the crisis is the rehabilitation of banks and the strengthening of the stability of the banking system. But I think it's a good thing that you've already given us a chance to tell us again why we're actually there, why the banking system is in trouble. Weak, tycoon, worst loans were given in 2006 and 2007. At the time the government was not led by Alenka Bratusek, then the Minister of Finance was not Dr. Uroš Cuffer. The government was led by Janez Janša. The banks were run by the people you, your government, put there. And that's why, unfortunately, we have to deal with it today. I would much rather deal with other things, which is due to the stability of the banking system, and the stability of the state requires a solution. The stability of the banking system is a prerequisite for banks to be able to serve the economy again and so the so-called stress or burden tests are being carried out, so supervised termination of two seriously ill banks and therefore a bad bank. In the light of past experience, we want to carry out this process as professionally and transparently as possible. With the close cooperation of international institutions such as the European Central Bank and the European Commission, which gives us additional credibility, these are two of the institutions that you call for one aid to our country. It is therefore important that the procedures relating to the supervision and termination of Probank and Factor Bank are consistent with international practice and consistent with those European institutions. Not only harmonised, but even the consent of the European Commission had to be obtained before that. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, these are the institutions that you are calling for our help. It is said that we would do absolutely nothing different than we did because it was done in cooperation and with their consent. To the latter, it is both domestic and foreign public and financial markets and the institutions mentioned above, we have let ourselves know that with the rehabilitation of banks we are serious. I believe you know what it means if I can use the word collapse of the banking system, so you don't have to explain it in particular, panic over where all the money in the banks would go. Because we were aware that the stability of the banking system was most important, a decision was taken as it was. And I am sure that, at the moment, the best, supported by the consent of the European institutions, the institutions that you are calling for help in our country. The supervised termination of Probanka and Factor Banka was the right decision to help improve the sounder banking system in Slovenia. The second observation to Minister Chufer is the discharge of Mr Shirtzl. In the discharge of Mr Šircl from the position of the non-executive director of the Bank Management Company or, as we call it, the bad banks have taken into account the legal opinions of the Government's law enforcement service and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which, after examining the various legal bases of both of them, have found that Mr Širclja is subject to legal provisions on the non-compatibilities of the Member's function with the function of supervision in an economic society and, by the way, this applies to all Members and Members sitting in the National Assembly. However, the function of the non-executive director in this so-called bad bank undoubtedly means the exercise of a supervisory function in an economic company, since the non-executive directors of the board, under the statute of the management company or of the bad banks, exercise a supervisory function. So much for the publication of the illegality of Mr Shirtzl's discharge. However, with regard to Mr Shirtzl, I can say peacefully that he was not appointed as the non-executive director of this bad bank because of his alleged concern for the interests of Slovenian taxpayers and even less because of the possible control of the opposition over the operation of the so-called bad bank. Mr Šircelj was not a member of the opposition at the time of his appointment, Mr Šircelj was then Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance put him there in order to play an appropriate role in the management of the institution, which will have a key role and role in the rehabilitation of our banking sector. This will once again play a key role in economic recovery and fiscal consolidation. The opposition, however, exercises its role of control over certain forms of parliamentary control. The function of the non-executive director of a company or of a bad bank does not belong to it. Therefore, I find it quite distasteful that Mr Šircelj has been rounding up these functions even after he became an opposition Member and when his role was no longer a constructive integration of the Ministry of Finance and Bad Banks' work, quite the contrary: the use of this role to impede integration or the political weakening of the Ministry of Finance's role in this, for the country's key, process. Minister Cuffer reasoned with the government on his proposal for the resolution of Mr Shirtzl, and the government has accepted it. Minister Chufer is doing well, and I trust him completely. Let me remind you that the good and effective work of this government, in particular Minister Chufer, has also been highlighted by the European Commission in his assessments last week. Not only did the evaluation of the measures to address the excessive deficit find that, I quote: "Slovenia has taken effective action in 2013 and that it appears to be well on track to make the recommended structural improvements in 2014." In the context of the Alert Mechanism Report, she also stressed that, again, I quote: "... structural reforms relevant to the adjustment of macroeconomic imbalances have increased in recent months, with key progress being made in the banking sector." Last night, the OECD also warned of Slovenia's clear progress in fiscal consolidation. These encouraging assessments, which are also due to the constructive cooperation of most Members and Members, the social partners and, last but not least, of all citizens, are so much more valuable due to the fact that only Germany and Estonia have been better evaluated for next year's budgets among all of us in the euro area. This is an additional argument in the direction of restoring the trust of international institutions, the European Commission, the ECB, the International Monetary Fund, again the so-called troika, and ultimately the OECD, as shown by the decline in interest in recent days, including financial markets, confidence in our country also increases in financial markets. We are no longer in Cyprus, Greece, Portugal, but our society is France, the Netherlands, Germany and Estonia. Therefore, confidence in Slovenia is returning, which does not mean that our work is finished. The foundations on which we want to build are strengthened. We are aware that this progress must be felt as soon as possible by our economy and, of course, by people in everyday life. Ladies and gentlemen! The sovereignty of our country is what we work for. I promised to do everything we could to solve our problems on our own. We're not on the finish line yet, but we're on the right track. Those of you who are calling for help from abroad are obviously without knowledge or ideas. Yesterday there was foreign aid, and today it's supposed to be help and something good for our country. Who can understand that? In view of the above, I can underline that the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, enjoys my full trust. He's an excellent minister and the interpretation is completely unfounded. I believe you'll support him, not the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. In order to explain the written answer to the interpretation, I give the floor to Minister Uros Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u8	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President, Honourable President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers! Allow me to briefly present the answer to the interpretation of my work and responsibility as Minister of Finance. Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia were interpreted by 26 Members on 1 October, with the first-signed SDS Member Jožet Tank. I responded to all the evidence I recorded in my written reply on October 30th. In opening, I would like to clarify that I completely reject the interpretation findings as unfounded. I will also explain in detail the validity and legality of my actions in clear actions, taking into account the arguments I have already made in the written reply. With regard to the observations addressed to me regarding the State guarantee measures under the controlled termination procedure of Factor Bank and Probank, I would like to point out that the imposition of measures for these two banks has been adopted under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Together they were accepted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia. The Government has taken action on the basis of a proposal from the Inter-Resort Commission, in which both representatives of the Ministry and the Bank of Slovenia participate. The Interdepartmental Commission has drawn up its proposal on the basis of the Bank of Slovenia initiative to apply the measures made available by the Act. The decision therefore fully followed the procedure of the rules in force and confirms that my conduct and the conduct of the Ministry of Finance, which I manage, were perfectly legal. Furthermore, I would like to point out that all the measures taken have been justified and adopted in accordance with the applicable rules governing measures for the rehabilitation of banks. The State may issue a guarantee, as was given to the liabilities of both banks to the Bank of Slovenia for the use of a direct loan in the extreme event that the stability of the financial system would otherwise be compromised. In the above mentioned initiative, the Bank of Slovenia assessed that the banks met the conditions for issuing the guarantee. Their uncontrolled winding-up could result in the insolvency of both banks, most likely leading to the instability of the entire financial system in the final stage. Thus, the State would have more losses and costs than would have been incurred on the basis of the bankruptcy of both banks. This conclusion is already reached, given the high amount of guaranteed deposits that are in both banks, it is the amount of EUR 400 million that other banks would not be able to cover themselves in the current situation, for the amount of state deposits and deposits with the State of the related undertakings. An even greater financial impact would have indirect consequences. I'll talk about them later. With regard to the non-compliance or compliance of the measures implemented with the guidelines of the European Union, I would like to point out that the European Commission's amended State Aid rules have been followed. In accordance with the new rules of the European Union, Member States should even encourage the withdrawal of failed banks from the market by State aid measures approved by the European Commission. The State authorities must submit to the Commission a plan for the supervised winding-up of a credit institution which includes requirements for burden-sharing between shareholders and holders of subordinated debt instruments. In this way, State aid is limited to the minimum necessary and the necessary expenditure of the state budget is reduced. The European Commission also considers that the guarantee measure has been properly implemented, as the measure has been provisionally approved. Within the framework of the approval, it requested the Republic of Slovenia to forward within two months a liquidation plan for the Bank and Probank, which will be the basis for the final approval of the measures. The plan of the two banks was forwarded to the European Commission in early November and final approval of the guarantee and recapitalisation is expected in December. With regard to the apparent devastating public financial consequences for the country, the high burden on taxpayers and the allegedly financially unsustainable model of bank recovery, I would like to stress that the public financial consequences would be greater if the bankruptcy of two banks occurred. The above-mentioned outflow could lead to a systemic crisis and negative consequences for the entire financial system and, consequently, for the country. Due to the interconnectivity of both banks, bankruptcy would also infect other financial institutions and this would reduce the payment capacity and level of capital across the financial system. The bankruptcy of banks would also put an end to some critical functions, such as payment services, which would further burden the economy. The business of other banks could also be infected through the mistrust of savers, as savers would speed up their role. In the event that the two banks leave the bankruptcy procedure, this would mean that, without a reasonable reason, they would cause more money to flow from the Slovenian banks, more than we will need to carry out the urgent and supervised termination procedure. And this is also a stable practice that has been established in the European Union to close banks that cannot survive in the long term. In the context of the current sensitivity of the banking system, in which independent external checks and burden tests are carried out at the same time, any form of uncontrolled bankruptcy may lead to a domino effect with unfavourable and unpredictable consequences not for the financial system as a whole, but also for the entire economy as a whole, for unnecessary. In fact, the risks I mentioned earlier have proved to be neutralised by the implementation of the measures taken, as the problems of the Bank and Probank have not led to a greater outflow of deposits. In addition, supervisors estimate that the controlled liquidation of both banks did not jeopardise the stability of insurance companies, investment companies, mutual funds, mutual pension funds and pension companies, which would have occurred in the event of their bankruptcy. The effects on financial institutions were thus primarily limited to owners and holders of subordinated instruments by the measures taken. These will lose the entire assets held in these securities and in the shares of these two banks. Payment services are also running smoothly at the time of the adoption of the measures, and I therefore consider that the adoption of the measures has achieved its purpose. The government has not approved an unlimited guarantee, but has approved a guarantee of EUR 490 million for Probank and EUR 540 million for Factor Bank, and the cashing of the guarantees issued is not fully foreseen. The cost of a controlled termination before the possible payment of public funds will be borne first by the owners of banks, then by the holders of subordinated bonds and only in the end by the State. The amount of the State was estimated at EUR 400 million and should be spent on the recapitalisation of both banks. It is clear that the granting of an unlimited State guarantee in the process of a controlled winding-up of the two banks took place prior to the receipt of the results of the bank stress tests, I explain that the Bank of Slovenia estimated that this required the actual situation in both banks. Banks would not be able to implement all their obligations until these proposals have been completed, as assessed. Prior to this assessment, the baseline plan was to first strengthen the system banks to transfer their bad claims to the DUTB and recapitalise them and then approach measures related to smaller banks, thus reducing the systemic risk of financial instability significantly. In view of the course of events, however, we were forced to act as we were, it is said that we had to take action with regard to Probank and Factor Bank first and that, at the request of the European institutions, the above-mentioned external reviews of the quality of the assets of banks and the burden tests are still taking place. Only after they have concluded will it be possible to transfer bad claims to a bad bank and recapitalise these banks. I also cannot agree with the statements made by the interpolation investors that, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the problem of the resolution of both banks with the money of Slovenian citizens and citizens is being addressed by Members of Parliament by reference to the rules on data confidentiality. The Ministry of Finance does not have such data. Moreover, as the Bank of Slovenia has already explained several times, the disclosure of the data you requested would constitute a violation of the Banking Act. I reject the evidence because the Ministry cannot disclose the required data, which it does not have and which does not have any legal basis for collecting. I would like to respond further to the statement made by the interpolation investors regarding the discharge of the MEP. Mr Andrej Širclja, acting as non-executive director of the company for the management of bank claims. My initial explanation is that the Ministry is ahead of the government's decision on the resolution of mags. In order to clarify matters related to the existence of a conflict of interest, it has obtained an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on legislation and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. On the basis of a detailed examination of the rules in force and on the basis of the opinions obtained, the Ministry concluded that the functions of the Member of the National Assembly and of the non-executive Director of the DUTB Management Board were incompatible. The non-executive directors, in accordance with the DURB Statute, act as the Supervisory Committee, while the Law on Members provides that a Member shall not be a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Company, including DUTB. At this point, I would like to explain further the interpretation of the legislation in force, on the basis of which the Ministry of Finance has proposed to the Government the resolution of mags. Andrea Shirtzlj. ZUKSB, the real law on a bad bank under which a bad bank was established provides that the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption shall not apply to non-executive directors of the board of directors of a bad bank. The provisions of this Act on the non-compatibility of functions for Members do not, however, apply as the area of incompatibility of the function of a Member with other functions or activities is governed by a specific law. The Law on Members in Article 12, paragraph 2, provides that a Member shall not be a member of the supervisory authority of an economic company. While the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption has been applied under the provisions of its own Article 3 of the subsidiary nature and has only been applied in the public sector if the same law does not otherwise address the same issues. Since the irreconcilability of a Member's function by carrying out additional activities and membership in administrative bodies is governed by the Law on Members, the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in this Part shall not apply to Members. Since the Bad Bank Act did not exclude the application of the Law on Members and, on the other hand, the non-executive directors act as the Supervisory Board, the Ministry found, on the basis of the opinions obtained, that the functions of the Member and the member of the Management Board of the bad banks were incompatible. Mag. Andrej Šircelj and the Management Board were informed of the legal opinions obtained. Mag. I have also informed the general public that I intend to present to the Government a proposal for a decision inviting it to make its decision within a certain period, whether to act as a Member or as a non-Executive Director of the DUTB. After a discussion in the Government on the incompatibilities of the Member of the non-executive Director, the Government adopted a decision on the mag. The spread has been resolved from the functions of the non-executive director. We also took into account the fact that he had a mag. Andrej Shircelj has enough time available for his decision and that it did not take extra time to resolve the conflict of interest. On the basis of the said and written reply to the interpolation, in which I have also given more detailed explanations, I propose to the National Assembly that, after the discussion, it does not adopt the proposed decision on my discharge from the role of Finance Minister. I thank you for your attention, and I am also available to honourable Members and Members for further clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you, Minister, for explaining the written answer. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Please listen to the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Here you go, Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Mr. President, President of the Government, Minister's House! That we've had problems in the banking system for a long time, of course, it's no secret. It's not just us. In fact, we are no exception to this. But we are an exception to the determination and speed with which we are dealing with this problem. Instead of trying to solve it quickly and effectively, we first needed one government to overlook and delay the problem, then another, to make sure that, after a severe opposition, the first one somehow prepared the concept of resolution and started with legal changes, and now it's on the third government to somehow end it. In the summer 2013 the Government and Banka Slovenije reacted decisively and only correctly in the case of Factor Bank and Probank. If we go a little bit back in history. On 15 September 2008, Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy, which was the cause of the global economic crisis, was a market share of this insignificant bank even smaller and significantly less important for the US banking system than the share of Probanka and Factor Banka in Slovenia. In the United States of America, this problem was addressed immediately, and shortly thereafter it was clear that taxpayers would emerge from this story as winners. The state got back more than it had invested in bailing out the banks in the first place. And she invested huge amounts of taxpayer money in private banks. This in Slovenia due to slowness and late decisive action, unfortunately, cannot be expected. If the banks were then to be rehabilitated, they could be more easily recapitalized, and they could be sold more easily. Other countries that have not been covered by the banking crisis have taken immediate action, all of them in 2008, quickly, efficiently and quietly. Germany then initiated 10% of GDP in the banking system, public funds, and in a few weeks, Britain even 15% of GDP quickly and supported banks. In 2008, the Swiss Bank of UBS invests EUR 4.8 billion in new capital, EUR 50 billion in bad claims transfers and EUR 20 billion in recapitalisation with loans. The Republic of Slovenia has so far seen 2% of GDP in these years. The fact that the State guarantee has been granted for the controlled liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank is an obvious one mentioned by the proponents as the first. We believe in the Civil Gazette that this observation is not justified. The Bank of Slovenia, together with the Government, decided to cut through this Gordija knot of Slovenian banks. It is true that it is only the first node, given the size of the two banks that are being discussed today. But it took a decisive reaction, and we're happy that it came to her. Liquidation or bankruptcy. This is a question that will also be the subject of debate today. The liquidation is supposed to cost 400 million. A large part of this is due to property misdemeanours that are still loss of value due to the market situation. It is also clear to all of us that there are appropriate discounts for these kinds of sales, where you have to sell them. Furthermore, there are weaknesses in the transfer of credits to other banks, where a discount of some kind is also accounted for. At 2 billion balance sheet totals 400 million liquidation costs represent 20%. In the event of bankruptcy, it typically loses at least 75% of its value because it is much faster to liquidate assets, which is also reflected in the discounts themselves. Even the most successful projects of this kind have gone to at least 60% of the loss, which means that only 40% of the funds have been recovered, and in the most successful cases, not in the state that we have in the banking and real estate system today in Slovenia. In view of the fact that the wider sector of the country in both banks has made almost 700m euros of deposits, it is clear that the result would be for citizens and citizens, because the municipalities have quite a few funds deposited in both banks, and it is about the same as in the event of bankruptcy. That almost 700 million public money in these two banks requires an answer. The work was probably imposed on high interest and without taking into account the risks, and the part certainly comes from friendly ones, not to say friendly ties. Last but not least, the information that owners do not have a significant share of deposits is not surprising. You set up a bank to make a profit with other people's money, to make a profit with your money, you don't need a bank. The regularity of the decision of the Bank of Slovenia is also confirmed by the decision of the European Commission on the basis of the liquidation plan, which the extraordinary management had to prepare within 45 days. The extraordinary management of the banks is led by a foreigner, which still gives hope that this Gordija knot will finally begin to unravel without the interference of such and different companion networks, uncles and botts. The ease with which many offer bankruptcy as a rescue solution shows not only that it favours populism against serious consideration of concrete data, but a complete misunderstanding of the functioning of the banking system. Already the effect of the Cyprus story, where the roles of all were frozen for only one week and it was clear that small savers would lose nothing, and with the knowledge that Cyprus was a completely different story than Slovenia, the Slovenian banks went away for 500 million euro deposits. What would this mean for other banks in Slovenia if Slovenian newspapers were to publish in the cover: Slovenian banks in bankruptcy. Only a few extra withdrawals from the bank need to be made, and employers will pay their salaries in bonuses, pensions will be paid in vouchers because there will be no money to go around after the cash flow. Undoubtedly, the bankers on the other side of the border would be very, very happy. And here we cannot get rid of the feeling that those who elected the previous governor who were in the government coalition in 2007 have found it difficult to accept the fact that, at last, closets with skeletons and yes have begun to open now, we hope that the relevant lists will go to the appropriate institutes as soon as possible and that other institutions, including those with grids, will also be followed up by clearly untouchable and protected. The Hand of Justice is the path to the right titles, it is slow but thorough, it can be blind but well seen in the dark. This interpretation has been repeatedly requested by the proposers to withdraw bank secrecy from all banking transactions. The argument they repeat is that taxpayers must, however, know the names of those who robbed them. Such a request is clearly illegal and would demolish Slovenian banks. It is right that banking secrecy remains strong for politics and populism, while taxpayers know that banking secrecy does not apply to the police, to the prosecution, to the National Investigation Office, to the specialized state prosecutor's office, to the courts and to prisons and does not interfere with the fight against economic crime. Persecution authorities have been working better lately, legislation has been following the needs, the demands of citizens and citizens are justifiably high, the holy cows are no longer and we expect results. The results are already ahead. We expect convictions and confiscations of the property of those who have ravaged our banks, businesses and public finances. And finally, we're saving private banks. Are we really saving them? Disposal means termination, termination, not rescue. The liquidation means the owners will lose everything. However, not only owners, but also holders of certain subordinated securities that have consciously or unconsciously accepted the higher risks that such securities pose in return for the higher promised ones. Finally, it is obvious that radical measures, and the liquidation of the bank is a radical measure, that the competent authorities make it easier to decide if private banks are involved, and in the case of state-owned banks, they operate on recapitalisations all the time, with a solution that somehow does not appear to be the end, and not the costs that we impose on taxpayers. Here too, such acts must be cut off. But if we still understand in private banks that there was the greed of the owners who had made the project, how can we understand that we also had imported state banks? It is probably the same greed, but in this case still undefined actors with a background. Yes, unfortunately, there is still a situation ahead of us at the state banks. However, the behaviour of the Minister and, above all, the reaction of the Bank of Slovenia to the summer decisive intervention of the two banks gives confidence in the Slovenian banking system. The action was carried out with care, in cooperation with the EU institutions, and the information that was carefully selected did not come to the public at the time and, after the decision was taken, the responsible did not lock themselves in their offices, but kept in good and transparent communication with the public. The liquidation of these banks is to be understood as the first step to break this untransparent mix of policies and private interests, as a first step towards a normal banking system that will perform its primary function. By collecting deposits on the one hand and by lending businesses on the other hand, we cannot get rid of the feeling that the banking system has so far been subordinated to some other objectives, which has also been a major obstacle to normalisation, but, on the other hand, is visible primarily as opposed to privatisation. Privatisation is not the most important, but it is the lacuna paper that shows what interest prevails. Finally, this country cannot and must not afford the impression that the banking system is unable to manage and that bank deposits are at risk. And this is the story that the proponents are reading to the finance minister. It is clear that this part of the proposal is entirely unfounded for the Minister of Finance. Relieving mags. Mr Andre Shirtzl as the non-executive director of the DUTB. This is the second of the supposedly important arguments for today's interpolation. Although we have voted in favour of the resolution referred to in Article 8, paragraph 3, of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which expressly allows for the possibility that a professional official may also be a non-executive director of the Management Board of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, none of us has dared to think that any government would appoint a Member of the National Assembly to appoint a member of the National Assembly, thereby making a grave difference in the interests between the legislative and executive powers. It was a manifest violation of the Law on Members and Fundamental Rules of Integrity. And the only right thing to do is to close this breach of law in such a way as to resolve it. In this government, which did so, there were no more ministers of the Civil Gazette. And it is quite obvious that at that time, Janša’s government’s remains lost their compass completely in the workforce. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will not vote in favour of the discharge of Dr. Uroš Čufer as Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Until the controlled liquidation of two smaller Slovenian banks, the Slovenian People's Party has been identified several times. That the situation in both of them was catastrophic, some fairly well - informed experts have been alerting for several years. Just as it was pointed out that a comprehensive resolution of the banking system was needed, however, until last summer, when the bad bank project actually ran, nothing happened. That the decision on when a bank is mature for bankruptcy or liquidation must be matured primarily by the key supervisor of the system, i.e. Banka Slovenije, is probably more or less clear to everyone. We were never scared in the Slovenian People's Party, nor are we today, very public and critical to the Bank of Slovenia through the economic crisis led by Dr. Marko Kranjec. The following facts are indisputable if we do not now proceed to a judgment of value. Banka Slovenije's official position was that the major problems of the stability of the banking system are not that liquidity problems are not and are similar. Let me remind you. Even attempts to prepare a legislative basis for the stabilisation of the banking system were highly disfavored. Today we know that the bad bank project lives on. The current government has taken it down and continues it. In the short term, we can also expect the first transfer of claims. From this point of view of immediate active action, the support of the Slovenian People's Party is primarily to the new Governor, Dr. Jazbec. The liquidation decisions were certainly not easy, but they had to be made. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that the controlled liquidation is a better solution than an uncontrolled bankruptcy, but only on one condition: if the extraordinary administration set up by the Bank of Slovenia not only executes liquidation, it will also review the financial flows of both banks through available data and audits and also review transactions between connected persons. Both banks are characterised by intertwining roles, such as ownership, control and management functions and even the Bank’s main committees. To credit relatives, to credit connected companies, to devote a lot of money to managers' acquisitions of companies that were somehow related to the bank, that is, of course, no longer a secret. The task of the Bank of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, is to investigate all these matters accordingly. If the stability of the banking system has an advantage and tax assets are also used, citizens and citizens must clearly know who is responsible for such a situation. Unfortunately, we have recently missed the opportunity to amend the Banking Act in order to also introduce a provision that would eliminate banking secrecy in cases where public funds are needed for resolution. Of course, we listen to the answers that there is no practice anywhere to disclose certain information. Probably nowhere else do they have as specific a situation in banks as we do with many bad credits not created by bad business decisions, but simply because of irresponsible and speculative behaviour, with a clear purpose of illegal exploitation. How can we prevent this from happening again if more or less everything is swept under the carpet? In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that we are not yet able to assess the Ministry's work on the content resulting from the statements made by the interpellation investors. In a very short time, it will be demonstrated whether the decision to liquidate the two banks was optimal or not and whether the resolution process of the banking system was conducted in accordance with international standards. But today we are talking about the intervention of the Minister of Finance, and it is also right to talk about other measures falling under this heading, in addition to those in the field of banks. Slovenian State holding company, one of the most important projects of recent times, centralisation of the management of state property and preparation of a long-term state strategy. It all came to a standstill with the new government. In the interim period, the powers have been transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society, where, as usual, they are hidden from the public's eyes, they decide on the state's billions in one way or another. The summer farce around Luke Koper’s new husband is only one of the products of such practice. Although there is something going on around the Slovenian state holding company, the delay is such that the Minister in this area has not yet been able to obtain a positive assessment. At the end of May, after lengthy negotiations, we adopted a fiscal rule into the Constitution. In the Slovenian People's Party, we were pleased that he was also part of the current coalition, once a great opposer of this rule, only confirmed the matter. Within six months, a constitutional implementing law should be adopted. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not know what stage of preparation procedures this project is at. It is only clear that this deadline will not be adhered to in the government and that there is in fact no possibility that this will be accepted at least by the end of this year. Who will take responsibility for such a breach of covenants? Moreover, the consolidation of public finances is problematic. According to the assessment of the Slovenian People's Party, it is taking place too slowly. However, it is set to focus primarily on the new revenue budget. In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported a plan for consolidation of public finances, which provides for two-thirds of the expenditure and only one-third of the revenue. Increasing revenue is one of the important consolidation measures, but it is important to be very careful. Any additional burden on the active part of the economy leads to competitiveness problems. According to our assessment of such a maneuvering space to raise taxes for Slovenian companies, as well as for all other exporters, it has long been no longer. From this point of view, we welcome the increased efforts to reduce the grey economy. Everything else, raising tax burdens in the current recession is just a shot to the knee. In doing so, it should be stressed that the greater effort on the other hand, i.e. on the expenditure side, has not been detected. The government recognises the financial effects of the reform of the social legislation of Minister Svetlik in the Pahor government. The government also recognises the financial effects of the Public Finance Balance Act adopted last year. This government has also committed itself to the Stability Programme to implement the third round of austerity measures. So in these two-thirds on the expenditure side, the government is swimming with the feathers of other governments, raising taxes that it has managed to carry out itself, and it has never been too much art, let alone hard work. Where, then, is the reform on the expenditure side, Minister-respected, because all we see so far is new taxes and a new debt? And while we are already in debt, the trend of public debt increase has practically exploded in Slovenia. From 2008 to the following year, if we add up some of the obligations that await us, Slovenia will practically triple its public debt. The 2009-2011 project on lending of borrowed money to deposits and public spending failed because the crisis did not go away on its own. Although the Prime Minister has very much to say about the government before hers, and about the cheaper debt, all the facts speak very differently. In 2012, we committed to international markets only once, at a price almost identical to that of this year's debt in May 2013. The difference was only 0.05%. By entering the capital market again less than 6 months ago and borrowing an additional half-second billion in mysterious circumstances of closed public sales and at an interest rate that does not give rise to confidence for a three-year debt. In all of this, the following should be said. If the Ministry of Finance in the next two budgets had not slightly deferred interest payments to the future with certain financial instruments, Slovenia would have already paid a billion euros a year for interest on borrowed money alone in the following year. A billion Euros, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! At 7.8 billion budget revenues, how much longer will we be able to pay as much as a billion euros for interest? And unfortunately this number is growing unheard of. Therefore, according to the Slovenian People's Party's assessment, the debt should be carried out in a much more prudent manner and, above all, they should take more active action on the part of the reform processes both in society and in the economy, as it is only possible to convince the financial markets that they are lending them cheaper or more favourable. The honourable Minister, if I may shorten, is not benefiting from a charge of 4,84% for a three-year bond, and you know that very well. And last but not least, it's a new real estate tax. The budget is the new 200 million euro out of the pocket of the economy, from the pocket of all those who have managed to build something in their lives, to acquire something in the real estate sector. The reasons for our opposition and also the opposition of more than 75,000 signed under the "against" petition would not be repeated at this time. But I will point out where the responsibility of the Minister of Finance is. Inasmuch as the system regime which should be the retraining of the current compensation for building land has been misused for a new crisis measure or crisis tax, it is inappropriate and irresponsible. We all know that this law will trigger a lot of problems and cause a lot of injustices, as the basic conditions for its functioning, i.e. regulated records and appropriate evaluation, are not met. Notwithstanding the fact that the tax was accepted by the whole government and the entire coalition, this tax is still on the burdens of the Ministry of Finance. You have deliberately failed to make an effort to regulate this tax in a normal and gradual manner, all in return for the EUR 200 million you are expecting in 2014. On Friday, the government coalition also adopted the 2014 budget. It was assessed in Brussels as appropriate as it foresees a government deficit below 3% of GDP, i.e. in the context of budgetary adjustment efforts. But are you truly prepared with your name and with all responsibility to take this document to implement such a budget? We know that it lacks quite a few of the expenditure already foreseen, and we know that it has very optimistically planned certain revenues. Is there anyone else who can guarantee that we will not be working on the balance in the first half of next year? If I finish this slowly. We cannot challenge certain expertise and efforts to regulate public financial consolidation to the Minister of Finance, Mr Chufer. The fact is that its results reflect the work of the entire government, a government that, according to our assessment, did not understand the depth of the situation we were in. Much assistance from its ministerial colleagues, who would actively engage in the reform process itself and also in the process of rationalising the state apparatus as well as economic measures, is in vain. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been opposed to such an economic policy for some time now, if we simply call it a waiting policy for a better tomorrow, because unfortunately it does not stop the declining macroeconomic trends, but in particular by continuing the debt burden of future generations. Such an economic policy also differs considerably from the policy of the former government and from the policy led by the former finance minister from the current coalition partner of the National List, Dr. Šuštersič. As a whole, the government has not continued its active action in the area of public finances regulation and has clearly not continued the reform processes in Slovenia. For this reason, in the Slovenian People's Party we renounce the support of this government and, as a result, support for its financial minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government headed by Minister Cuffer, also to colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we were not as surprised as the Minister of Finance's interpretation, as we were surprised about some of the reasons for it. The proposaler points out in point 2 that Minister Chufer proposed the discharge of the non-executive director in the so-called bad bank mag. Andre Shirtzl for political reasons, not for incompetence. In our parliamentary group, however, we would expect the Minister to be intertwined if he did not respond to the morally questionable function of a Member and the role of the non-executive director of a bad bank at the same time. In our explanation, I'm going to take the matter from our point of view for a short time. I'm not going to talk about taxes, bad banks, debt and so on, because we're probably going to talk about it tomorrow morning in this room until we're sick. The fact is, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are not entirely satisfied with the work of the Minister of Finance. In fact, Dr. Cuffer repeatedly wanted to overcome much of the burden of resolving the crisis on pensioners. At the end of May, when the first talks and negotiations on the preparation of the budget were held, Minister Cuffer announced that all the other segments of the population had already contributed to the resolution of the crisis, only the pensioners had not yet. Of course, such a statement has aroused resentment not only in our parliamentary group but also in all pensioners who have yet to contribute to the resolution of this crisis. When we reflect on how they contributed to the growth and development of our society at a time when they were active, we cannot help but see that pensioners are always again every year and are limited by the coordination of pensions with every government. Every year we fight with them for the existence of that little recreational supplement, which means a lot to people. Most use it to buy chicken and food so I don't say winter, not holidays. And if this is not enough for the minister, let me remind him that pensioners also contribute informally to the resolution of the crisis, as most help their children, especially unemployed grandchildren, to make it easier for them to survive. And this is the last part of the contribution for which the Minister could be grateful to the pensioners, as a number of people, with the help of a socially weak member of the family, are burdened by the state budget. Today I read in one of the newspapers: The pensioners got everything when they don't give. That's a very interesting article. I'd have a hundred and one reason to deny it, but I'm not doing it here today. But I'll say this. Minister Cufer is also not very much aware of Kad and that Kad with his property ensures the safety of pensions. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware that the Minister wants to achieve greater centralisation, transparency and efficiency in the management of state property by means of the Slovenian State Holding Act, but there is a fear that this will be again at the expense of the pensioner. In the DeSUS Group, we will not agree to this and we will insist that when a legally independent person remains in the role of the Ombudsman, who is dedicated to the long-term stability of the pension fund, therefore intended to preserve this property and create additional value. All the arrangements so far have taken into account the purpose of establishing Kad, which was established on the basis of a general consensus, and thus maintained its independence. The narrowing of this state property in one place would result in the emergence of a singularity. Kad's assets would have disappeared. If this were to happen under his leadership as the most important ministry in the country, I should be responsible. We therefore expect the Minister to listen to us and find a solution that will be variable both for the ministry and for the pensioners. Let me also say that it has also disturbed us with Minister Chufer that, according to the statements made after the consultation with the President of the State in July this year, he is extremely inclined to privatise health and education and other services of the public sector. If Minister Chufer were to embark on reforms in this direction and thereby break the constitutional foundations of the social state, he deserves an interpretation. Perhaps we would have proposed it even in our parliamentary group, but it does not deserve it for the unfortunate statements. He deserves it even less because he reacted to the apparent conflict of interests and the incompatibility of functions. According to our assessment, interpellation against the Minister of Finance is irresponsible, irresponsible, because Slovenia will not benefit. I would understand if interpellation were made for any more serious reasons, for example because of an assessment of the budget's readiness for 2014 and 2015. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the Republic of Slovenia is still at the point where it is extremely important to maintain political stability due to Slovenia's credit ratings, and the Minister of Finance is certainly one of the most important figures in the government. According to the opinion of the DeSUS Group, Minister Cuffer is doing the best he can in this situation. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will not support the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Finance, Dr. Chufer, because we believe that the applicant has no legitimate grounds for interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u16	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we are dealing with interpolation against one of the rarest finance ministers. If the Minister of Finance is rarely spoken, otherwise there is nothing wrong with him, but if he is too rarely spoken, this can be worrying because the lack of information in the financial world creates uncertainty and discourages potential investors. So at least in New Slovenia we encourage the minister to sometimes say more and to give more information. However, when we speak and deal with the controlled liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank, we are firmly convinced by the Christian Democrats that there has been little clarification by the Minister and that it is therefore difficult for him to believe that the stability of the banking system requires more than one billion guarantees and a minimum of 400 million euros to end the two banks announced. Dear Minister, our decision today depends in some way on your eloquence and your answers, on your information. We are interested in many questions, some of them today in this position, and you will have the opportunity to answer them in concrete terms. I'm asking you whether it would not be normal for both banks, i.e. the Factor Bank and Probank, to first send a coerced board of directors and then decide whether both banks will become bankrupt or decide on a controlled liquidation. If the bank were to first send a compulsory administration to review the operation of both banks, it would probably be easier to determine which option is cheaper and better for the state of Slovenia. And if we did so, you might still be able to believe that you have decided on a controlled liquidation because it is cheaper and better for Slovenia. However, since you sent a coerced administration to both banks at the same time and have already announced that this will be a controlled liquidation, it brings us all together to know that you knew a great deal about the operation of these two banks. Since you knew a lot about the operation of banks, you probably also knew that these two banks were in trouble, that they were unsuitable capital and that they had owners who were not ready to rescue them. My next question, Mr. Secretary, is it normal for you to see a country depositing deposits in banks whose owners do not believe in the existence of these banks? Do you believe that the collapse of banks with a 4% stake could endanger the Slovenian banking system? You may still believe that these banks can significantly interfere with Slovenia's banking system and threaten all other banks if they do not know the following data, that 99.5% of the bank's members have deposits below 100 000. The Governor said that the average role of these committees is EUR 11 000, which means 99.5% of the commissioners represent around 35,000 commissioners and all of them have less than EUR 100,000, which is guaranteed by the state. On the other hand, you have 175 influential individuals and businesses representing 0.5% of all the commissioners who have more than 100,000 euros in these two banks. Dear Minister, do you not think that any panic in the Slovenian banking system would prevent a clear word if the public were told that 99.5% of the members of these two banks would do nothing to affect the possible bankruptcy and collapse of these two banks only 0.5% of the commissioners or 175 important people and businesses. In a way, Christian Democrats find it difficult to get rid of the feeling that 175 influential individuals and businesses are being rescued by this action. If I am even more precise and plastic, the state solution to this problem in Factor Bank and Probank would look like this: on the one hand, we have important influences in these two banks that are borrowing huge amounts of money, millions of sums by very favourable interest rates and very poor coverage, and on the other hand, we also have influential individuals who charge huge interest money in these two banks. And what happened? This group, which borrowed money, can no longer repay this money to the bank, and will receive this second group, which has a lot of money in these two banks, all paid back over 100,000 euros, enters this place and practically provides money to pay those on this side. Once again, we cannot get rid of the feeling that this is a solution to a narrow group of people. And that creates dissatisfaction, bad impressions, mistrust, and other things to say. Minister, don't you think that if the public didn't have what I've just told the public, you would also communicate and downplay all this information, if you firmly said that the state and your ministry would not cover such a risky way of doing business and that this is your contribution to greater transparency and the rehabilitation of the banking system, do you not think that this would be easier and better, and above all cheaper for the country to rehabilitate the banking system? Maybe there's just a conceptual question for the end. If we spend 400 million euros on 4% of the banking sector, what helps us to recover 4% of the banking sector, what helps us with the rehabilitated banking sector, and on the other hand if we destroy businesses and other entities that would take these credits from these banks and that capital at all. Do you have any idea what these 400 million euros we're going to use to rehabilitate the Factor Bank and Probank if we were going to use this money for espionage, for small businesses, what could these companies and these people make out of this money? I think it's a very big deal. So we're going to throw huge amounts of money into the rehabilitation of the banking system. We may even be able to repair the banking system, but on the other hand we will destroy a number of companies that could benefit from the services of this banking system. Therefore, for the end, Minister, please, I may also urge you to gather courage and not save all banks at all costs. Unfortunately, the time of crisis is such that some in this crisis will also fail. And that's right. But let us not use this crisis to solve everything at all costs and thus sink those who have at least little potential to get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloji Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u18	Dear Members and Members! I'm not talking about interpellation against banking and banks. I'm talking about interpellation against the minister. The proponent was talking about a horror movie. I'll borrow my own literature case. This interpellation even reminds me of Kafkov's famous novel Process, which begins with the phrase: "Someone had to tarnish Joseph K. Why? "Not to do anything bad, he was arrested one morning." Most of you know the story fast. The condemned Joseph K. does not know well, nor does he know that he is condemned, nor does he know the judgment, nor does he know the reason for it. According to his best efforts, Joseph K., who happens to be a bank official, a procurator, tries to get rid of the guilt, but it turns out that this is not possible because the fault is somehow a priority. Whoever's in the trial is undoubtedly guilty. Or if I paraphrase the person who is interpelled, he is undoubtedly guilty. The prison chaplain is confused with the plots of the rule of law, in which Joseph K. hopes that they cannot happen to him, interprets them with ease. "No," he says, "no, we can't take it all for granted. We just have to have this as an emergency." So the truth is in a different way. After several apparent breakdowns in the last decade, a key participant must be tempted by bad conscience. To ensure, therefore, the subsequent reputation lost among people, certain policies, certain doctrines and practices. The importance of this act goes beyond a lack of evidence. And we're back there. Nothing for evidence, I'd say a court servant in a trial. The evidence that the book on counterfeiters and critics has been increasingly defended by Grafton, shows that fiction, according to the applicant’s opening statement, and I can also say lies, is based on what was taken and intended at the moment of the decision. He's outdone everything. He's had enough. Good purpose for you, of course. So what kind of trial are we witnessing today? First, a few words about the concept itself. Today, in this mandate of the National Assembly, we will deal with another interpolation, i.e. another interpellation filed against the Prime Minister, as tabled by a qualified group of Members. Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that at least 10 Members may initiate interpretation in the National Assembly of the work of the Government or of the individual minister. If, after the discussion on the interpretation, the majority of Members express their distrust to the government or to the individual minister, the State Assembly shall dismiss the government or ministers. Interpellation is considered to be a special form of public issue brought up by a group of Members, followed by a debate and a vote on Parliament's position, the work of a government or a minister. The Constitution therefore guarantees a specific institution of parliamentary control over the functioning of an individual minister. With this institution, Parliament has an influence on the way in which the executive branch operates. The negative attitude towards the work of the government or the minister is most often a vote of non-trust. Interpellation is largely a powerful tool for the opposition to vote in parliament against the government being attacked, if we say so or by the minister. The interpolation of the opposition also makes it easier to verify the strength of government support and ministers in Parliament and thus the strength of the ruling coalition. It is therefore a generally established parliamentary institution, which serves as a mechanism of control and as a firm expression of democracy. We are also being visited by past parliamentary practice, which shows that the National Assembly has been set up since its establishment, and some of you have already been here since, dealt with as many as 26 interpretations or on average one per year. Although it is an established parliamentary institute, it is governed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which also stipulates that the interpretation of the work of a particular minister must clearly raise and explain the question which is the subject of interpretation, which may be questions of principle, whether political nature or the formulation and enforcement of policies, irregularities in the work of a minister, but often also in conflict with the intention and sometimes constitute abuse or, if you wish, ordinary politics. And today we're not far from that. So, basically. The questions or reasons of the opposition SDS party for the interpretation against Minister Cufer are wrong, unjustifiable and unfounded for Positive Slovenia. In spite of the fact that the SDS has invested most of all parliamentary political parties in its work so far in the National Assembly and has some kind of political experience, one of the worst prepared so far. They even missed the address of the interpolation, since the SDS interprets the Minister for Decisions, which are in the domain or are taken by the Bank of Slovenia and the Government, not by the Minister. The SDS should, for reasons, interpret the government, since Banka Slovenije, as a stand-alone and independent central bank, cannot, nevertheless, justify the behaviour of interpretation against the minister by virtue of the decision of Banka Slovenije, which together with the Government has taken measures to ensure financial and banking stability, and by the Government, which has sought to establish a legal situation in the Company for the Management of Bank Claims in the case of Mr Širclja. In addition, it is worth noting that the intervention against Minister Chufer is only a third interpretation against the Minister of Finance in Slovenia alone, twice experienced by Minister Gaspari. Interpellations against the Minister of Finance are extremely rare, as the Minister of Finance in the Government represents one of the principal or so-called national resources. Political theory is considered by the military, the police, foreign affairs and finance as a national resource. Therefore, the applicants are particularly expected to be well-founded and well-founded, which is simply not possible to say this for interpretation against Minister Chufer. The fact that the interpellation was wrong also shows the fact that the two remaining opposition parties did not join it, which in particular argued between the positions, that the Minister's proponents were interpreting it for the wrong reasons. The SDS of the Minister of Finance is intertwined by the Government's decision to establish a legal situation in the Bank's Claims Management Company in the case of Mr Shirtzl. For the Government has relieved Mr Širtzlj for reasons of incompatibilities of his position as non-executive director with the role of MP very simply. Both the government's legislative service and the anti-corruption commission agreed on this. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we are even of the opinion that the Government of Shirtzlja should also be dissolved for other reasons. Let me explain. As a Member and undisputed opposition policy, in the National Assembly, he opposed the way banks were rehabilitated proposed by the Bank of Slovenia and supported by the Government and, as a non-executive director, at the same time, as a government representative in charge of bank rehabilitation, he opposes as a Member. So it's a total classic conflict of interest. Otherwise, according to the assessment of Positive Slovenia, Mr Šircelj should have resigned for those reasons alone, but he had a different opinion. It was his right. In addition, the SDS of the Minister of Finance is intertwined by the Bank of Slovenia's initiative to apply two measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the State guarantee for drawing up a direct loan in extreme force with the Bank of Slovenia and the possibility of recapitalisation. In this case, it is also worth noting that the SDS is interpreting the Minister because of the decision of the Government and the actions of the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia’s banking system. As a supervisor, Banka Slovenija must act and its actions must be timely and appropriate. In doing so, it should be noted that the way and speed of the resolution of both banks, or the so-called "controlled cessation of business" procedure, was crucial at that time and in those situations. Loss of confidence in banks or the stability of the banking system could have unforeseeable consequences. The latter, both the Governor of Banka Slovenije and the Government, or the Minister of Finance, explained extensively and visually at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly requested by the SDS, which means that the discussion may be repeated in the interpretation of the interpretation, perhaps extended by the facts disclosed by the Diary of Dela and Dnevnik, which we have already used at the 65th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of 18. 9. 2013, so two months ago. At that time, the National Assembly fully rejected the SDS arguments for the extraordinary meeting and adopted the following conclusions. First time. The National Assembly took note of explanations from Banka Slovenije and explained to the Government on the application of the two measures, under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, namely the State guarantee for the obligations of the Bank and the obligations of the Probank and the possibilities for the recapitalisation of both banks, if necessary in order to ensure their solvency. Another time. The National Assembly notes that under Article 253 of the Bank of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia has applied an exceptional supervisory measure, namely the appointment of an extraordinary administration in both banks, which will start the controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probank, which will prevent difficult remedial consequences for the Slovenian banking and wider financial system. Third time. On the basis of an examination of the explanations of the Government and Banka Slovenije on the grounds for issuing the State guarantee for drawing up a direct loan in the extreme force, for the provision of liquidity, for the approval of the recapitalisation of banks and for the appointment of an emergency administration in Factor Banka and Probank, the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Banka Slovenije to report within three months to the National Assembly on all further measures to be taken to ensure the stability and confidence of the Slovenian banking system. So much for the conclusions of the National Assembly, which we have recently adopted. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we do not fully understand the intention of the applicants to have to deal with these clarifications once again when interpreting them, and we are asked why the applicants were not able to wait another month in connection with the third decision previously read so that the Government and Banka Slovenije will report to the National Assembly on all the follow-up measures they will take in order to ensure the stability and confidence of the Slovenian banking system. In doing so, we hope to make an assessment for the intervention against the Minister of Finance that the interpellationers were at least not responsible for its investment. If the ruling coalition did not hold extraordinary meetings to deal with the proposals of the state budgets and related documents and acts, interpretation would be dealt with at the time of the adoption of the said acts and would make their treatment even more difficult. However, the Minister of Finance, who, on behalf of the Government, normally participated in the examination of the budgetary documents, had to deal with unjustifiedly and unjustifiably and after our misinterpretation. In this respect, it is worth noting that, within eight months of operation, the Minister of Finance has substantially co-formed three key documents for the functioning of this country by the end of this mandate, namely the 2013 budget balance, the 2014 budget change and the 2015 budget. Let us add a series of new laws from its field, including from banking and tax, and an important decision to alienate the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, which touched 14 companies and one bank. The Minister of Finance has therefore co-formed and participated in the adoption of acts which the previous governments have been able to design, but not to adopt and implement. In addition, the interpolation applicants have also missed one of the main objectives of the interpolation in order to verify the strength of support for the government and ministers and thus the strength of the ruling coalition. The proposed interpretation will thus be considered at a time when the national assembly, at a marathon meeting with a large majority of the votes of Members or the votes of all coalition partners, voted in favour of the Government, a confidant linked to one of the basic acts of this government and this minister, to amend the state budget for 2014. Your Honor! I have already mentioned a decade of lost opportunities for good intentions policy. Professor Damjan has measured or measured the so-called good policy objective between 2008 and 2012, i.e. in the last five years. Measurements are the anxiety of every policy, including our politicians. This is what he writes after an extensive analysis of the high economic and social costs. I quote: "The crisis in Slovenia has already cost about 60% of gross domestic product or, in other words, almost €22 billion so far, has been taken away by Slovenia." Those of you who feel anything or feel responsible in any way, let us explain this number and once in sixteen hours I will try it. We're interpolating a minister who saves crater authors if I use the term of opposition policy in the last days. Don't you think Interpellants should be wearing other names? However, if we focus again on both main issues with interpolation and do not expand it, we want to resolve mags in Positive Slovenia. Mr Shirtzl, point out that the non-compatibility of functions is determined by the Law on Members. The Law on Members clearly provides that a Member shall not be a member of the Council of State at the same time, nor shall he perform any other function or work in the State authorities, in order not to act as mayor or mayor in the municipality, nor shall he acquire an activity which is legally incompatible with the exercise of a public function other than the so-called Petinian work and cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board of the Economic Society. Therefore, after all the restrictions imposed by the law following the interpretation of the SDS, if we understand it, the Member can practically be nothing more than a non-executive director of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In view of the fact that the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks has not excluded the application of the Law on Members, which states that Members must not exercise control functions in companies including the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the Government has found that the reason for the discharge referred to in the second indent of Article 8(8) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is given. Non-executive directors, in accordance with the statute of the Bank Management Company, and I hope that it is not disputed, act as a Supervisory Board, while the Law on Members provides that a Member may not be a member of the Supervisory Board of the Company, including the Company for Bank Claims Management. In this regard, the Commission, in its explanation of 19 August 2013, stated: "In view of the purpose pursued by the Institute of Incompatibilities of Functions, this is to ensure the independent fulfilment of constitutionally and legally defined functions, we believe that legislation governing this Institute should be interpreted restrictively and, in the case of any open issues, an interpretation or interpretation which is biased in favour of incompatibility should be adopted. In a specific case, it is clear from our non-binding assessment that the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks has not excluded the application of the Law on Members, and if the body responsible for interpreting and interpreting the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, this is the Ministry of Finance, which is argued to be that the non-executive directors of the Company for the performance of claims of banks perform the function of the Supervisory Board, cannot doubt that, subject to the second paragraph of Article 12 of the Law on Members of the function of Members of the Member and a member of the Management Board of the Banking Company, they are incompatible. We're moving to the banks. As regards the statement regarding the granting of the State guarantee in respect of the controlled termination of the Probank and Factor Bank, we would like to point out that in Europe, banks in all countries, including Germany, have had to recapitalise in the last five years. We also know that the recapitalisations of purely private banks have also been made with tax money. Why private banks? Simply because, in Slovenia, the majority shares of the country in systemic banks and major banks are substantially smaller or lower abroad. May I also point out that, in accordance with the new rules of the European Commission, which have already been cited several times today, on State aid, Member States should encourage the withdrawal of failed banks from the market. This means that when a bank or its owners are unable or unable to establish a long-term successful business, Member States must carry out the exit procedure. This procedure must be guided by maintaining the financial stability of the entire system. And who is responsible for this financial stability? The Bank of Slovenia is the one. And it weighed the decision whether to allow bankruptcy and thus cause great uncertainty throughout the financial system. Losses to be settled by Slovenian citizens as well. Only guaranteed deposits of up to EUR 100,000 would be paid. Economic private entities, including public entities, would be forced to wait for their funds to be recovered after the bankruptcy proceedings have been concluded. So we're talking about years. However, the Commissioners should settle their obligations immediately. This means that loans should be repaid immediately, regardless of the utility of those loans. On the other hand, the assessment of the decision on controlled liquidation, in which ordinary creditors would freely have their own resources, would have been safe, regardless of their size. Banks would be reimbursed on unaltered terms, and the state would guarantee this by issuing guarantees from the Republic of Slovenia for the obligation to draw on a direct loan in extreme force. Of course, bankruptcy would also put an end to activities such as payment services, which would be a fatal burden for the Slovenian economy. The infection would also cause savers to start raising their stakes in fear, which could lead to the collapse of the entire financial system. The introduction of bankruptcy would significantly increase the lack of confidence in Slovenian banks, and any problems in the payment of these funds, which are already created by, say, advertising procedures, would increase the lack of confidence in other Slovenian banks, including the uncontrolled outflow of deposits. That didn't happen. This is also the best answer for all those, and especially for those who called today's extraordinary meeting, why the Bank of Slovenia and the Government did not allow and decided to bankruptcy, why they did not allow the loss of additional jobs, why they did not allow the collapse of the banking system, why they did not allow pressure on public finances, i.e. on Slovenian taxpayers, on the payment of social aid and compensation for the unemployed. And I could count it. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore consider it sovereign that the Minister, with his reply to the interpolation, has satisfactorily explained the reasons for his actions and legality, in particular the legality of his conduct, and has rejected all unfounded allegations made by the proposers. On the basis of these conclusions in Positive Slovenia, we propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia not to adopt the proposed decision on discharge after the debate on interpretation. Let me quote at the end of the Nobel Prize winner, as opposed to a little bit of interpretation: "What hinders recovery is a lack of intellectual acuity and a common political will. Anyone who has at least a little influence, from professional economists and politicians to concerned citizens, must therefore do everything in his power to bridge this gap." We can certainly end the current crisis. We just have to fight for the necessary measures and we have to start now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! Let me say for the introduction that we have witnessed today a much stronger government delegation in the National Assembly than at the time of the adoption and consideration of the budget. The President of the Government, ten ministers, and a whole bunch of other officials came. And even now, when we deal with this interpolation, there is a stronger team present than when we were considering the budget. The only thing sitting here before was the secretary of state, and maybe someone else. Today, the crew is much stronger, as is seen in the weight of the government’s coming to the national assembly. But I'd like to respond here to a few sentences that the Prime Minister of the Government said when she was talking about when the main tycoon loans fell. She spoke as if loans had been given to the tycoons by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, she forgot to say that they were responsible for lending loans to banks, supervisors of banks, she was one of the supervisors, and of course Banka Slovenije or governors. Thus, if you want to locate the burden that has arisen in one historic period of the Republic of Slovenia, then this burden must be divided into real persons. These persons have names and surnames in the banking system and have been placed there to prepare bank policies, monitor bank policies and monitor the quality of bank work. At the time when the supervisor at the New Bank of Credit Maribor was the President of the Government, many bad loans were granted. Investments in Croatia that have never been made are also subject to a wide range of criminal proceedings. Now this same Prime Minister, who, by the way, has already left, I ask whether loans are shared in her mandate in this way. Is it a policy of the current government to approve loans in an inappropriate way? From her discussion at the interpolation, you can understand that. However, I know that the Government is responsible for the implementation of the budget, the preparation and implementation of the budget. We cannot go beyond the fact that, for the first time in this government, the Minister has granted himself a loan. And the Minister of Finance is the one or someone who will sign off on his behalf on the realisation of this loan. In this way, in history in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has never managed a state budget and has never operated in such a way that we have a state budget so that the main power supplies from the state budget are, in fact, reserious ministers who issue such an invitation to tender and wind up a colleague from the same party in the same government, Alenka Bratušek. That's controversial. Hearings on one of the web portals have also been published since we filed the interpolation. It was made clear that Minister Chufer was involved in the sale of one of the important Slovenian companies. It's Mercator. And this shows how things have been worked out and how they work in this government. We have tabled the interpretation on October 2nd, and the key reason for the interpretation, in our opinion, is the wrong approach and consequently the wrong actions of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, to address the consequences of the two Taiwanese banks, the Bank and Probank, from which everything that has been given has been exhausted. What is left of them is said to be two shells, even egg shells, if you like, and the government of Alenka Bratušek has filled out, at the proposal of the interpelled minister with more than a billion guarantees, from which the government of Alenka Bratušek will initially dry up about or at least EUR 400 million. Let's remind ourselves that the bank and Probank robberies together are at least 15 times the size of the robbery that was carried out at the Bank of SKB. There are some differences between these two robberies, but in the case of a robbery in the SKB, while the perpetrators have long been unknown, they are now exposed and investigative and criminal proceedings are ongoing. The burdens that were borne by the SKB. In the case of the Bank Factor, it is said, if I say otherwise, that the signatories, i.e. those who approved, and those who received, are already known at the beginning, but none of them are in the investigation process, and the payer of the consequences of their actions is, or will be, the State budget or, as a result, the taxpayers, as proposed by Minister Chufer. In the case of these two banks, although it is all very clear, no proceedings are ongoing and no confiscation or collateral orders are issued in these two banks. And in a mockery of everything, there was also a Minister of the Interior, who, by function, directs the work of the police and, as of today, when we have an interpretation discussion on the responsibility of the minister, is a targeted investigation into companies around the Slovenian State Holding. In fact, it's only to kind of mortify the effect of this interpolation. We know that the minister had two bad solutions: bankruptcy or liquidation. However, there is no argument in the Minister's decision, which of these two decisions is less bad. We believe that bankruptcy is more appropriate and a more favourable solution than liquidation, and the Minister has decided on a controlled liquidation without presenting a single comparison of both options. The National Assembly did not receive such a document, although we expected and requested it in the treatment of the situation in the banking system. Also on 20 September this year, when we discussed this process of liquidation of these two Taiwanese banks and we had an extraordinary meeting, we were not from two doctors, nor from the Governor of Banka Slovenije, nor from the Minister of Finance, given any calculation of what was more appropriate and favourable for Slovenia, even though they had been available for 14 days. No tables, no diagram, no numerical explanation or calculation. The minister replied very little or almost nothing. Since we have not received these arguments so far, we can be sure that bankruptcy is a better solution. If bankruptcy had not been a better solution, the Minister would certainly have argued this with evidence at least in his response to the interpolation. But not the governor, not the minister so far at these meetings in the National Assembly, spoke neither honestly nor openly. They've been covering up and covering up important information about the situation in these two banks, and we're assuming that even in the banking system at all, so neither one of them deserves to be trusted. Even in the Minister's reply to the interpretation there is nothing substantive, there is no accounting justification, and he had an additional 30 days at his disposal as well as the government. The Minister, however, contends that the proposal for supervised liquidation was submitted to him by the Interdepartmental Group referred to in Article 20 of the Act on Measures for the Stability of Banks established by the Government. However, this eight-member group consists of three members proposed by the Bank of Slovenia and five proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, one of which is one of the cabinets of the President of the Government, one of the Ministry of Economy and three proposed by the Minister of Finance. One of those proposed by the Minister of Finance also leads this group and has a decisive voice in it, which in fact means that the Government in this committee has a strong majority and that, given the composition and impact of the decisions taken on the way in which these two banks are rescued or how these two banks are resolved, a political decision was not an expert decision. In our view, why is bankruptcy more appropriate than controlled liquidation? In bankruptcy, it is relatively simple and quick to determine claims and liabilities, to determine the balance, to determine the burden and to find out a number of other things. However, in the case of controlled liquidation, this procedure may take a very long time. Due to the ongoing operation of the liabilities and claims, there are a lot of possibilities for concealment, recapitalisation, reallocation, machination and so on. Both the situation and the responsibility are difficult to clear. In fact, non-renewal of relationships, that is, concealment, is the fundamental purpose of controlled liquidation. In the case of controlled liquidation, new depths that will be identified in the process may be added to the process, new depths may be created as a result of the continuation of the business of excellence, and money may continue to flow, which will be followed by new State guarantees and new obligations of taxpayers. Nothing is final in the controlled liquidation, except that the entire process will be supervised by Forum 21 and former owners of the related person. To date, the minister has not explained why, although he received reports from audit houses in April this year, which have been talking about the long-standing desperate situation in Factor Bank and Probank, he did not insure state deposits or even withdraw them from both banks. He did not explain why in these two private banks he had almost five times as much money as the market share of both banks, making the loss of the state disproportionately high, that is to say, about five times too high. Instead of losing €60 million or €80 million, if the country had a proportional 4% of its deposits in these two banks, it will have at least 300 or 400. Every loss is painful, and it's too great at all. Why didn't the minister transfer these deposits to state banks for security reasons? There was no answer to that question, and we'll probably have a hard time meeting him. By the way, the immediate loss of state money will be at least as much as the estimated revenue of the State from the property tax. This bank hole will completely suck it up and the rest of the drain will continue to continue the controlled liquidation. Interestingly, the situation of deposits in these two banks in September this year was 100 million higher than in December last year, which means that the minister, although he knew the situation in the reports, deliberately deposited money in both bank holes. His responsibility cannot be avoided by the Minister. It is also unclear how many deposits were earmarked for the operation of the Bank's Factor and Probanks by other state banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor and Abanka. This is not discussed and this information is not wanted to be disclosed. They'd say a lot of things. If these three of our biggest system banks had deposits in these two tycoon banks, the problem is even greater, and the minister's responsibility is even greater. To date, the minister has not explained why only these two banks will be reimbursed over 100 000 euros and all others in all other banks will receive only up to 100,000 euros. Instead of using that part of the deposit that exceeds EUR 100,000 to pay off the liabilities of the banks or to spend them on converting them into equity shares of the two banks, the latter will receive a fully paid deposit in an important part of public funds. So high deposits in banks don't have anyone. There is a small proportion of those with such high amounts, which means that even those who are recipients of social security allowances or other vulnerable groups will provide payment through the budget to the rich. The Minister's decision has created a new caste of privileged persons, who will be paid in full by already well paid applications, while coming before the National Assembly with ever-new proposals for restrictions on social assistance, reducing social benefits, increasing taxes or introducing new taxes. For the weak, there are no discounts or understanding – if they do not pay, the country will sit on their property. In this case, although there is a legal possibility, that is not the case. Why is it that only the savers of the Bank and Probank are granted such grace and privileges? Why will savers in the event of a similar financial accident of other banks, such as the New Ljubljana Bank or the New Maribor Credit Bank, be in a subordinate position? Are we not all in the same position before laws and constitutions? The country probably won't have any more money for this kind of equality. Only a few weeks before the liquidation, when all data on the bad state of the banks were known, the owners of the Factor Bank paid dividends of almost EUR 7 million. Together until this year, nearly 30 million euros have been paid, despite the long-lasting serious illness of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia did not respond, nor did the Minister in this last case, nor did he insure the deposits. Investors in both banks also received above-average interest. And by this way, both banks were actually kind of pyramid schemes. Why did the Minister and Government not intervene if they knew the situation and if two people who are not ignorant of banking are the first to be the head of the most important executive functions in the history of Slovenia? It is the President of the Government, who was the supervisor at the New Credit Bank Maribor, and it is the Minister of Finance, who worked in the Bank of Slovenia's analytical service, and last but not least he was the Director of the Financial Management Centre of the New Ljubljana Bank. How is it possible that this has slipped out on two such skilled subjects? However, damage is being done in public finances, which will be burdened by more than a billion guarantees and the actual outflow will be hundreds of millions of euros. As unwise as in these two banks are the handling of current budgetary operations and indebtedness. Both spring debt and Friday’s debt were carried out prematurely and at high prices. For the last one, we will pay 20% more than neighbouring Croatia for the same length of credit. In just a few months, this government has committed almost EUR 5 billion. So far, the worst government, Pahoreva, owes EUR 8 billion in three years, which means that this government, in which Mr Cife is Finance Minister, owes itself three times faster than Pahor's government owed. And that says a lot about the quality of the work of Minister Cuffer and his president. The administration of this government is, therefore, neither rational nor prudent. For all, we pay the highest possible daily price, we pay much more than many African countries, even though we have the possibility of accessing a significantly cheaper source, to money from the European aid mechanism, but the government of Alenka Bratusek does not want it, because it would otherwise have to adopt some rules and commitments that prevent waste. The most important thing for this government, and also for the Minister of Finance, is that no one is hindering it from spending and that it has no unpleasant control. A while ago, the president of the Social Democrats said that Minister Cufer was a weak member of this government. We don't agree with him many times, but in this case we do. Minister Cuffer is very weak, the weakest member of this government and with poor running work this belief only strengthens this conviction. Banka Faktor Banka and Probanka were excluded from stress tests. If I express myself more in terms of sports, they will not cooperate, which means that their business is not subject to a serious review and serious action and that the operations of these two banks will take place in the future in parallel with other banks. This is already a reason enough to suspect that the Minister is concealing the situation and facts not only from citizens, but also from foreign institutions. It's all set so the government will always touch fresh money in these two banks. This money will continue to flow through the established channels of these two banks to friends of Factor Bank and Probank and perhaps others. Finally, preventing the disclosure of those who, by a decision of the Minister or the Government with a national budget, will be paid in excess of EUR 100,000, although in cases of liquidation or bankruptcy, this disclosure allows even the Bank Act to show the actual objectives of the Minister, the Government and the Coalition. Nor has the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party been adopted to freeze both banks' deposits to owners, administrations and supervisors and related persons and to fully target them for the rehabilitation of both banks. The Minister did not listen here, but a few days later, by amending the same banking law, he proposed depriving the owners of subordinate bonds that had absolutely nothing to do with the operation of any bank. Those who have otherwise participated in the demolition of the two tycoon banks shall be protected by the Minister on all scales, but for those who have nothing to do with the banks, except that they have been lured into buying back financial instruments, shall propose decommissioning. It's supposed to be just wrong. We should dispel those who, with a bad job or even a crime, caused the collapse of banks, not those who trusted banks. The concealment of data from both tycoon banks in the liquidation before the public is unacceptable. Although the Factor Bank and Probank actors are known, they all have names and surnames, they all received salaries and awards, they all sunned in a series of headlights, and at the time of the greatest loss just before the liquidation they distributed dividends and high prizes, and even though they made bad bad decisions, they are untouchable for this government. We are very likely to suspect that illegal acts, illegal decisions, are also in the back. Persons who have translated high-interest deposits and who have granted favourable, poorly secured or even unsecured loans are known, and are also known to receive these loans that are poorly returned. Thus, well-paid managers and supervisors who have implemented the policy of these banks, which has led to the collapse of banks, are also known as those who took advantage of this. What is interesting is that the resolution of both banks is entrusted to persons we cannot claim to be unrelated or not in conflict of interest. There is even a person in these extraordinary administrations who has been permanently granted a license in Serbia to work in banking and has been appointed to the so-called recovery team. Do you think, Mr. Minister, that in Serbia we would appoint someone to take a license to operate in banking in Slovenia? Would something like that be possible? In view of the way trials are going, even criminal proceedings in the southern countries, I believe that such a thing is impossible. The answer given by the Minister to the interpolation is lukewarm, such as both budgets. There is neither an adequate reply from the Minister to the important claims of the signatories, except to be substantiated and supported by any comparative analysis or table. The answer itself started with a page six, which is unusual. The Minister has not with any evidence refuted our claim that he does not have a single bank resolution strategy. The novels adopted by the coalition days ago also confirm this. It's a different approach. The exemption of these two banks from stress tests also reinforces the fact that it is not a uniform concept. Only depositors of these two banks shall be granted a full payment irrespective of the amount of the application. Depositors in both banks are privileged compared to all others in other banks. The Minister did not deny that for the constitutional equal treatment of all other depositors in other banks, it would not be possible to provide the estimated EUR 14 billion if this happened, even in other banks. In our view, the situation is very critical. Foreign practice, for example, has recently been known as Cyprus, affirms the fact that owners and also those with more than the prescribed amount of deposits in banks must participate in the rehabilitation of banks, including by converting their values above these limits into equity shares. An exception has been made to us, and we feel that this is unfair and unconstitutional. It is also unfair because these things will also be paid by those who are otherwise assisted by the State through social transfers. The European Commission also proposes that, when banks are being rehabilitated, owners first and only then owners of hybrid bonds, and depositors over 100,000 euros, and only ultimately taxpayers. That's what turned out to be us. Taxpayers first. Nor did the Minister respond to the argument from the interpretation why it is necessary to pay for the entitlements of those who have buried both banks and who, despite the poor reports of the auditors with which the ministers were informed in time of the problems of both banks, paid dividends as well as the high meetings. An additional problem, as it is said, is the concealment of which depositors and why they receive special ministers of grace and will receive, in the process of controlling the liquidation of both failing banks, paid deposits of over 100,000 euros. This disclosure is being fought by the minister with all four of them. He's got a coalition coming up. You've prevented this from happening in the National Assembly at least three times in the last two months. However, as regards the second reason for the interpretation, this is the discharge of Mr Širclja, the Minister should refer to the facts and not to the opinions of the improper institutions that are or are in the service of the Government, such as the Office of the Government for Legislation, or it is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. If you refer to the opinion of the Commission on the prevention of corruption, which by the way does not have any such powers in your law, it is the same as referring to the Climate Change Office and their opinion on the compatibility of the budget with the fiscal rule and then withdrawing certain consonants. There's absolutely no difference. Or, say, I don't know, civil society for chimney services. Nothing has any legal basis. As far as legality or illegality is concerned, politicians from the Government could know that it is being established and decided by the court, not by the Government. The government didn't press charges, only to get them so that they could claim something like that. Nor has the new circumstances arisen because the law has not changed nor has any compulsory interpretation of this Article been adopted. This, too, Mr Minister, could have known that laws can only be interpreted by the National Assembly, not by the Government or by any government official. The government did not require any explanation or compulsory explanation, nor did the coalition initiate it. And also the government has not initiated any constitutional review of the law on which you proposed the discharge of the minister. However, there is much to say about why Mr Shircelj was resolved, including Mr Luksic's statement, President of the Social Democrats, who said that Mr Šircelj was not dismissed for lack of expertise, but for other reasons. Other reasons, given that you have not taken advantage of the legal ones, are political and political. Neither of these claims was adequately answered by the Minister, except that his reply would be appropriate. In our opinion, the Minister will do his utmost to maintain a harmful banking network in order to preserve this sewerage, from which the money coming into the banks is flowing, even budgetaryly, and this will run into various accounts, so we propose that you support our proposal to decide that Minister Chufer will be relieved of his functions. I hope that the arguments for such support are sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The last position will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež as the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u22	Your Honor! Social Democrats believe that Slovenia has the power to overcome the challenges before us and to become once again a promised country of its people. For young people who will find opportunities in it, for workers whose rights will be respected and protected, for the elderly, whom society will repay for their past work and provide them with a decent and safe autumn of life, for children who will be given opportunities for a happy and full life by this community, for all of us to find inspiration in our country again, to give our best and to create a different future with hard work. We believe that Slovenia has the potential to do so. In its position, natural resources, knowledge and courage, we see the guarantee that successful Slovenia is not a story from the past, but a promise for the future. Slovenia needs stability and at least a minimum consensus on the urgent steps it must take to expand its doors to international financial markets in order to ensure access to more favourable financing and to take the necessary measures to begin recovery. With our cooperation in the government, we want to contribute to the adoption and implementation of the necessary measures, the measures that Slovenia needs to break down the crisis and start recovery, by strengthening stability and confidence. That's why we don't call three, and we don't scare her either. We are determined that Slovenia will remain the master of its destiny. But it is up to us and our people to see whether this fate will be more pleasant than it is now. Interpellation against the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, is a typical example of a two-faced policy that sets its own political benefits far ahead for the good of the country and its people. This interpolation clearly opens up the winter season of interpolation, which has a clear objective, an attempt to destabilise the government majority, not to take necessary measures, and that, by known principle: the worst for the country, the better for us, threatens recovery. We have also seen a similar scenario in 2011 with the implementation of a triple referendum and the collapse of the government, and the historical memory can find more examples of such irresponsible and destructive policies. It is clear that the Minister of Finance, through a measure of controlled liquidation of the two smaller banks, has transferred the burden of their recovery to taxpayers in favour of their owners and depositors, with the discharge of Andre Shirtzl from the position of the non-executive director of the bad bank by the Law on Measures to Strengthen the Stability of Banks. This resolution should also be judged in the context of concealing the actual situation in the Slovenian banking system with an evil intention to shift to taxpayers in favour of the elite burden of bank recovery. Social Democrats are convinced that the decision of the Bank of Slovenia and the Government for the controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probank was correct. With thoughtful and discreet measures, it was prevented from spilling the problem of the two banks into the entire banking system. This problem and this threat are not unrealistic, which was at least pointed out by the low liquidity of both banks, which severely jeopardised their solvency, including their low capital adequacy. These risks are also highlighted by the audits referred to in the interpolation. The SDS is also clear that it did not provide timely insurance and raised state deposits totalling EUR 600 million from both banks, as this sum is significantly above the market share of both banks and is therefore to be disproportionately exposed by the State in both banks and thus subject to greater risk. So the question is, why didn't Minister Chufer move these deposits? The question is also why Dr. Janez Šušteršič did not do this, but why not Andrej Šircelj, the de facto finance minister at the time of the erosion of the Janša Coalition, who did not do it, and now, as one of the central authors of this interpretation, the current finance minister, is equally clear. By the way, the withdrawal of state deposits from both banks would in fact only increase the problem and further contribute to reducing the liquidity of both banks. It could be the first sign of panic to be followed by a massive withdrawal of deposits, not just from the two banks mentioned above, but from the entire banking system. It is worth noting that state deposits owned by Slovenian taxpayers are fully insured in the event of controlled liquidation. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia has prevented uncontrolled consequences for the entire banking system. The Extraordinary Administrations of the two banks have already carried out audits, and several complaints have been filed on this basis, making it apparent that the interpretation of these measures has been carried out in order to cover and cloud the responsibility for the situation in both banks. More. So far, the publicly published audit data show that the burden of the controlled liquidation of both banks will be lower than the volume of the preventive government guarantee and even lower than the first estimates, i.e. around EUR 430 million. We can find that controlled liquidation and these measures have ensured the stability of the Slovenian banking system, prevented the spillover of the problems of both banks into the economy, provided for a review of the operations of both banks, and therefore the identification of the responsibilities of the leaders in both banks and their owners by the competent law enforcement authorities, and secured tax money as well, since the measures have prevented the problem from spilling from the two banks into the banking system and the national economy as a whole. As soon as the National Assembly at its extraordinary meeting addressed the measures taken in both banks, we made a comparison. For the Slovenian banking system, both banks are equal to or even greater in size and weight than Lehman Brothers had in the US. Today, it is quite clear how devastating the fall of Lehman has triggered not only the American economy but the global economic and financial order. The virus is a small microscopic organism that can destroy millions of times the size of it. The second part of the readings is related to the resolution of the mags. Mr Andrej Širclja from the position of non-executive director of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. We Social Democrats were critical at the time of appointment until we had a dual function, a parliamentary function and a function in a bad bank. Although the law has excluded the validity of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in this case, the Law on Members has not been suspended with the rules applicable to all of us. More. It seems that the law in this part has already been essentially written on the skin of Andre Širclja and that the marriage exception was made exclusively for him. The Member shall not be a member of the Supervisory Board. How can it then be tolerated to have even a member of the Management Board under a single management system, where supervisory functions are also accompanied by executive or management tasks? The prohibition in the Law on Members is imposed because there is a need to tackle the risk of conflict of interest at systemic level. If this prohibition applies to the Supervisory Board of the municipal company, how is it possible that this prohibition does not apply to a bad bank where a billion-dollar transfer of bad investments allows a wide range of conflicts of interest. The Social Democrats were expected to be a magician. Andrej Šircelj recognized the disturbing duality of his duties by himself and took the necessary steps when his office as Secretary of State ceased. We would see this as a principled attitude, and as such we would respect it. However, we do not accept the interpretation by which Shirtzelj is intended to be the disruptive victim who advocates transparency in the rehabilitation of banks and who is a great fighter against the compensation of taxpayers for the damage caused in the banking system. This is also an example of duality that can be seen in this interpretation. We can also read the following in interpolation. "The Ministry of Finance shall endeavour to ensure that the State or taxpayers also guarantee payment to the holders of the subordinated bonds of the two banks. Since there are predominantly state banks, certain investment and pension funds and certain tangible natural persons among the holders of subordinated bonds, it would, as the interpolation states, show that the bank's loss is even greater than predicted by the largest pessimists. The Minister of Finance is therefore seeking to relieve financial institutions and wealthy individuals, regardless of the fact that this is contrary to European guidelines, when the banks are being rehabilitated." End of quote. Really? Does the Minister therefore act contrary to European guidelines? Does it protect the owners of subordinated bonds, including rich individuals? Will the bank loss be even greater because the minister protects the wealthy natural persons whose payment will be guaranteed by taxpayers? Really? Didn't the Slovenian Democratic Party loudly attack the proposed resolution of the Banking Act a few weeks ago, which consistently implemented the European guidelines specifically on the proposal of the Finance Minister? Hasn't she voted against this bill a few days ago after the veto? Did she not attack the law with the thesis that we are too hasty in applying these guidelines? Therefore, its representatives did not protect, under the terms, the wealthy natural persons and attack the Government because it did not protect their investments in subordinate financial instruments with the guarantee of taxpayers. This is also another sign of a two-faced policy which stems from this interpretation. Today, the Social Democrats are putting Dr. Uros Chufer in the dam. But we do have high expectations for the Minister of Finance in the coming months, and perhaps even in the years ahead. First time. We expect Slovenia to take a more active approach to restructuring the business sector, which is a key prerequisite for achieving economic growth. The over-indebted economy must be tackled by means of more efficient insolvency legislation and additional funding will also need to be provided. And equity funding. Therefore, we have proposed that some of the privatisation funds should be earmarked to improve the liquidity and capital adequacy of the economy, as well as to finance new businesses, especially young people. We expect to increase the efficiency of the existing mechanisms for financing the economy through different public institutions, as the tightened conditions of these institutions often make it impossible for the funds to be received by those who really need them to bridge the acute economic situation, the new development or the new jobs. Another time. We expect a serious approach to the restructuring of the budget into a modern development budget, which will more precisely measure the achievement of the objectives set. In doing so, it will take into account, in particular, the implementation of the Green Tax and Budget Reform, greater transparency, in particular the review of state aid for the whole budget, the preparation of the exit strategy, the revision of budgetary planning by drawing up fiscal frameworks for the next 5 years, and alternative measures in the event of a failure to achieve the projected economic growth. Measures, simplification of public procurement legislation, both for its appreciation and greater operationality to improve European resource utilisation. Finally, in this context, we also expect the introduction of electronic tax boxes and other measures to combat the grey economy. Third time. We expect the new Slovenian State Holding Act to establish a permanent regulatory framework to enable transparent, responsible and efficient management of state investments in the economy, with the aim of increasing their profitability and achieving wider developmental impacts. That the holding will be accountable to the National Assembly and that there will be a place here in this Parliament to take key strategic decisions and, through reporting, to exercise accountability and transparency. Fourth time. We expect a coherent management strategy, which will not only be a list of sales, but a transparent set of the country's ownership objectives, as expected by the State as owner of its own companies, to be adopted and more broadly agreed. With profitability, the strategy should also pursue the objective of increasing employment in sectors where the state will maintain its share as an important or strategic investment. The privatisation of what the state will sell must be done in a transparent and fair manner. We expect that the transfer of bad investments will also be done in a fair and transparent manner. The transfer of poor investments should serve to clear bank balance sheets and to manage poor investments more efficiently, rather than allow the field for private earnings. Public taxpayers' money, coupled with the rehabilitation of banks, requires the strictest responsibility in handling it and therefore the strictest control mechanisms to prevent abuse must be put in place. We are aware that our expectations are high, but also the demands of people throughout Slovenia are no less so that we can return hope to this country and get on the path of recovery. We would like to point out that this government, by adopting the budget and other measures, has laid the foundations for public economic and social stabilisation. The European Commission has also assessed the steps taken as an important step forward. Now is the time for the measures to be implemented, but in Slovenian policy, once the framework of the main measures is already known, let us focus on how to start entrepreneurship and the economy, how to reverse the employment trend, and how to reopen jobs in the country, how to create an opportunity for young people in this country and return hope to life in Slovenia. Interpellations against the Minister of Finance We will not support the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving on to the debate. I see that Mr Cernač has already volunteered for the debate, probably on behalf of the proposaler. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much again. Good bye to all of you! I do not know now whether the Social Democrats are no longer invited to the coalition meetings, given what we have now heard in the last ten minutes in the second part of the presentation of the position on the interpealer. Certainly these reasons speak in favour of interpolation support and not the other way around. They seem to be disturbed only by the proposer of this interpretation. The 2014 and 2015 budget is intended to provide the basis for the stabilisation of public finances. Really? Never before in history has the state been as indebted in one year as it will be in 2014. Never. 2014, 2015 amounts to EUR 12.3 billion in debt and guarantees. Just in 2014, a little less than €10 billion. Not even Pahor's government has been able to do that in three years. Pahorj was an apprentice against the government of Alenka Bratušek, concerning the debt. Amateur, clean because in three years he's been in charge of this country twice for eight billion and something. It is necessary to look at the figures and facts and talk about what was actually adopted last week in this national assembly. We asked the Minister why such decisions were proposed. In addition to what was stated in the interpolation, a number of additional questions were raised in the explanation today, which were not answered even by a word. At the outset, allow me, in the context of further interpretation of the interpolation, without knowing it, but of course I know about the way this government coalition works, somehow we have already come to know and see how it works, anticipated that something similar would happen, as it happened on September 20th, when we discussed these two banks and the stability of the banking system here in this National Assembly, and the police made a film arrest of Medje and Arhar to clear up some of the stories in the banks. And something like this is happening today, look. Incomprehensible! Some who sit in ministerial ranks and are not in these chairs today would be very good writers. When the ministers are no longer ministers, they may be able to find an opportunity here for their subsequent mode of vivendi, because they have obviously wasted their political path. None of this is going to happen, ladies and gentlemen! None of those that we are talking about today in the context of interpolation will also be exposed to hair on their heads after these film actions. I'm pretty sure. Above all, no one will lose the euro of his property that he has acquired in any illegal way. In response to our additional explanation, the PM highlighted the importance of the resolution of the banking system. That's very interesting. It is interesting to hear this from a person who, well a year ago, was the driving force of the then opposition, the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, in preventing a procedure for the rehabilitation of the banking system, which went through the establishment of the so-called bad bank and started there sometime in the spring of last year, late May or June, and then in the summer and autumn, it did everything together with the then opposition, the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats that it did not come into force. It was also a driving force for the signing of signatures five minutes before midnight in the National Assembly for the Referendum. And as a result of these practices, the rehabilitation of the banking system has moved away and this country and these citizens will therefore become significantly more than they should. Now you have the same support as the Prime Minister. This conversion and this undignified change of opinion have already been seen in the introduction of the fiscal rule into the constitution. But if he supports it now, thank God, something will finally move in this area, unfortunately too late. On its part, it was said that responsibility for the state of the banking system lies primarily with the first government. It was said, on the other hand, that the majority of these loan problems were caused by unsecured loans during that period. Did the government of John Janša distribute them? Does the government of Alenka Bratusek now grant them? Who was the one who set up the credit portfolio for these things? Regulator, Bank of Slovenia. Who were the ones who sat on the boards and oversight boards of these banks? In our political group you will find it difficult to find any of the exposed members. However, she sat in the supervisory board of the new KBM from June 2009 to July 2011 by Mrs Alenka Bratušek. And a lot of loans were accepted during that period. Decisions have been taken to recapitalise this bank politically through state-owned enterprises, so that these state-owned companies are now having difficulties due to a weakening in addition to the new KBM, because these poor investments, which are worthless, must be weakened. The President of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank was Mr. Kramar, since 1. 2. 2004 to 1. 2. 2009 He oversaw the full mandate of the first Janshea government. He was continued by his former LDS. Finally, for exceptional credits, for a good job in a bank that you have already spent over a billion euros on tax money for such and other recapitalisations, you have paid a million Euros. And last but not least, the current Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, is coming from this bank. Before becoming Minister, he was Director of the Management Centre for Financial Management. So he's responsible for the area that we're talking about today. Although we are only talking today directly about these biggest holes in the largest state bank, this problem is still affecting us, and the price for its resolution will also be due to the wrong approach taken by the two minor private banks, which were inadequate in 100 % of private ownership. It was said by the Prime Minister in this reply that the opposition is calling the troika. There is no formal possibility of doing anything about the so-called threesome. The responsible government asks for help when it considers that, from the point of view of the state and its citizens, such assistance would be more favourable than what we are now witnessing at the time of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, when we owe ourselves at abnormally high rates and say that the threat of our sovereignty is the arrival of the troika. Thus, if the government were responsible if the Minister of Finance was responsible and at a certain point would have estimated that we could not because of the gravity of the problem and asked for the cheaper financial resources that exist in Europe, the burden that will have to be paid in the coming years would be significantly lower than today. Are we more at risk of pensions, social transfers and everything else you've listed by paying less interest, say at least half or three times less than today, or if we pay three times more, what we're doing today? Can we do more for these purposes if we pay 500 million dollars instead of a billion interest, as much as we pay at the end of next year? You don't have to do a lot of math on this. However, in order for the measures to be taken in such a case for the stabilisation of public finances and for the long-term possibility of development to be adopted in any case, it is likely that all of us will have to be clear. Some of these measures, which are classical, are already being implemented. Privatisation is running too slowly, as it is obvious that some in this bicycle are unnecessarily blocking it. A number of other measures have been taken and, as we can see, some will also be taken in the coming months. It is said that the opposition does not call the troika, the opposition warns that the current four, the government of Alenka Bratušek in the coalition of four parties, are worse, significantly worse and more harmful to the state and its citizens than the so-called three. It has been said that we have no ideas, so we call the three. What are the ideas of this government? What has been shown in the past? In what way are public finances to be stabilised on the one hand and, on the other hand, to remedy the banking system, eliminate the credit crunch and enable the economy to develop. With what? So far, we have seen public consumption roughly intact, even increased, and the only measure was higher taxes. These were the only ideas of the government coalition led by Alenka Bratušek and, of course, the driving force in this event, as far as taxes are concerned, is, of course, the minister responsible for finance, in this particular case, Dr. Uroš Cuffer. VAT, excise duties, road taxes, property taxes, taxes, everything that is possible has been invented and perhaps another measure has been forgotten and will be hidden somewhere, such as this amendment of the Income Act on harmonisation, which in a hidden way reduces people's income. In fact, it's an increased tax, however you reverse it. The PM said that, after Europe has assessed our budget for the next year, which is formally drinking water, it will not be carried out in the way it was adopted, it is not only the opposition that knows it, but also the coalition, and it is also known by the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, that we are no longer in the society of Cyprus, Greece, Portugal, but we are in the society of France, the Netherlands, Germany. Where are we? This is the mirror where we are. Fees on our bonds. We do not need other data, but we can look at other macroeconomic indicators. But this graph tells us everything. These are three-year bond premiums. We are the first here, 4,84, behind us are the Portuguese, there are still Croats, not on this graph 4,05, Portuguese 3.99. But here at the end are the Germans, 0.2. Does that mean — in the company of whom are we? The Germans, as the Prime Minister says, or are we in the company of Portugal, which the Prime Minister says is no longer our society? Thank God we're as good as the Portuguese. Only with this poor percentage would this be some ten million euros, only with this three-year bond issued last week. Do you know what a few ten million euros means? For three million euros for a fire rescue service, "blood fight" was held here last week. A few ten million Euros mean, last but not least, all subsidies for public passenger transport, on the railway and on the road. It is all that the other Janša government introduced when you say that it did not give anyone anything when students, students from last year paid a symbolic price for monthly tickets both in Slovenia and here in Ljubljana. By the way, Mr Jankovic also received EUR 3 million of these subsidies, saying that he had never received anything from the Janša government, not him, of course, but children who come from other places and use his urban transport, where he had a subsidy for those who are citizens, but not for others. Now everyone has this subsidy. €50 million is about an annual cost of this. So, a few 10 million euros, say EUR 50 million only in a relatively small, slightly smaller bond premium, could be secured if Dr Uroš Cuffer acted responsibly and at a certain point suggested entry into a mechanism that could allow for cheaper debt. He didn't do it. On the contrary. Last week, the day before the adoption of the budget was issued to the Phantom investor on closed quotations, a closed procedure of EUR 1.5 billion, a bond of little less than 5% interest, three years, with about EUR 6 million of current earnings and other unknown costs, for which we are also asking the Minister here today what they are. So who takes our sovereignty from us is the real question. We can see that according to all these figures that we have on the table, our very own government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, and not any of the external factors, is taking our sovereignty to the greatest extent. Although Dr. Uroš Cuffer tried to try and somehow in response here today read one part of what he wrote on the nine pages in response to the interpolation, unfortunately it must be found that, as in the reply here too today, unfortunately he was not successful and did not respond to most of the readings, he did not respond in argument, nor did he respond to the new statements that we have mentioned today. I think it's almost none or none of the new references. He said that this decision was about how to save two private banks, which we found were operating in a rather narrow circle. By the way, I didn't even know that there could pay the bills, give the deposit inside and so on, and probably most people didn't know either. But even if, look, all those who had deposits there, I believe that most of you sitting here today in this national council have no problems with 100 thousand or more deposits in banks. So all those who had deposits of up to 100,000 euros were, in effect, safe under the law. All applications up to 100,000 euros are guaranteed by law. Thus, if the bank goes bankrupt, it is the mechanism envisaged for the resolution of the other banks, which allows all these deposits to be paid up to EUR 100,000. It has been said that the problem here too would be that our other banks are not even capable of collecting, I think, these 250 million or 270 million euros for what would be necessary. That's the problem. And that statement that was made here was 20. 9. On the part of the Governor, it is indeed a threat to the banking system and that people will burn and start raising banks. If all the other banks are unable to provide a quarter of a billion. But no matter what, even if it did happen, I don't think it would have happened, but even if it had happened, it's by law the country that enters. And so the cost of the state would be — how much? 250, 300 million euros. How much is in this process? A billion EUR 30 million was a guarantee approved by the government at the request of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer. And the hypnotic cost is supposed to be EUR 400 million. All the other arguments cited, why such a decision, that it would not be able to pay the bills, that the payment turnover would be stopped, that people would go to banks and raise deposits from other banks and so on. Please, I don't think you believe that. The banks had a limited portfolio, a relatively small, 4% market share, a closed circle, more or less fluctuated, we heard, people from the same political mile, interesting around the Kučan Forum 21. Most of the transactions they concluded were intended to close such or other ownership networks. And most of these loans will never, in my opinion, be returned, ever. It has been said, it is not true that taxpayers will bear the highest burden of costs for this measure, which was proposed by the Minister of Finance and will be borne by the owners. Tell me in particular, how about one example of all the owners who have been publicly published, and we can present it again here – will Mr Herman Rigelnik lose the EUR 6.9 million dividends he paid as owner of this bank this summer? Will he lose his house on the Brace, or will he lose the apartment he bought recently here in Ljubljana for half a million euros, losing 390,000 of the pension he received at the retirement that took place somewhere this year in the same period when these two banks were exhausted, robbed of their land in the hands of the state? If that happens, great. I don't think so. And if it were to happen, it would have happened six. 9. Once this decision has been taken, sealing should take place on all this property. But they didn't. And they won't in the future. However, we will witness such or other pianist performances in the way we saw them in the time of the previous government, at that time the interior minister, as far as this is concerned, was about as good a director as we saw a number of film actions during that period, but the financial effects of all this for the state budget are few. So I'm afraid there's no justification for that. It is not true that a different way of liquidating these two banks would mean higher costs for citizens. That's not true. That's not true. As regards non-compliance with the rules of the European Union, it was then said that the European Union was encouraging the withdrawal of an inefficient bank from the market. We don't have a dilemma about this, because we haven't seen it either. However, we have seen the non-compliance with the rules of the European Union in our work, where we are talking about who such inefficient and imported banks should be prioritized, or taxpayers through the state budget and through the guarantees of the state or those on the one hand who own these banks, and on the other hand those who have sat in the administrations and supervisory boards of these banks and who are responsible for these works, and those who have had little more assets loaded in these banks because they obviously had more information and served in this way over a period of time. And Europe says, first of all, all these: owners, administrations and supervisory councils, all those responsible, only ultimately taxpayers. That is why, in other cases across Europe, more than 100,000 euro deposits have turned into equity shares and so on, so they have not been guaranteed, which is why they should also be here if this approach has already been taken. This approach was not taken. As he was chosen, in our view, he smells like unlawful state aid. And we opposed that work, and there was no convincing answer to that part. It was said that this procedure was chosen because a different way of abolishing these two banks could have devastating public financial consequences for the country. The country is indeed on weak foundations and these public finances are very much designed so that these country deposits in these banks could break this country, and you cannot convince the opposition without convincing it. If we have information that all these questionable claims in the Slovenian banking system are at least 4 billion or, realistically, 7.5 billion, 200 or 300 million state deposits cannot threaten the country or have devastating public financial consequences for the country. Moreover, there was no answer to the obvious that such a model was not maintained, since in the future, in serious recovery of the remaining part of the banking system, it would pose a major problem because such an approach as was taken here will no longer be possible to recover from other banks. And the question is, where is the minister's responsibility here when he provides for some private banks a 100 per cent deposit coverage of more than 100,000 euros, and he will not defend or even propose to other banks. The comparisons that were with other banks, such as the second largest bank in Cyprus, are also unsustainable because they are completely different relationships, a different portfolio. It's about the bank that was second largest. These two banks were on the tail the size of banks in the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, we have not heard any response today to our additional findings, which speak of the fact that the conduct of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, has not only been worrying, but has also been largely irresponsible or perhaps even targeted in the way that his actions were, instead of protecting the public interest, protecting the interests of the budget, public finances, protecting the interests of private banks, owners of private banks. Why am I saying this? It was not explained why the minister increased deposits in these two banks by 50% in May this year – from EUR 209 million 400 000 to EUR 318 million. At a time when it was clear what was going on with these two banks, at a time when it had to deal with the European recommendations, to which it referred itself in response to the interpolation, that such banks should be encouraged to withdraw from the market, this additional injection in the form of deposits made it possible to extend the liquidity of these banks, but did not at the same time require the owners of the banks to do so. Just two months later, one of the owners paid out dividends of almost EUR 7 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u25	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u26	We didn't get that answer why he did it. There can be no answer that it was in the interest of the State that the bank was going into liquidation six months later than it needed to go. This response does not hold serious and sober judgment because the damage caused to the State and taxpayers due to what has been done is still significantly greater. He talked about other state-owned companies and certain municipalities having deposits in addition to the state. He was talking about 400 million. So who had the remaining 80 million? Therefore, he did not discuss whether, in support of these two private banks, in this extension of their lives before deciding whether to cover all these robots by means of a procedure that you proposed and was then adopted, or whether other predominantly state banks were involved in this support, or whether they had such or other deposits or such or other activities of the NLB, NKBM, Banka Vipa and so on. So we expect answers to these questions. We estimate that these decisions were wrong. And even if there were no other decisions in this regard, there is sufficient reason to claim the Minister's responsibility, because, as a result, we have to be additionally indebted to the market where interest is high. As a result, they are not more stable, but increasingly endangered by our public finances, whose first guardian is Minister Uroš Chufer. We then asked today about an additional debt of billions and a half. We've seen that at an abnormally high rate, it was made in a closed circle. So who is this buyer? Who's the one who got the $6 million discount? How much did this issue cost, how much was the commission of those involved? All these questions have not been answered, but we again point out that we are reading in public yesterday's statement by Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek that we did not need to be further indebted for a billion and a half euros, but that we have done so to verify how we are quoted in this market, whether we are even able to repay ourselves, and today's statement by the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Chufer, that we were forced to be in charge of implementing the budget. So what is true and who is misleading the public here? However, at least, what the public expects, and also in the context of the readings referred to in the interpretation, is the question why this commitment in such a way, why, at such an interest rate, why a three-year manual and so on. With regard to the unlawful discharge of one of the four non-executive directors of the so-called bad bank, the Minister, in response to the interpolation, has in some way attached himself to our findings. For we have indicated that Mr Shircelj should have been previously called upon in accordance with the law to determine which of the functions which some have considered incompatible will continue to be performed. And the minister said it happened, but then this deadline was cut artificially and the government confirmed this decision at the letter meeting. But the minister didn't object to him. He was even his proposer. So he confirmed that he acted contrary to the law, even if he could interpret it a little differently than we did. In any case, the law cannot be interpreted either by the Minister of Finance, as was said somewhere in one position, nor by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which thinks something — we think something — but it is the one who gives a credible interpretation of the law in such a case as it was in this case, the National Assembly. And why a settlement within a week after a decision was made on how to rehabilitate or abolish two private banks, the Factor Bank and the Probank, not before? Mr Shircelj has been one of the four non-executive directors of a bad bank for more than half a year. And until then, until the moment he criticized the inappropriate decision that was taken at Probank and Factor Bank, he was not intruding. However, in order to have international experience in the financial and banking fields, there is probably no need to be specifically justified. And so much more so, this resolution speaks of her being extremely political. Some of the opinions expressed here today in the positions of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and Desus say that they do not support our views, but, on the other hand, what has been said here in the position of these two parliamentary groups, forgive me, speak of the fact that the Minister of Finance does not function as expected or expected by him. It is true that we are used to speaking for the public and the like and so on, both in one group and in another, especially in Desus, but despite this, there have been quite a few arguments that support interpretation, if we look at it in terms of content. Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek said today that the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, was one of the better ministers, working, good, did a great job during this period. Here. I think that no other minister in the history of this country, but I believe that he will not be able to raise the tax burden in this country in such a short time in the next six months, as much as this has done for this minister. I don't think he's gonna be like that anymore. The quality of the minister, if we look from the point of view of an area entrusted to him, is likely to be measured by some indicators. I think it's a mirror that needs to be built to see what the quality of this minister is, that the indicators talking about where the country is today and where it will be because of these decisions that the Minister has taken and is still taking in the next two and subsequent years. One of the indicators, or one of the mirrors, was set earlier. This is certainly a mirror of this minister and of these governments as a result – the bond premiums are as high as they have ever been before. This country's debt goes beyond all records. I doubt that any other Minister of Finance will be able to bring him to the National Assembly in the future and then, with some kind of broad support, achieve the adoption of such a large amount of debt as this has succeeded this Minister of Finance. But, look, somewhere up until 2008, this country was relatively small in debt. It is true that there have been different situations, this column being less than a billion euros for 2008, in recent years. Then, because of the changed situation, and also because of what you see for yourself, because a number of measures have not been taken – one of them is the bad bank that we proposed in 2009 under the Pahor's government – the Pahor government in 2009 owed 3 billion, 2010 for 2 billion and a half, 2011 for 3 billion, says a total of 8 billion and a half in three years. Then comes the other Janša government, the column falls to half, even though we were in a very tight situation in 2012. They were no less sharpened than they were today, or even more. However, Dr. Janez Šuštaršič of the National Gazette, which was then the Minister of Finance, proposed an assignment only at the level you see here, about a billion EUR 600 million. And from 2013 onwards with the rebalancing of the government of Alenka Bratušek, or the proposal of the Minister of Finance of Dr Uroš Cufer, jumped again to over 4 billion, 3 billion and half dollars in May, at an interest rate of 6%, and the last one-and-a-half-billion-euro debt last week, the day before the adoption of the budget, at 5% for three years. Then we have a projection for the future – 2014, where 4 billion 800 is foreseen, but this table does not show everything else, which is Article 39 of the Bank Guarantee Act, for interventions in the market for own debt securities and so on, totalling EUR 9 billion 600 million. And if we add up to 2015, it's 12 billion 300 million euros. And something similar about a current deficit is a similar picture. The current deficit was markedly low during the first Janša government, then increased in the time of the Pahorje government, with the second Janša government shrinking from 2 billion 300 in 2011 to a billion 300 in 2012 and we will now witness the increase again in 2013. All these measures taken in connection with these two private banks, as well as all the other measures proposed and adopted by them, in accordance with their competences, and others proposed and then adopted by the Government or the National Assembly, speak of the fact that the public financial situation in this country will not improve on the basis of these decisions, but will deteriorate. This spiral of debt that we are witnessing will bring us into a situation where the state will be very difficult to service its obligations. And because of this once again, there is no answer to the question that has been very clearly raised several times: why does the Minister insist on this path, why not explore other options and not propose access to cheaper debt within Europe, and thus burden the future generation in particular, because they will be the most deprived of interest due to the repayment of interest on everything that will happen in 2014 and 2015. The Minister is in one of the Responses to the question of a journalist who asked him: "Commissioner Rehn spoke of a precautionary loan – what is it?" The minister answers, "That, I think she asked the reporter, so I wanted to ask what it was." The journalist asks back, "Don't you know what it would be like to be given a precautionary loan that Europe or some investors are supposed to give us?" And the minister, Dr. Uroš Chufer, answers, "I've learned that now from this contribution." In the meantime, since it has been a while since this interview, I believe that the Minister has received the necessary information and we expect him to respond to us, why he insists on the policy of enormously indebtedness of this country at enormously high interest rates, if we all know that such a policy takes away our sovereignty to the greatest extent and because we will have to pay more than twice as much for interest as it otherwise, it makes it impossible for us to carry out the functions of the social state in the future. It threatens the payment of pensions for social transfers and everything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. As the first of the Members, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has been declared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u28	Hello! I can't believe I wanted to lean back a little bit longer, but I thought it would take a while because I could see it there for two and a half hours, but still. Now I know or you all know why after 45 minutes it's always a break. Because people don't listen anymore because they can't even follow anymore, and it's become a pain in the ass. At 9 a.m., we listened to the introduction, 50 minutes, of former Minister Cernač, a fellow Member who, as a representative of the motioners, gave reasons for mere interpretation. Then we listened to all representatives of the parliamentary groups, of course also to the Minister, who is intertwined, and not to the Interpellian, and what is most important is that, at the end, the representative of the proposers announces and begins to interpret the things he has already said. Anyway, let's do it in a row. I must say that I took the time and I also took the interpretations that the SDS Group has already invested, and I must say, here before me are these interpretations, otherwise nothing special, but significantly better than what you have done now. It's an interpellationary victory against what you've been doing and you've known, so if so far I thought I'd learn something from you, I don't have anything left. But what you said inside the interpolation itself is, of course, something else. Let's put things together so people can understand. Because what you said, Mr. Blackach, they don't understand anything. If you're saying that this minister is responsible for the Factor Bank and Probank for going into a controlled liquidation, then I'm asking myself today and I'm probably also asking voters and voters, including yours, why your government, your then minister, who was familiar with Banka Slovenije's data, what he's doing and what the situation of these two banks is, why they didn't do it at the time. The answer is simple. Because you couldn't, because it's not up to the government to decide, except to give consent. This is up to the Bank of Slovenia and here you have the wrong person to talk to. But it is true that in well-known manners you have glued everything together and walked along the NLB, into the past and what I know what else. You know, these viewers, the random ones who still look at you, because it's invisible, believe me, no one wants to see you, not just you, not me. I doubt you will have a comment, Jože, is the fact that there was a supervisory board in your government led by President Igor Marinšek, who you know very well, and the Supervisory Board confirmed every year the award to the same director, who eventually came to the conclusion that he had reached such a high award. No one did anything. You had all the leverage to see what was actually going on. But in the familiar manner of your client, what you always do, you are the best at this and you have a craftsmanship and therefore you will never fail, because with this trade at least you will earn with advice to another, how to do it, you have done it by starting to rotate and fabricate data. You just know what you know. Look, you were also talking today about how Slovenia is actually right now before actually having to go on the ESM track and solve what else to get rid of, but not that it goes into such hopeless loans with such high interest rates and what I know what else. I have to say that one thing I learned from you is that I have to follow you very closely. And now I'm going to talk about the language you understand and you use it all the time. Because that's the only way you'll understand what I'm saying, because otherwise you don't understand me and then you turn your back on me. Look, your president, I hope that your president counts something in the party and that your policy follows what he says. That's why I'm going to quote that I'm not going to make mistakes. In an interview at Channel A on 19 June 2012, he said: "Since January, February, March, when I took over this government's mandate, it was considered that all parliamentary parties in Slovenia were to enter the golden fiscal rule into the constitution. Finally, this promise was made by the previous Prime Minister to our partners, and we just inherited it. When this meeting was held in January, I was not the Prime Minister, nor did I have the government and this government coalition, and at that time all representatives of all Slovenian parties were in favour of writing the golden fiscal rule into the constitution. That voice went into the world, they took it seriously. They said, at last something is happening in Slovenia, politics has come together, it is capable of this agreement. And all we want is to keep the word that was given and to restore credibility to Slovenia." Now you're probably wondering why I'm reading this to you. I need to give you a context so that you can understand the next sentence, which is important for the continuation of this interpolation. "If we do not do so, we will come to the point where we will have to humiliate ourselves, ask for foreign assistance, we will have to lose some sovereignty and I, as someone who was around when this country arose, would not want to experience this humiliation. We're still strong enough, far enough from the gap... "This repeats in two more, three interviews with which I will not torture you because you still have them on the table and at your disposal and you know what you must skip and forget and never say out loud. And then the moment of truth comes when Mr Janez Janša is no longer Prime Minister, comes into the opposition, comes into another situation and begins the following. To use the correct sentence. Yes, here, 1st October 2013, in a statement for Primorske novice: "The government should ask for help. The budget, in his view, is unrealistic, and we will not be able to convince anyone in the financial markets to lend us money on commercial terms. As soon as the government admitted its incompetence and applied for international assistance, it would be cheaper for Slovenian taxpayers, Janša is convinced. The waiting will only worsen the conditions under which Slovenia will have to agree." I don't understand you anymore. On the one hand, on the other hand, you say that this is a Slovenian shame, that it is impossible, and that we must not be so humiliated, and on the other hand, you are always saying that we should actually go straight for help. But, Mr Andrej Vizjak, since you often like to be rude to others' speeches, then you like to be clean when you perform yourself, I will tell you the following. It's time to build yourself a mirror. All together. As much damage as you've done again with this interpolation and again you're just scaring foreign financial markets. Even the Financial Times has found that Janša has chosen politics, as they say, that I am more precise, that I will not use anything that has not been said again, and that you will not repeat things that are not true because it is in your habit, they have said the following. That was, you know, nine. Seven. 2012 at 12.23. That's what you like very much. He said this comment: "The investors are not so sure that Slovenia will not need international assistance. He cites the words of Prime Minister Janez Janša, at the time that the state could face a Greek scenario if the opposition in Parliament does not support changes to stabilise public finances. Janša is not the first European leader to really scare the market with an overblown rhetoric that he wanted to win back the opposition." And you keep doing that. You keep working, you're scaring through. Where is this pride of yours now? Yesterday I listened to a fellow Member Pojbič, who always likes to talk about how we must work for the Slovenian nation, that it is a disgrace to the Slovenian nation. You're really helping all of this, so don't do anything about it. Where is this unity, the common voice that Janez Janša used to call all the time? Let's sit together, give us your hand! No, no, no. You go after a man who was in politics for exactly 7 months, he didn't know about politics before, he wasn't in the political party, and he didn't know exactly what a political party was. You're making conspiracy theories, as you're used to in your former interpolations. I was surprised that there were no templates and no arrows, and I don’t know what else — what you’re used to doing. You couldn't put him anywhere. But your lab's gonna do it soon, and it's gonna find something else, and I don't know what. But in fact you say, as Mr. Chernač said, "In our client you will not find a man, you will not find a man who has anything to do with it." I don't know why Work wrote yesterday with the title Probank made controversial promises, after which the Bank of Maribor investigates the NPU and ATPV, and then finally finds itself, I'm sorry, colleague Pogačnik, where he's mentioned, and I believe, and I'm not going to make any judgments, because I'm not even called to give any judgments because I know that this is still just an article. Time will show, and procedures will show, not least will he tell himself what is true and what is not true. And we can talk about it. But no, you like to judge in advance before anything happens. Today, in the Journal, I read again the bankers lose their patience with the South. I told you what it is now. Well, when you read the article to the end, it says, "The FT perspective has been entrusted to the administration of the Court since 2007 by Marko Pogačnik. Although Pogačnik is one of the most vocal opponents of the Banking Act, besides SDS Member Andrej Visiak, who is considered a close friend of Mr. South's. I'm not going to judge you either because I don't have that right because I'm not here today. It's not true, it's not true. Unlike you, it's not. I'm not doing this, but I want to show you because I told you at the beginning that I would use your rhetoric, your way of doing it. First you spit on people, then you set them up, and then you say, "I don't have anything." Then add 100,000 newspaper articles and say you're just reading. magazines. I can honestly tell you that I am tired of your suggestions, because I have two pages of explanation first, and then I have 30 pages of newspaper articles with me. This is your way of working, but let's move on. I must say, you've done yourself a bear service with this interpolation because you're actually opening up the stories of you with this interpolation. I was neither the Minister nor the Secretary of State, I did not sit in any government, I never had any power or influence. It is true that I have heard today that Mr Chernač even wanted to bring the Minister further credit for the children's subsidies. Let's be glad they got them. But it's your way anyway. What happened to my colleague, Mr Shirtzle, that he went to the Executive Director, I must say that he is already on the perverse border. The fact that someone was appointed from the Ministry of Finance as CEO didn't bother me at all. Far from it. He has professional references to the fact that he's in there, knowledge, that he's convinced us all a number of times, and there's no dilemma here at all. Oh, yeah. That's when you didn't count on you to go to the opposition. And then what happened was that you didn't want him to do two functions: that he was both a Member and an Executive Director. And what you finally said is, what's most important is that you need a man who's going to be the opposition who's going to control what's really going on in a bad bank. Please, if this wish of yours were so sincere, then at least what it is would then be appointed or proposed by one of the opposition as CEO of this place, and today someone would believe you. However, I am sure that Mr Shircelj could not physically perform two such important works at the same time, because I do not have such a superman. It is impossible to be Executive Director and Member. Unexecutive, sorry, that's true, yes. But no matter what. Two very important functions that you simply cannot perform during normal working hours. It is already true that Members are not subject to the Labour Relations Act, but, however, it is not possible to work every day for 16, 17 hours, simply not possible. And that's why it's sick today to talk about someone being guilty and deserves even an interpretation because he simply did what Mr. Shirtzelj should have done himself. When he came to the opposition, he should simply step down. To resign, to return the function because it knows that, for the first time, there is a conflict of interest, secondly, which is even more important, there simply cannot be someone there who will not implement the policy that the current authority is implementing and intends to implement. And you know best how this works, don't you, because you're the experts on this. So for that reason, I have to say that this interpolation is really the worst thing I've ever seen here today. I also expect, given that we're supposed to be sitting here until 1:00 in the morning, it's time from here to forever, to listen to a whole bunch of eyewitnesses, and I don't know what else. But I'll tell you again, because no one is looking at us, but no one is, because it's invisible. Of course, I cannot support confidentiality or interpolation, I hope you understand this because it is rude and is not even justified in the way it should be. I can only tell you one thing, this is one of the first ministers, who is speaking very little – thank God he speaks a little less because as much as all the previous ministers have said, more damage has been done by speaking, let alone doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, on behalf of the motioners, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Well, we haven't heard one substantive reason why this interpretation is unfounded. I understand that colleague Jani Möderndorfer is going through a difficult time when he has to listen to the bells of church bells that keep ringing on his head. Then he comes to the National Assembly to give up this torture of his ears, and he has to listen to the debates. But, look, Mr. Möderndorfer, you're paid for it. You can leave this chair at any moment if you think you got it wrong from the people, which I think you did, but you don't have to burden everyone else with your traumas. This is a poor interpretation, we have heard, the articles are fastened and so on, but we have not heard one substantive argument in favour of this claim. Not one! It was said that we read to the minister things he didn't decide. Yes, please, is it the Ministry of Finance that makes the decisions of the enforcers — or what? Who is the first person to be responsible for public finances in this country? The Ministry of Finance enforcers or the minister in charge of finance? Who is the first to be responsible for the stability of the public financial system? Who is responsible for the measures proposed in the public financial field? The first is the Minister of Finance and then, of course, the whole Government, the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia and everyone else. But the first one is the minister in charge of finance. And this minister has proposed a billion EUR 30 million in guarantees for two private banks, to pay for what should be paid to the greatest extent by those who have done these jobs in the past, not by taxpayers. And that's one of the sights. It was said that Mr Marinšek, as Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board, had confirmed at some point the award to Mr Kramar, who had been appointed or commenced the mandate. 2. 2009 It was set up by the LDS political option. Mr Kramar had an integrated model for calculating this award in his employment contract. The employment contract was not signed by Mr Marinšek, but by his predecessors. So the way Mr Möderndorfer is picking up, I must say, is incomprehensible. I think I listened very carefully and I didn't understand what he was saying, but I didn't understand it at all, because everything he was saying was kind of confused and he doesn't have a tail or a head. And like I said at the beginning, I believe his pain is very great. Entry of the Golden Fiscal Rule into the Constitution and the evaluation of former Prime Minister John Janša of what will happen if we do not arrange these things, and the possibility of the arrival of the troika and so on. When this statement was made in June 2012, the European Bank Resolution Mechanism had not yet been established. It was only at the end of 2012 that this mechanism was established and that the country now has the option. It is up to this government whether or not it will take advantage of it. However, let me say something else that will hurt Mr Möderndorfer very much. If the former government were to remain and if the Minister of Finance were to remain the minister of the second government, surely this mechanism would not have to be cut down or cut to the extent that it will have to be cut down today. This is the problem of the current government, the measures it is taking. The first to be responsible for taking these measures must be the Minister of Finance. I did not understand this observation that I wanted to bring subsidies for children to the current minister, I was talking about that only with savings on one small part of this debt, only on this last debt, if it had occurred at the interest rate available to us under this European mechanism, would there have been so much savings that it would have been possible to pay all the subsidies for the public transport of students and students introduced by another Janša government. With regard to the unlawful discharge and this proposal submitted by the Minister to the government for one of the four non-executive directors, I believe that it has been repeatedly said that the formal procedure was not carried out in accordance with the applicable law and that the procedure proposed by the Minister was contrary to the law. Today, in response to the interpolation, Sam acknowledged this and, as far as we are concerned, this action is somehow recognized.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a statement by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u32	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! We have a long debate ahead of us when we talk about the responsibility of the Minister for Finance and finally vote on the confidence. Something is certain already known that there will be a whole range of different readings on the one hand, on the other hand also the opposite answers, and that the Minister will also survive the interpretation. Nevertheless, I think that this is also a good opportunity to talk in particular about the work of that minister, who is certainly the Minister of the Department, who is the most difficult in this government, so it is no wonder that there is never too much of a storm around this ministry, as it is for any environmental minister. Also in the last formation of the government, we have noticed that at the very end of the entire set of names, a name for the finance minister has also emerged. For many then the only surprise was the name of Dr. Uroš Cuffer, unknown in the political field until then, the surprise also in this part that comes from the bank, the bank that we are most engaged in, or we will also be dealing with in the future, as the largest bank, where this bank hole is very large and we will deal with it in the future. Two key readings are recorded in the interpolation itself. The first relates to banking itself, the way in which the problem of Factor Banka and Probanka is solved and the disagreement with this controlled liquidation, while all deposits have been secured in this way over EUR 100,000 and the staff exchange of Mr Andrej Shirtzl's respected colleague. Let me immediately say, when we assessed this interpretation, we have assessed that human resources matters, although I can say once again that we appreciate Mr Shirtzl's expertise, do not belong to interpretation, do not judge either our own or the membership of the non-executive director of the bad bank or any chief of administrative unit, so we did not agree to sign such an interpretation. As for the first and key observation around the banking sector and the activities of both the Ministry of Finance, Banka Slovenije, the whole government associated with the loan guarantee or the operation of Factor Bank and Probanka, we welcomed for the first time in the Slovenian People's Party that finally someone in the Slovenian banking area decided to reach out to the banks themselves. We have been critical of the former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who, in our deep conviction, also bears a large part of the responsibility that the situation in banking today is as it is. With the arrival of the new governor, and apparently with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Finance, this intervention in the two banks that had the greatest threat to the stability of the banking system was taken. At that time, as I have already said, we welcomed the fact that you have entered these two banks, as well as the expectation that in this controlled liquidation, the bank sector will be completely rehabilitated in such a way that the causes of these bank holes are truly taken into account, and that all the means will be used to call those responsible to account, whether they are owners with different links between ownership, supervision and management of banks, whether they are bank administrations, whether they are supervisors or also those who have signed contracts as borrowers and in some way, we see, in these boutique banks for takeovers also many times, consciously counting on a long-term contract, drawing on these banks for large-scale acquisitions that have not been made. And the result is big bank holes today. I must say that we have experienced quite a bit of disappointment when, in our second contact with banking, when the Banking Act was before us, we have missed the opportunity to reach out to the Banking Act itself and to the part where we logically and quite rightly refer to banking secrecy on the one hand, to define what happens when this banking secrecy and bank transactions bring so far as to talk about either controlled liquidation, for which we will give the guarantee, which will also finance these gains from public money, or we will talk further about bad bank loans, where public money will also be used to repair these holes or to preserve the stability of the banking system and, on the other hand, to extend the economy. Our conviction is that there is still much work to be done in this area, and we share our dissatisfaction with the fact that we have missed this opportunity in this law, that we will now seriously consider this, strictly on this segment, as I have said, what with those responsible for this, either as bank subscribers or as borrowers, or as supervisors through the Bank of Slovenia. In this area, we still have a lot of work to do, and I believe that we will have to do this in order to ensure greater transparency, accountability, because if we do not do so, it is useless to talk about banking secrecy or trust in the banking system, because we see that in Slovenian banks the roles land and that taxpayers do not want to monitor in this way what is happening and in some way have the feeling that these transactions will be hidden under the carpet, which ultimately led to this public debt. At this point, I believe that trust in the banking sector, trust in the rule of law and in many, especially in younger generations, confidence in the future, faith in the Republic of Slovenia is being broken. That is why we, colleagues and colleagues, both those in the coalition, the opposition, as well as on the government side, in the Bank of Slovenia are really waiting for a thorough and sober reflection and we will radically have to cut into these matters if we are to stabilise these matters. In this part, we were also disturbed by the fact that in the second part of our amendment to the Banking Act, we were able to reach out to those who had deposits in banks or to invest money in the bank through these hybrid instruments than this subordinate debt. In this part, I understand that certain instructions have come and I think we have accepted them ourselves. I also share the view that we should probably have a blood count of Slovenian banks more thoroughly cleared and then decide what part of the burden will go to the owners of these subordinate bonds and, on the other hand, have a clear picture of the hole itself in the banking system. In this part, I think there has been a lot of populism or public deception in recent times, so it has been easy to hear that there is also a lot of Slovenian insurance money in these papers, that we are moving this bank financial hole into the insurance system, that there are pension funds in there, and that they are touching in some way, according to estimates of some of the quarter of Slovenes and Slovenes of these things that we have written there. In this part, once again, I say that we had a different approach where the roles of those who had more than 100,000 euros in two banks were protected and, on the other hand, we went to stock with the destruction of these deposits or subordinated debt. That's enough of that. Today is also an opportunity to talk about the financial field. The country, as we all know, is today in a deep financial and economic crisis. As I have already said, no joy or global challenge is to be a finance minister in the Republic of Slovenia. On the one hand, the Minister has this task in the banking sector, which is also the subject of this interpretation, in my opinion, partly under control, and we are even more under the control of international institutions. And this transition to a bad bank or the transfer of claims to a bad bank, the clearance of the banking system, the extension of Slovenian companies, at least the route is indicated, I hope that these deadlines, which are now announced, will also be realized and that this part of the great problem of the Republic of Slovenia will be resolved within the time limit and that the transition in 2014, when we at least talk about cleared Slovenian banks, will have a known number, know what costs us on the one hand, on the other, if we also need to change the legislation, will call those responsible. There are certainly many of these subjective responsibilities and various wrong decisions at this point, either with a desire to be greedy or later to save the skin when it was seen that this casino would not come out. In this part, I must say that we are assessing in the Slovenian People's Party that steps and the continuation of the policy of a bad bank are going in this direction, so the steps are taken. I think that we all have a much bigger problem together in this country because the basic doctrine of the government that we have now heard in the adoption of the key budgetary documents for 2014, 2015, and if you want, even when introducing the fiscal rule, the basic doctrine of the government is: we will keep the social state and cost as much as it wants. I think we have now shown very well in practice what we mean by "let it cost as much as it wants" when we went too far in debt and when we pay the price of this. Above all, I think that this economic component of the government, the economic policy, which is also certainly one of the key policies of the finance minister, is completely absent. I attach to what, I think, a lot of people have already said today, but also in recent days, that some other ministers in this government, who are responsible for this area, have probably hidden even more than the finance minister himself, and also some other things that they should not have. However, the key policy of the Minister of Finance is that it has the feeling that there will be enough inflows to the state budget in two, three years from this year to have this social state. I have marked this work myself as buying social peace for a few months and a major threat to the social state in the long run. Also, the fact that we are now borrowing credits that we are suspending in 2016 and that, despite the increasing indebtedness in the following year, this is said in 2015, even lower interest than in 2014, is due to this policy, which I think must be very clear and loudly said that policy is from hand to mouth, a policy that we will continue to pay enormous burdens of this debt in two years. And that is what I think it is right to clarify this matter today, too, so that we can agree on how we will proceed. As for the test stone we had and was already mentioned here today, the adoption of the fiscal rule in the Slovenian legal order was a matter of law. I myself actively participated there in this role that we all together managed this effort and assured this two-thirds majority that we had written a fiscal rule in the Slovenian Constitution, in the Slovenian legal order. I had imagined that the next day we would have a difficult work to do, to begin with the drafting of a law that would make this implementing law to enforce the fiscal rule, which is still ahead of us, is not yet in the light, despite the fact that we have set a deadline by the end of the year, that we will also confirm this law with a two-thirds majority, as we know. Above all, when we look together for creativity, how we will be fiscally sustainable, we will be the first to spend as much as we create in the years, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, so that we can all work together to figure out what we can afford. The government's policy, because, at the end of the day, the budget must also be signed by the Finance Minister in addition to the Prime Minister, is different. Let us calculate how much we need when we see and sum up these needs, and determine whether we have enough collected taxes or sign up for new taxes or increase the levels of existing taxes. And in this part, the Slovenian People's Party has great problems with the policy run by the Finance Minister. In this part, I think that even in the last active opposition to real estate tax, we have specifically warned and warned that the expectations of those who think, how much more tax can be extracted from the economy, from the population, from businesses, from craftsmen, from farmers, that simple expectations are too high, and that we are essentially cutting down on what we are sitting on. In this part, we give great insights to the government and also to the finance minister. As far as this policy is concerned, there is a large public financial deficit, on the other hand, we have this burden of reprogramming credits in the following year, I don't know, there is about three billion, a good billion public debt per budget, it is likely to be much more real, and the burden of transferring bad claims to a bad bank and thus the additional debt of the country. At this point, there is a key problem for us, which I think we are not confronting in the right way, and that this price for the social state, "let it cost as much as it wants", has led us to an impossible situation when we owe ourselves at very high interest rates. And this debt, which has now reached 23 in five years with 8 billion in five years, is likely to be rounded to 30 billion by the end of next year, at close to 90% of GDP there, after enormously expensive borrowing of Slovenian public finances into an unsustainable situation. I know that this is not only a decision by the Minister, which she publicly advocates, but the government has decided not to take an absolute approach to any mechanism that would ultimately ensure lower interest rates, and certainly, as was said in the talks with the Minister, a list of tasks, homework, which should be done. I am afraid that this list of domestic tasks to be done is in conflict with the doctrine and with the government policy that I mentioned earlier, "the social state should cost as much as it wants". I think that part of this burden in this area too, in the area of reducing public spending, will necessarily need to be done and that this is why we do not take this second step in order to make it easier to get out of this difficult situation by lowering the burden of debt. I am afraid that even after talking to the minister, we will find that it is in some way doubtful whether this reform part of the government will take place in the Republic of Slovenia after the banks have been rehabilitated, when we are also delving the Slovenian economy. Nothing will help us if we have sovereignty, indebted banks, costly debt, an indebted economy, but nothing to do about the efficiency of the public sector, anything to do about reforming different subsystems, from health, education, local self-government, an effective country and so on. In this part, too, today's positions presented by the coalition's parliamentary groups, as well as all the commitments made so far and the agreements signed, do not give me the optimism that this will happen in this country, which we all know must happen. Some of us say that out loud, we point out that, and then we get the criticism and the outspoken attacks from the bench, where the minister is now sitting, and especially the President of the Government. But I think it's that difficult part of the government of the country that's waiting for us if we want to admit it or not to admit it. The percentage or two higher interest rates, we all know what that means in personal debt and what it means in the country's debt, moving from 20 billion to 30 billion. We all know and we can calculate that 1% of 200 million is on an annual basis. 200 to 300 million with each percentage of the higher annual debt we will pay. At this point, the key question I have raised several times is that, with such interest rates as we owe us, we say, since the last about 5% of the last two debts, regardless of which government has committed itself, between 5% and 6%. In this context, we simply must not owe ourselves because the price of this money will be too expensive and no taxes will bring it through. On the other hand, there will be a problem that taxes will have to be increased and, you want to, you don't want, in the end, social rights, which is what the country is set up to do. At this point, once again, a call, respected colleagues and colleagues, to work in judgment. I think that the discussion on the fiscal rule and the real debate on the reform of subsystems, which lies ahead, after this work will be judged whether we will all do our work together or not. Just one case, because today's ministers were mentioned, they were intertwined. Question, Minister, why are we adopting laws that promise interest for the year ahead by 8.5%, as proposed by Minister Virant? In this part, I hope that there is enough wisdom in the expensive market as you now owe the poor 6%, you have 2.5 to 3% lower interest rates, in 70 million that is 2 to 3 million less interest in one year. So in this part, I hope that there will be some sense and that we will have less work to do in some other interpretation, where these insights can be even more serious and in the sky sob. As I said before, the economic component of this government. Opinions are shared as much as public investment or new-deal investments can help us get out of this crisis. There are certainly some projects where the work of the government should be more coordinated, as well as the cooperation and decisive role of the Ministry of Finance, in order to first draw on European money in a coordinated and better manner. This is a matter where your government will be judged in a month, two, when it will simply have to make an inventory, how much money available will be signed and how much will be realised. I know that this is not a key task of the Ministry of Finance, but I remember last year when we talked about overcommitments and these issues, how to relax, so that there will be more opportunities to talk about investment speeding up, that there will be obstacles to finance. But I think last year we've managed these obstacles. However, I am really interested in how you control and how you cooperate with the Minister of Economy and the Minister of the Environment, the infrastructure that continues the work we tried to do last year, and how much money will come into the country over the next two years, how much investment will be made from this title. We're talking about impact, I don't know, 2 to 4% of GDP. And if we know that the economy is around 6 to 7% in normal conditions, it is crucial whether we make this breakthrough in this sector or not. Therefore, in this part, it is also a key question to you how much has been accelerated by the Ministry of Finance in this area, because I think that colleagues in other areas have been concealed in this segment to some extent, especially in the Ministry of Economy, where the coordinating role is also needed, where the co-financing agreement is to be signed at the end, and with the Ministry of Investors to bring it to life. The next thing is, for my terms, too much restraint when even the European Investment Bank could be in charge of any of the projects that we all speak out loud about, and in fact, I think that some of them have quite a lot of compressed teeth as well as some other purpose, as well as frankly helping these projects. I'm thinking of investments on the bottom of Savi. We know that we have already started talks last year on a favourable EIB loan with which a cycle can continue. I know that there are a lot of reservations in many people, but I think that this is again one thing that gives us on the long run renewable resources, the investment cycle, flood protection, so I think it is worth supporting together with this activity, where there is also one of these activities in your ministry. Last year we discussed the programme as well as discussions with the EIB on the possibility of financing with long-term loans, with the most favourable interest rates, the promotion of flood protection in the Republic of Slovenia. 61 areas were identified. It was estimated that investments ranged from between 600 and 700 million and that this could once again be a new opportunity for a 5-year cycle in which two flies would kill at one stroke. For the first time, in order to proactively tackle flood protection with durable solutions, they have remedied what has been done and, on the other hand, through the reorganisation of management, addressed some of the problems that we have in Slovenia and brought into the country investment money for the start of the economy to a favourable extent through several long-term arrangements. I personally assess that today this interpretation, whose outcome of the vote is already known in advance, is, above all, an opportunity to talk about what we see in common, what we will need to do. The assessment of this work will certainly be different so far. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will continue to closely monitor this debate, we know that it is the task of the coalition to defend its ministers, so you certainly cannot expect our support today. However, with these constructive proposals, we would like to draw attention to what we think you are doing wrong, especially to the fact that you are the key minister of this government, who, in our deep conviction, does not have the right direction to come out of this crisis. And in this part, your responsibility is relatively great.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u34	Your Honor, hello! The rehabilitation of the banking system, which began with the controlled forcible liquidation of two private banks, Probank and the Bank Factor have already shown a number of irregularities in the initial phase and we can also say illegality. The Ministry of Finance shall be subject to the provision of an unlimited State guarantee for the controlled liquidation of Probanke d.d. and the Bank's Factor in the submitted interpretation. This happened before the stress test results were received. However, the burden of irresponsible and harmful conduct in these two private banks has been placed on the shoulders of taxpayers. That was our point of view, our point of view, when we were talking about the problem of the resolution of both banks, and even when we were talking about the amendment of the banking law. For this reason, Christian Democrats protest that the burden of poor governance and poor decisions in the banking system, in particular in private banks, is being placed on the shoulders of taxpayers. Those who had the power and decision-making capacity must be responsible for their decisions, these are members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of banks. And that's not what happened in the specific case of the closure of both banks. In his reply, the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Čufer, explicitly explained that the decision to liquidate both private banks was a joint decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia. And for starters, this decision was bad, harmful, especially illegal. The current Banking Act provides precisely when Banka Slovenije can, within its control, take a decision on compulsory liquidation and when the bank is bankrupt. In view of the fact that both banks were in liquidity difficulties, the appointment of an extraordinary administration should first be made, which would draw up a report on the situation in banks within a certain period, and the adoption of other measures available to the Bank of Slovenia. Also limit the height of the lifts. However, when it comes to bank insolvency, there is no legal basis for the enforcement process. There should be a bankruptcy. Since both banks, both Probank and Factor Bank, were ineligible and insolvent at the time of the adoption of the decision on compulsory liquidation, the decision on controlled compulsory liquidation was short and slightly illegal. The so-called Bad Bank Act also gives neither the Government nor the Minister the authority to adopt the measure as it has been chosen. Within this law, a State guarantee measure is envisaged to strengthen the stability of banks, but this measure is intended for banks that will remain on the market and not for those who leave the market. The fact is that the termination of both banks should be carried out in bankruptcy proceedings. The essence of the liquidation procedure is that all creditors are paid and that is why it is only possible to terminate one of the banks if all creditors are provided with funds in the bank’s assets. There were no such funds in both private banks. However, in agreement with the Governor of Banka Slovenije, the Minister of Finance has provided all the funds. I would like to stress that all the funds necessary to pay off all creditors are in place. With this, the minister protects 175 wealthy individuals who had deposits of over 100,000. To this end, a guarantee has been issued to both banks for an amount of up to EUR billion, with the fact that it is already clear that the missing funds for the payment of all creditors will actually be paid from the budget of over EUR 400 million, i.e. from the taxpayer's money. Not only illegally, but also in a very easy way, the minister spends tax money to rehabilitate two private banks, and on the other hand, he imposes taxes on properties that are highly squandered and taxed. We are convinced that each individual must also take responsibility for his or her actions — responsibility for the work he is doing. The highest officials in the country are particularly responsible, and this responsibility for their actions and decisions will also have to be taken by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer. The consequences of his actions, mainly due to the hiring of expensive loans, will also be borne by our grandchildren, I hope that in Slovenia alone. The bill will come for everyone. Even though he is likely to receive coalition support today, he does not yet have ours. Sins remain, and the consequences of such behavior are also bad for us taxpayers and 175 owners are extremely beneficial. Whether these owners will ever have house investigations conducted to divert attention, as they are today. Interestingly, for some, Slovenia has already been promised a country, as Mr Frangež had previously said, for at least 175 of these voters. But I don't know if Dr. Urosh Cuffer is the real culprit. But he's responsible. Or is he also a victim of government - related lobbying?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next debate is the reported mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. One of the most important light motives of this interpretation in addition to the resolution of the banking system is undoubtedly a major injustice, which has obviously occurred to Mr Andre Shirtz. I truly appreciate Mr Shirtzl, so I apologize to him for giving the most words to him and to his injustice. But given the SDS' belief as an extremely important thing, there is no way to avoid it. Let's see what kind of guilt he's been wronged. It's simple. Several times today it has been explained, for those who may not yet understand, Andrej Šircelj is a member of the National Assembly and, at the same time, has also been sitting in the position of the non-executive director of the so-called bad bank. And since Minister Uroš Cufer has prevented Mr Šircelj from still performing both very important functions, it is the SDS' belief that such a minister should be dismissed. And so many times it has been explained today that both the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Government's legal and regulatory services considered these two functions incompatible. SDS, I understand that, the subject of two opinions of the objection. He claims it's an illegal, illegal, political solution. If their arguments hold, then I wonder, I ask at least two questions. The first question is why the SDS did not actually require a mandatory interpretation in the National Assembly. Members have this option, but they have not done so until today. And the second question is why Mr Shircelj did not initiate an appropriate dispute against such a settlement. Mr. Shircel has that option. And I imagine that if he was solved illegally, it would be illegal for him to take all the legal remedies available to him to prove that the Government, as far as this is concerned, had wronged him or that it had solved him illegally. Finally, several procedures are under way against the National Assembly that have been resolved by the National Assembly and have initiated appropriate legal procedures against the National Assembly to prove their right. If all these arguments cited by the SDS in the interpretation are true, I do not see any obstacles to both the party and Mr Andrej Shircelj taking advantage of all the remedies available to him. Interpreters also argue that Mr Širecelj had no choice but to be informed that he had to choose one function. I would like Mr Shircelj to explain whether anyone has informed him. Even if he did not inform him, he well knew that these two functions were incompatible. I'll explain a few things further. Much today has also been referred to the law on the so - called bad bank, where this law has indeed been written in such a way that it corresponds to a specific person and a specific function. But given that it is indeed two, I consider them to be two important functions, the function of a Member and the role of a non-executive Director, I think because of the seriousness and responsibility, not only because of the legal dictatorships, but also because of the fact that an individual could choose one single function, or as a Member or as a non-executive director. I must say that I myself, as President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, have been quite a nuisance, because the journalists asked me daily how it could be that a Member could perform an important function at the same time as a non-executive director of a bad bank when he is also a member of the National Assembly and, in particular, there is no one who could have cut such a situation. Minister Cuffer is obviously based on legal opinions, not on some self-initiative desire, but as he himself has explained, and I have already said on the basis of the Commission's opinion on anti-corruption and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Of course, this issue has brought to the fore another problem that we have already pointed out when we adopt a law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks. So why was the law written in such a way that the replacement of members of the board of directors of the bad bank was very difficult and that the law doctrine was obviously written to someone on the skin. The law of not speaking in mind is defined as such. Notwithstanding the provisions of the law governing the integrity and prevention of corruption, non-executive directors of the Management Board of the Banking Company shall not be subject to the provisions of that law, which provide that a professional official may not be a member or engage in control or representation management activities in companies. That was the purpose of the writers of the law, and I think you can all make an impression on why it was written, as it was written. Given that so many words have been said about Mr Shirtz today, I believe that they will, perhaps, focus on just two little things from the interpretation. I have to say that I couldn't believe it when I read that important decisions at the Ministry of Finance and the Government are obviously taken late Friday afternoon or early evening. Can you think? Under such a claim, however, Members or parties who hold meetings of the National Assembly until the early morning of the following day shall be signed, so it is kind of said, for the first time it is funny that decisions are taken on Friday afternoon. And then what if you do? Secondly, it is offensive because this same party in this national assembly, as it were said, uses all maneuvers and speaks until the morning, which it also has the right to. I don't know if the Ministry of Finance and the Government have a deadline for decisions to be made from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., and then operating time is over and we're going home. If so, O.K. Then I would make a very well-intentioned proposal if we could do so in the National Assembly, because these sessions, which last until midnight, three in the morning and by half seven in the morning, are really unsustainable. And then one more thing. The SDS claims that Minister Cuffer's statements were that we had begun to rehabilitate the banks issued for the international public. Yes, indeed, there is a great difference between what messages are being sent to the international public by the current government and what messages are being sent by the SDS. The SDS reports to the international public that we are returning to communism in Slovenia, that in Slovenian schools children are photographed with wooden rifles and so on, that I do not continue. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is indeed sending messages to the world that we know that we can do it ourselves and that we will try to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The motioner, Mr. Chernač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you. One false claim must first be denied, or I believe it could have been made unintentionally. If you've noticed, it's not the central point of these perceptions that one of the four non-executive directors of the so-called bad bank is getting rid of, but everything else. In the introductory explanation, I devoted approximately 95% of my time to all other reasons and 2 to 3 minutes to 50 minutes of this resolution, which is not so insignificant. This resolution was illegal, so it's in interpolation. And today, in some way in response to the interpretation, this illegality was acknowledged by the minister himself when he said that a mag should be left behind. However, it is time for the Government to decide which of these two functions will be performed in accordance with the law. Of course, this does not burden him with responsibility in this resolution. I also said that not the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, not the Ministry of Finance, nor the government service are those who can interpret the provisions of the law, but it is only the National Assembly. That there is a vague provision, at least for some, it is also clear from your discussions today. Nor does it matter that this discharge took place exactly one week after a decision on the EUR 30 million of the State guarantee for two private banks was taken on Friday afternoon. Some other decisions were taken during this government's meeting on Friday. Let's say one of those that will significantly limit investment activity in the coming years is the extension of Nature. After all the governments so far have somehow fought for nature's issues to be settled in such a way that the expansion of the areas would not affect the infrastructure projects that we are planning for the future, this government, at some written meeting on Friday, interestingly, has accepted the extension of this Nature, with which it shot itself in the knee and moved many of the infrastructure projects a few years further. Who's responsible for the night sessions? I'm asking you nicely, but it's probably not the opposition that's responsible for this! It's probably your responsibility. Because you have authority in this country, you make decisions. If we attached the reasoned amendments that we tabled to this law, that meeting could be concluded within one hour, but you rejected all these proposals. And write down the responsibility for the duration of this session, which dealt with an inadequate, inappropriate property tax law, to yourself. Also on the other hand, as discussed by her colleague Župevcheveva, the Internet provides information. Today we're in digital electronic age, we don't have to report anything, it's all online. It's all online, both children with titons in schools and the Prime Minister who sings "evevivo el communismo" in the Stožice. It's all online. Nothing special has to be reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u40	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The Honourable Minister Dr. Chufer! I'll split my debate into three parts somehow. But in the beginning, I'd start with Probank and the Factor Bank. I personally assess that the decision taken by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia on Friday evening is likely to make the Slovenian public less familiar in certain parts. Why such a decision for a controlled liquidation? We have never received any substantial calculations from the Minister as to why controlled liquidation is better than bankruptcy. I expect the Minister to try to answer these questions today. He's got every chance to do that. In the second part, I estimate that the interpretation of controlled winding-up procedures has even led to public deception, because, through the debate, we have only heard that the European Commission has put a temporary solution to the controlled liquidation and that, after 45 days, this extraordinary administration, which has been appointed, has sent a liquidation plan to the European Commission. I am now interested in when you expect further steps by the European Commission, whether the European Commission has already made a decision and whether there is still a chance that these two banks will still be bankrupt and what this would mean for Slovenia. Very interesting or very important, and I hope that today the Minister will answer this question, is that the Ministry of Finance has invested over 100 million euro deposits in these two banks in May and June. Why did you decide to take such a step if we know that the auditors lit the red light on these two banks? The annual reports of both Probanks and Factor Bank show that there are two different auditors, and this is where the famous European audit houses, Deloitte and PWC, have written very similarly in their annual report. I'll read it to you. "The capital risk, the lack of business losses and lack of equity raise considerable doubts about the ability of Probanka and Factor Bank to continue as a functioning company." This is 26 April 2013. However, the Ministry of Finance deposited more than EUR 100 million of deposits in these two banks later. Do you not read the annual reports at the Ministry or why you decided to make this decision, which is likely to be very risky? Here I would expect an answer why you decided to deposit deposits in these two banks if the auditor turned on the red light. Why have you not already taken action in these parts and then taken measures both for Probank and for Factor Bank to wait until September, and how much less damage could it have been for taxpayers if we had acted six months earlier? In the discharge of a colleague of mags. I personally believe that this measure was illegal and that it is a political decision to a greater extent. Perhaps this date resolution coincides too much with all the facts surrounding the control of the liquidation of Probank and Factorbanka, but today we would have listened to the arguments of both the coalition and the minister, the Minister of Finance specifically asked why mag. Andrei Shirtzl, the non-executive director, did not invite him to his meeting and asked him, "You have a week of time, decide whether you will be a non-executive director or a Member". No, no, no. You solved it automatically, and I think it was an illegal case. I'd expect an answer why you didn't invite him or give him a chance to make his own decision. You've made your own move. About the debt. As much as the state has committed itself under your mandate, Secretary-General Chufer, this has not yet been under any minister. Above all, the high interest rates that we reach are worrying. The question for the minister would be why Slovenia is not using the ESM fund or commenting on the fact that, already under the rule of Dr. Franc Križanič, Slovenia has decided to invest EUR 342 million in this fund. Slovenia has paid this and today these benefits of this fund are not being used. Slovenia then entered into a contract with the predecessor of the ESM. Why? 342 million commitments will be paid by Slovenia to this fund and we owe it to third parties at significantly higher interest rates. The President of the Government explains that we do not need money, but we owe ourselves under a table in a closed market. I want to know why the debt at such high interest rates is waived by Benchmarks from all countries, comparable and uncomparable. Issue of bonds to one, not access to markets as they say. Why did you do that? I expect that during today's debate you will expose this lucky man, who you have given him such a high interest rate. I think we need to ask ourselves who is so crazy that a country of 1.5 billion euros is exposed to only one bidder. If you sell one without open market competition, I don't think you could at all test the interest rate Slovenia would achieve on the market. And it could probably be lower. Here will probably be the question of how the Court of Auditors will react. You're the one who took care of the table, what's the interest rate? I would only conclude with these words that this is not the behaviour of a country that is convinced that it can be in debt at any time and that it will solve problems on its own, but that this move was a characteristic of the behaviour of a country that is in great financial distress and urgently needs money. Otherwise, we can't imagine this thing. Dear Minister Chufer, I expect that we will have the answers to my questions, you have enough time, but I also expect you to tell us what this money will be earmarked for, or why the President of the Government says something, and you say something else. Who can we trust?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk is the next discusser.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Interpellation against the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer, was based only on two points. So it is obvious that there is confusion and a lack of burdensome evidence. Under the first point, they challenge the granting of a state guarantee for the controlled liquidation of Probanka and Factor Bank, while the second, they challenge the discharge of a Magi Member. Andrej Shirtzl from the position of non-executive director of the so-called bad bank. That one of the two grounds on which the applicants supported the intervention against the Finance Minister is the discharge of the Member from the position of the non-executive director of the financial company is, however, politically unhygienic. As soon as he is the secretary of state and the non-executive director of mags. Shirtzelj has once again served as a Member of the National Assembly, should resign as Director, or should either say good-bye to the Member of the Parliament. It is not appropriate to discuss this point, but in the absence of an argument, the proponents used the old truth to force the devil to eat flies. So much for point two. With regard to the 1st point on Probank and Factor Bank, we held a thorough eight-hour debate at the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 20 September this year, when the same candidates again requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly entitled Proposal for a Recommendation on the Problem of Resolution of Private Banks Probanke and Factor Bank with the money of Slovenian citizens. In a few months, two identical debates and two identical references to the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. When I examined the material for both sessions in more detail, I found that it was practically the only novelty that the Slovenian Democratic Party Members and Members at that time discovered that Forum 21 had been included in the official communication material against the Finance Minister. At the September extraordinary meeting Forum 21 appeared only after five hours and 15 minutes of discussion, when Member Shircelj said, quote: "I have read, Mr Meh, that you are the founding member of Forum 21 of 2004, I see nothing wrong in this." End of quote. This time Forum 21 was even located in an elite place in the interpretation and building of interpolation. What can I say? It is, therefore, not an expert debate, but a political debate with the coalition and the minister and an obstacle to the normal work of the government and the National Assembly. In September we spent one whole working day on the debate, today on the same matter 16 hours and 20 minutes of the forecast time for the debate, last week you spent 13 hours just explaining at one point in the agenda, at a night meeting and in the morning. Respectable, if Probank and Factor Bank went bankrupt and not into a controlled liquidation, the bankruptcy could result in panic in the banking market. The information of the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije was very eloquent that deposits in Slovenian banks decreased by as much as half a billion euros during the banking crisis in Cyprus in 14 days. The massive withdrawal of money from bank accounts at all banks in Slovenia could result in a final bank failure in the country. Of course, that's not what anyone wants. At the September session, both Dr. Chufer and the Governor, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, convinced me, especially when the Governor stated that criticism of the measure of controlled liquidation had not been resolved until Monday afternoon, when it was clear that there was no panic among the savers. It is also true that both options, controlled liquidation and bankruptcy of the bank are poor and that the Bank of Slovenia has chosen a less poor option. It is therefore right for all those who are called upon to do so to demand the personal responsibility of all those who have caused a bad situation in the Slovenian banking system. For a large part of the crisis, which we have been in for five years, it is the greed of the work of the Slovenian elite, from managers, bankers, lawyers and politicians as well as many other spheres and segments of our society. Today, for part of these mistakes of Slovenian society blame the Finance Minister Dr. Chufer, it is, in a mild sense, incorrect. Otherwise, I am glad that the government will experience a confidant for the second time in the National Assembly in a bad week. I will vote against the dismissal of Minister Uros Chufer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please. Yeah, just a minute. Here you are, Mr. Blackach, on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to start answering the obvious slowly. So far, we've listened to a little bit of those answers that aren't in response to interpolation. But we have not heard any reply, and I can see that he still has two hours of full unused time that he has reported. And I'm going to repeat the questions again because there's no other way. Now I don't know if he's deliberately overhearing these questions or he doesn't want to answer whether he wants to answer in the way that I read in that interview with a journalist in one of the Echoes. We want these answers because I think they are important because they talk about why his actions were what they were. What the predecessor said — that is what we are talking about in this interpretation. If his speech were justified or true, and if he really wanted to help in making this greed, as he said, the Slovenian banking elites stopped and that those who had "accepted" uglyly, which was a large part of our common property, were responsible for this once, and that they also lost property that was still intact, then I would support such conclusions that were proposed at the 20th meeting. 9. 2013 as arguments for poor decisions in the case of two private banks and on the basis of this talk about the proposal for the discharge of the Minister of Finance. To date, neither the Minister of Finance nor any of the government's responsible representatives have told which one of these banking-political tycoons – I cannot help it if they belong on the Kučan Forum 21, there are names written there, and these are the people. That's right, Mr. Bevk. We can't hide it, that's right. Which of these people who have received not 100,000 euros of unsecured loans, millions of euros of unsecured loans that have not been returned, have these loans been repaid? Which one was the property confiscated or at least frozen? There's a few of them. But these are the more peripheral fish, the ones that are more for throwing sand in the public's eyes, what the police are doing today with these investigations. Until we know this, and on the other hand, see, in May, the finance minister will have an additional EUR 110 million in these two private banks of state deposits to extend the lives of these banks by improving their liquidity, and in two months, one of the major owners will be paying EUR 6.9 million dividends. [[…]] That's what we're talking about today. On the basis of this decision and on the basis of the extension of life to these two banks, the Minister’s decision enabled this bank-political tycoon to pay these dividends. Why didn't he put them in this bank if he owned this bank? The first is responsible for this property, in good and bad. And there are no such answers. They're gone. We understand that you are embarrassed that you are uncomfortable, that some besides having to listen to church bells, have to listen to this in this national assembly and are completely nervous, but, look, ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem of this government and also of this minister. It was our intention to point out that public finances are not protected in this way, but that they are weakened in this way. The question raised in the interpretation was why this happened. What was the argument of the Minister of Finance in May this year, following the fact that the country owed $3 billion and a half of US dollars at a 6% interest rate, that one part of this money was paid to two private banks at a substantially lower rate to ensure liquidity and extend their lives, while on the table it had revised annual reports, as previously mentioned by counterpart Pogačnik, who said that the banks had matured to dry up. Why did he not then follow the recommendation of the European institutions that such banks should be removed from the market, why not until September? There is no answer to these questions. There is no answer to these questions and there is no answer to the question which of these directors, members of administrations, members of the supervisory boards, presidents of the supervisory boards, at least assets have been frozen for the purpose of granting these friendly loans. Of course, this second part of the Minister is not directly responsible, but is responsible indirectly, because this extension of life allowed these two banks to make these payments even after there was no need to do so again. This additional contribution, from 209 million 400 thousand to 318 million, was, in our opinion, essential to prolonging the operation of these two banks. During this interim period, all those who knew very well what the situation in these two banks was, in particular those who were part of a narrow circle of loan recipients, investors and so on, could take care of the collateral of their own assets, not of those two banks which had further exhausted and left the skeleton on the shoulders of the State. In public today, some of the phone records of the detained Tomaž Lovšet, who is talking to Alexander Dibelius, I think it's Mr. J. P.Morgan, where this gentleman refers to the Minister of Finance regarding the impact on individual banks, in order to extend the credit arrangements to Mercator and thus facilitate the process of the intention of Agrokor to take over. There is a mention of the Minister of Finance in these hearings, I think Mr Crnjac is mentioned as a member of the Agrokor administration, and some others. The question is direct to the Minister, whether he has ever spoken to these gentlemen, it is said to Mr Dibelius, Mr Lovšet, Mr Crnjac, to the individual directors responsible in individual Slovenian and foreign banks on this issue, the question of Mercator, as well as other issues which are in one way or another linked to the stability of our financial or banking system. And last but not least, we did not get an answer to the question of who is the buyer of a thousand 500 million bond worth of almost 5% interest. In three years, taxpayers will pay more than €200 million in interest on these bonds alone. Who is the buyer of this bond? How has this decision been taken to ensure that this issue takes place in a closed circle in order to allow only one purchase? Is it true that he already got a discount of €6 million when he bought it? It is said that he cashed EUR 6 million at the moment he bought this bond. How much were the fees for issuing this bond and so on? These are all questions related to the questions that we are asking in the interpretation and there are no answers to them. All the rest of what you're talking about, excuse me, are some populist demagogic debates, which will not reduce our public debt by a single cent, and above all will not reduce our interest rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u45	A replica? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I have called on all those who have been called upon to do so today as well as at the September session to demand the personal responsibility of those who have seized our bank's financial system. It's nothing new. Today, too, investigations are under way, we were able to read to the STA how, say, in the holding of the Slovenian Power Plants, as well as two months ago, investigations were conducted in September with the leaders of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank, as well as investigations between September and November, and several trials have already been successfully completed. Some were also convicted. I don't think that because of these extraordinary meetings you're convening, our judicial system will be any more effective unless you want to use political convictions to get someone to jail. I think that's what the bodies investigating these incompetences are called for. I hope that they will be effective in their work, but this will certainly not be done by the extraordinary sessions you have been citing almost every month as a follow-up to the current tape.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač, please, on behalf of the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u48	I have to say that after seeing what's going on, I've done some online digging, and I have to disappoint my respectable colleague. These film-directed investigations since 20. There hasn't been a 9th until today. There could have been others, but they weren't media-supported. So much for what it's all about. I don't think people are naive anymore, that they don't understand what's going on in this country and what we can all worry about very much. Something similar was happening during your government when Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, was Minister of the Interior, when we also monitored such film actions, most of which were not very effective. Rather, they were directed at those who had become disturbed for such or other reasons. I must say that I would not be surprised, either, if there is a film action with Mr Jankovic within a few months. He's no longer a problem for you to sacrifice. He's done his part. So it is likely that one of the scapegoats on this altar will be the additional plundering of the country, which will take place smoothly in the background. Why did we propose to discuss interpolation? I initially said in an additional explanation that all the conclusions that Mr Bevk also spoke about were rejected at this meeting on 20 September on your part. Everybody. All that has been proposed, which would to some extent improve at least the transparency and transparency of these inappropriate procedures in Probank and Factor Bank and show the heads that have taken advantage of this, all of this has been rejected. Even the conclusion was rejected to draw up appropriate legislation, although I think we already have it, but it is obvious that someone does not want to enforce it, which would freeze the assets of all those involved in these processes until it is investigated whether they acted in the right way or did not act accordingly. And to this day, I still haven't received an answer when we talk so much about who has been processed so far, which of the bank directors, the bank owners, those for whom taxpayers will now have to guarantee a billion EUR 30 million, has been processed or is still in existence. Which one? None. Not one. And we look at their work at every step. The reports we read publicly show that some dedicated individuals received loans of not more than a few thousand euros, over a few ten million euros, on the basis of a phone call without any insurance. And all of these benefits are supported by the current Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, by the means of proposing rehabilitation and public guarantee in two private banks of EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Now it's really the turn of the magician. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and to all present! According to the SDS Group, Minister Chufer has two major sins. The first is that he gave the state guarantee for the controlled liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank and the second, the suspension of SDS mags. It's spreading from the position he took in the DUTB. As regards the rescue of Probank and Factor Bank, it is necessary to say at the outset that the measures implemented so far were not intended to rescue two smaller private banks, but mainly aimed at stabilising and maintaining the credibility of the entire Slovenian banking system. In order to solve the problems, Banka Slovenije and the Ministry of Finance had two options, as has been said several times before, or bankruptcy or controlled liquidation. The ones in charge just decided on the last one. Whether that's right or wrong, the spears broke both in the profession and in politics. That this decision was reasonable and wise, it also showed time. The most important goal has been achieved and Slovenia also has a stronger banking system today because of this decision than it had six months ago. We can say that the start of the controlled liquidation of these two banks was in one way the start of the final settlement with irregularities and imbalances in the Slovenian banking sector, which was finally triggered by Governor Jazbec and Minister Chufer. We've been talking about the resolution of the banking system for years. A year and a half have passed, which was written the first letter of the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks. But when someone wants to do something in particular, they find pollen under their feet for a bad and long winter. The fundamental issue in relation to the resolution of these two banks is not how to solve them, but how these two small private banks can account for €680 million in state deposits and municipalities and state-owned enterprises. Indeed, there are many questions and too few answers today in the area of banking. However, one thing is true, Minister Cuffer has been in charge of the Ministry of Finance for only seven months and it is difficult for him to attribute responsibility for the past mistakes of many governments, ministers, governors and Members. Where were the warnings given by today’s proponents in the years when this bank hole arose? In general, I think you SDS Members are a little confused about banking these things. Why? While in some cases you defend the rights of the owners of subordinated bonds, you have asked the Factor Bank and Probank to include deposits in the resolution of the banks. You get the feeling that you're adapting your standards to the bank, given the current political situation. In view of the fact that some of you were also Members at the time of the irregularities, please tell us who, on behalf of the State, was risking tax money in these two banks, and who was the one who did not seem to be in dispute or either out of interest or out of fear looking in the other direction. Then it appears to Minister Cuffer that he was a magician. Shircelj from DUTB unlawfully removed because it is intended to publicly oppose the injury of Slovenian taxpayers. Lawlessness in Slovenia is still determined by the courts and not by the SDS party, but thank God not by any other party. Is it right for the same person to occupy the function of a Member and also a leading role in one of the most important public services? It's not right. Dear opposition, I really think you've lost your compass in the last few weeks. One part of the opposition introduced a law in the previous week, after which a Member should not be a member of the council of local communities, because it is decided not to mention who will serve the village road or when the meeting of the elderly will take place. On the other hand, the second part of the opposition is now an interpolation where there should be no problem if the Member acts as a Member and could also be a non-executive director of such an important company, the first to be responsible for the resolution of the banking system, which is one of Slovenia's key tasks during the transitional period. So these sins, which are revealed to Minister Cuffer, I think in both of these cases he's done reasonably and fairly, and that's why I won't support the interpretation. I think the role of Finance Minister at this time is one of the most responsible jobs in our country, for which, to be honest, we don't even have many candidates who would like to wear the shoes of a finance minister. That is why I think that Mr. Chufer needs our support in particular and not throwing pollen under his feet. Of course, I also expect that the full start of the bad bank will not be postponed to a new season, that privatisation will not be postponed to a new year, and it also has my support because I know that it does not believe in the prosperity of credit, and that it also realizes that we will sleep in the long term as we will sleep alone. It is true, however, that those necessary structural reforms must be done more decisively and quickly. I believe Minister Chufer can do this, and that's why I'm going to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. First, we have a procedural proposal. Mr. Blackach, then Mr. Tanko. Mr. Chernač, please, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u52	On the part of Mrs Hočevar, it was said that the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, should also be supported because we do not have many candidates in Slovenia to wear the shoes of the Minister of Finance. To one very good finance minister, Dr. Janez Šuštaršič, you took off these shoes for a city in a new coalition. So much for that. Responsibility for past mistakes and why we did not speak before was said. I don't think I do, and everyone else has said when to start the process of repairing the banking system. Even today. In the spring of 2009, we proposed to the Pahor government the establishment of a so-called bad bank. And if that were to happen then today Slovenia would certainly not be in such a complicated public financial situation as it is. Even if not a large part of the current coalition, the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats did not strongly oppose this solution last summer, which was proposed by then's Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, and the other Janša government, and if we did not do everything to prevent the implementation of these solutions, so that the withdrawal or establishment of the bank was delayed this year, then perhaps today Slovenia would be in a different position than it is. But we are where we are today, and we are talking about the current Minister of Finance, who is not making a decision that would strengthen both the stability of the banking system and the stability of the public financial system, but the decisions that are going in the opposite direction. It was said that this decision was important to preserve the credibility of the entire Slovenian banking system and that, on the basis of this decision, the citizens guarantee the private owners of two private banks worth €30 million, a stronger banking system than it was six months ago. Not one, not the other. The data available show that the credit crunch is still an extremely big problem and that this recovery has not yet been initiated after the content and that this procedure in these two banks has not helped to begin the real rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. We also say why not until September if the minister had information on the April table that these two banks should be closed. Why did he not then propose such a decision or a different one? Why did he charge them with over 100 million euros of state money in May to keep them operational? Why? There are no answers to these questions. We are not talking about the fact that when something is to be done, it must be prevented, we are talking about the need to take those measures that need to be taken to ensure the stability of the banking system in such a way that the burdens to be borne by private bank owners are not borne by taxpayers to an extent that is not necessary. And this measure was significantly exceeded in the case of these two banks. The Minister spoke of EUR 400 million of these deposits in these two banks, not EUR 680 million. About EUR 400 million, but he did not explain where the 80 million is from the 320 we are talking about. Or do we not have reliable data here as well? Perhaps Mrs. Hotchevar has reliable information. And is the question for the Minister – has this share of NLB, NKBM, and thus continued to increase in these two banks after May? Did that really happen? If this has indeed happened, then it is an even greater scandal and requires an even greater responsibility of the minister. With regard to the discharge of one of the four non-executive directors. This is not a leading function in the bank. Non-executive directors have nothing to do with the operation of a bad bank. Nor is it a function that could be directly compared to that of the Supervisory Board in the company. For this reason, we have pointed out that the law in this case regarding specific discharge has not been respected. And for the time being, there is a law in this country that must be respected. The court can't dismiss him, either, even though sometimes that happens to us. But in the final incantation, such judgments will be carried out. The law should give Mr Shirtzl an opportunity, which the Minister has also admitted today to decide on one of the two tasks he is carrying out. He did not have this option, which is why this discharge was carried out contrary to the law in force. For her in the way she was done, there is no basis in marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In the last five hours, there have been many views from the groups of Members, in fact, all the groups have presented their views, several debates have been held, many questions have been raised, and in five hours the Minister has failed to spend a second responding not to the views of the groups of Members and not to the debates of Members. This escape of the Minister from the Chamber and back poses a particular problem because we are talking about the Minister's interpretation. Now we don't have any running training on the Ljubljana marathon, but we do have a debate on his interpretation, his responsibility, and there are no answers. If you do not think the location of the debate is appropriate, we can move to Gregorčičeva or Župančičeva and continue the meeting there. But if we're talking about the Minister's interpretation, I suggest the Minister is here because someone else probably won't answer, because they can't, because we're talking about his person. And if he wants to answer, then he has to be here. I therefore propose that you, Madam President, ensure the presence of the Minister and the Minister's active responses. Otherwise, I don't know why he announced two hours to answer if he doesn't answer and he's not even here. These bad habits in this government coalition are too much. And every time, dear colleague, if there is an excessive absence of a minister, I suggest you stop the meeting if the Minister is absent too long. I know that sometimes we have to go somewhere, we already know that, but don't overdo it. If you're gonna take a look at the cameras right now, how long Mr. Secretary's been here, he hasn't been here for a third of his time. I propose that you provide appropriate conditions for the work of the National Assembly in order to ensure the presence of the person to whom this item is intended and to ensure that the person gives the correct answers, in due time, to the questions raised. Otherwise, everything else is a hole, just like the budget, all porous to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Mr. Minister may report to the debate at any time. But I also know that he is present all the time in the National Assembly and can come to the hall whenever necessary. I also think that Mr Minister will continue to answer your questions during the day and answer your questions. I'm sure of it. That's the answer to your procedural proposal. I'm giving the replica word mag. Katarina Hotchevar, who will replicate Mr. Chernač. Here you are, Mr. Tanko, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Once again, Madam President, you have said that the Minister will continue to speak. The minister hasn't said a word yet! He hasn't answered yet! You can't comment on this now so much that he'll call if he hasn't called in yet. He will if someone catches him here to stay. Otherwise, I find it very difficult to argue all the things that have been said here by the representative of the proponents and others we have spoken about. It is not explained why the additional EUR 100 million were given to these two banks in May, despite the poor audit certificates. On purpose, after an accident or something?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u57	Procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u58	Madam President, I propose that you ensure before anything goes on in this Chamber that we receive at least the answers to the first five or six hours of debate. You can laugh, Madam Secretary of State, that's interesting, isn't it, but answers need to be given. And if the government doesn't have answers, then it's wise to say that we don't keep doing this because obviously there aren't enough answers, they're just bad acts. I suggest you make sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. As I have already said, Mr. Secretary can speak to you at any time. Procedural has a word. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u60	President-in-Office, on behalf of our Group of Members, Positive Slovenia, I object to Mr Tanko re-abusing procedural issues in order to discuss, deal with representatives of the Government and so on. Mr Tanko, if we knew the rules of procedure, we would know that Minister Chufer has an opportunity to explain the answer to the interpretation in this interpretation. For the answer was in writing, and apparently as an intelligent person, he felt that everything that had been said so far was nothing new and nothing different from what had already been given in the written reply. However, if your client in good old manner has been charging back and forth since 1964 with everything that has been going on in this country, then please do not force the Minister to answer. And I don't know what you're asking the president to do. My procedural proposal is that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure or force the Presidents and representatives of the Government into actions that do not involve them or are not necessary under the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Cuffer will decide when to respond. And yet we are condemned here for mercy and mercy, we are committed to the SDS to harass us again by late-night hours, and you allow us to decide within this when we must answer and when not. President, I support you not to sit on these procedural proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I think that we will be able to keep the Rules of Procedure until the end of today as well as the other days. Now I'd give the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar, who has a replica of Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u62	Dear fellow Member, in my debate I have said what I think is right, and as far as I see things and can think. But I forgot to tell you something else why I believe that controlled liquidation was the right and wise decision of Minister Cuffer, as I have expressed myself. Also because that's how he gave me Dr. Schultz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u63	Mr. Branko Ficko, please. Mr. Branko Ficko, you'll have one moment to wait. The minister came forward earlier, and I didn't notice him. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you. Maybe first things first about the bank and Probank. First of all, I can point out that we weren't saving these two banks, we were looking for a way to shut them down. You can do it louder. We were not solving these two banks, we were looking for a way to shut them down, how to shut them down, how the economy has as little damage as possible and how as much as possible of what is called "burden sharing" in the European Commission, it is said that the existing holders of subordinated liabilities, bonds and other subordinated securities bear as much of the closure costs as possible and that the part of the cost borne by the State is minimised. I look at Probank and Factor Bank like two skeletons fell from my closet into my arms. And not just me, but also the new governor, Bostian Jazbec, this thing actually happened. When we came to the office on the first day of the transfer, I did not meet with the finance minister, the Secretary of State mag made me the pre-delivery job. Andrey Shircelj. And there was no word in the transmission that Probank and Factor Bank were a major systemic problem. In those two banks there were about 200 million deposits at the time. I'd much rather see that this wouldn't be my problem, that this thing would be taken away from the table, saved before I came, and I wouldn't have to deal with it. And unfortunately, it was on my desk, like a lot of other things that I have to deal with. If we look at the details of the action. I think we had an extraordinary session here that lasted all day, and you know that the powers concerning closure, rescue and other activities in the banking system are shared between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia. At the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Governor of the Central Bank, who presented the details, was also present, I think he answered all the questions raised by him in his field, and I also answered all the questions in my field, so I think that there is no question left unanswered. Of course, we can also repeat some answers, certainly, but I think we have explained everything at the time. Nevertheless, it is possible that today the problem has been repeatedly exposed and the dilemma between controlled liquidation and bankruptcy is that the three main reasons why the planned liquidation is significantly better than bankruptcy. The first reason is that the estimates already presented by the Governor of Banka Slovenije at an extraordinary meeting, and he also explained them on 20 September, have shown that actually controlled liquidation is cheaper than bankruptcy. The second argument that, at the time of the credit crunch, if we went bankrupt, regardless of the fact that these two banks were small and have a total of 5 % of the market share on the credit side and on the deposit side, which would have been blocked until the bankruptcy was completed and additionally substantial, significantly deepened the credit crunch and would have prevented a large number of small enterprises from doing business in a normal way, could have triggered a whole package of defaults and insolvencys that would have been transferred through the system between the undertaking and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] And the third element, which is very strong, why controlled liquidation is better than bankruptcy, is financial stability. [[...]] We cannot view these two banks as being completely excluded from the entire system, that they have no impact on any other bank where at this point the banks are just as weak for a very simple reason, because we did not have the opportunity to recapitalise banks first, transfer the claim from banks to a bad bank and then do stress tests and review claims, which would be significantly more favourable and more normal to do so. These are the three arguments that have completely weighed all the remaining concerns and questions. And also as regards the story of detection or reporting to law enforcement authorities and the making of complaints. I think the Governor himself said at an extraordinary meeting that 62 applications and 6 applications were made in Banka Slovenije only for the two banks on 20 September. I am also convinced, given the data in the media, that further applications have been made after this period, so that this part is also taking place. The supervised liquidation shall in no way cover, cover or limit the pursuit and investigation of the competent authorities in order to carry out their work. There is no difference between bankruptcy and controlled liquidation. I am sure that if we had done otherwise and if we had not done the controlled liquidation, but had done the bankruptcy, I would have also been sitting here today, just as the interpretation would have been, only with the question of why I did not do everything in order to prevent a great deal of panic on the market and a great deal of economic damage within my powers. In such a case, it would be significantly harder to find arguments why I did not do what I think I have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you. I'm afraid there are still no answers, Your Honor. They're gone. I'm sorry. I think we have enough time to come up with these answers. Enough, too. And when you talk about time being too much. That's why there's too much of him because there's no answers. We ask questions, we ask questions, we don't get answers. The minister said that he was not dealing with how these two banks should be rehabilitated, but how to lock them up so that it would be as damaging to the economy as possible. We all agree with that. And those two skeletons fell out of the closet. By April, some meats were probably on them, and on September 6th they were probably already quite hungry. But you were the minister in the middle. And there's no answer to the question why these two skeletons, which you knew were skeletons, received your additional 108 million 900 thousand in May. Why if they had to be locked up? This should then be done as soon as possible and the owners of these banks and those responsible for the situation in these banks should be drawn to this responsibility, or they should wait for a comprehensive approach to the resolution of the banking system within the framework of a bad bank. Only these two scenarios are cost-effective, possible, only these two scenarios are the ones expected from the Minister of Finance. There is no answer now whether the number 400 million is that of the country's deposits and the municipalities and state-owned enterprises and the others in these two banks, or whether it is that referred to by Mrs Hočevar, EUR 680 million. What's the right number now? Did this country's deposit in these two banks increase from these millions of euro in May if it is estimated that they should be closed? The Minister said that the decision for this procedure for controlled liquidation was so because it was found to be cheaper. In his reply, he wanted to substantiate this claim with a few more words. But nowhere today or in response to any numbers, no comparisons. None. The Minister has all the data, he must have it, otherwise this decision would not have occurred, at least that's how I imagine it, for a billion EUR 30 million of the state guarantee, on the one hand controlled liquidation, for what it costs us, and on the other hand bankruptcy. And that's what we're asking today, about very clear numbers. According to our calculations, the second process would be cheaper because those with deposits of more than 100,000 euros would not be protected. But the question is, is that what this is all about? There's probably something else. At the very least, the procedure would be more costly because of the actions of the Minister of Finance himself, who increased after an unnecessary state deposit in that bank and would then lose more because the deposit was too much. But this question concerns the current minister, not any previous minister. Not the government and not the Bank of Slovenia. It was said that this decision was taken in this way because companies have a problem with access to financial resources, credit crunches are still ongoing. And now I'm asking you, do they have six? 9. any less problems with that or even more? How many companies have gone bankrupt in recent months because they do not have adequate accessibility – including those with jobs, markets and who could survive? What was that really done there for everyone else? Nothing, nothing. In the area of the stability of the banking system and the prevention of credit crunch, this procedure did not affect this. With regard to financial stability and the fact that people would now go to banks for deposits because of these two banks, most of them didn't even know what it was. I said that a lot of people didn't even know, but they didn't have more than 100,000 euros. Most of these people did not have more than 100,000 euros in banks, and most people do not have more than 100,000 euros in banks. Not in other banks, either. And all these people know that under the law these deposits are up to 100,000 euros secure. It's a question of responsibility. It was said that, as a result of this procedure, the exercise of responsibility towards these owners, members of the administrations, the supervisory boards would not be reduced. Really? What's been going on since 6. 9th to this day done at this point? Did any of these co-owners respond in any way or do some still pay even good wages within these two otherwise functioning banks? Did the one who paid off the dividends, one of the major owners, have any of this property cut? It wasn't. So there are no answers, no arguments. They're gone. And there are no answers to all the other questions that have arisen in connection with this. We owe ourselves enormously high interest rates because of such ways and decisions. Let me tell you again. EUR 12.3 billion additional debt and guarantees in 2014 and 2015. Only in these two years. If the former country owed 20 million US dollars to 20 million people and went bankrupt, what would happen to this country, which is in debt one and a half times as many as ten times the number of inhabitants? These are the questions that have arisen and there are no answers. What happens when all these big loans have to be repaid? Where are we gonna get this back? What's this receipt? I hope that I will not get the answer we received in the past at other levels when someone said, no problem, because we will still take or issue additional bonds for interest on new loans. That's how this country works right now. But this spiral will end one day. And in this connection, there is no answer to the question of who bought this billion-and-a-half bond at this high interest rate, almost 5%, is it true that he got EUR 6 million discount, what the commission costs in this issue were for who did these things. There are no answers to questions whether Dr. Uroš Cuffer was directly or indirectly involved in what we read in these hearings, Alex Dibelius, Lovše, members of the Agrocor administration, Bank Koper and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you. Although I would say that I have no sense that this is an interpretation, it is a more politically-mounted process following the mandate of a polytburo or a CK. But above all, I see it as manipulation, the perpetuation of guilt to another. Why are we here with banks and the economy? Due to mistakes in the past, especially in the period 2006-2008 as well as 2009. All those bank deposits of enormous lending, regardless of the role of the non-bank sector. And control was possible, either through Banka Slovenije and also through other organs. But now we're here where we are, and that's our common burden. About the Factor Bank and Probank and who was there. He was also Rigelnik, and he was also Glaser, but there were others. They were Scorches, they were Bavčars, they were the Archbishop of Maribor, and they were different individuals across straw companies. The story of Shrota, when he took a loan of EUR 11 million in connection with Telekom and the Albanian businessman in 2006, bought a brewery in Kosovo, in 2010, the value of the Kosovo brewery was zero, and the 11 million euro already went through Kosovo and the remaining hole in Slovenia. The story of the Maribor archdiocese associated with the offshore investment fund Zvon 1, together with Factor Banka and Probanka, all with the goal of the nobility of capital, all at the expense of Slovenian banks with investments from Croatia to Argentina, Cyprus and so on. The result is, of course, negative at the size of a billion large holes. Christian Democrats, too, your contribution from the past is recorded, and I hope that that statement by Pope Francis will also oblige that money is no longer entrusted to clerics. Now the government has finally begun resolution procedures for the banking system, and has sought the least painful among the poor solutions, this programme of controlled liquidation. When you talk about the way in which the tax money is handled, you point out that it is not about solving or cleaning wrong decisions, but only about discrediting and maligning the measures of the current government and not trusting in the Slovenian banking system. Of course, the most important is political promotion. The most important thing for the state and citizens is that the rescue process has begun, of course, again in the interest of the economy. The action is by the authorities and supervisors, and in particular the matter is in line with the European institutions. I would like to propose to you, the proponents, that it would be more productive for you to acknowledge your contribution to mistakes in the past, without political processes following the task of the CK, and to direct your negative experiences from the past to positive Slovenia, but you do not need a party, and that you support Minister Cuffer to correct your mistakes as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Ficko. Ms Leila Hercegovac is next, then Daniel Krivec and then Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u70	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who knows me well knows that I work better than a doctor and as an MP than I do. But sometimes there is something to be said in this House. Yes, it is, Joseph Jerovšek, because today's newspaper says that when you don't talk, it's a minute of culture. Well, why are we here today? For those who watch us on TV, it is good to say that today we have an interpellation against Minister Chufer and directly against the government. For me, this is a passport, because the trustee has been voted on to the government and was bound by the most important document adopted in the National Assembly, this is the budget for 2014 and 2015. But for those watching us in front of television, it is good to say that Article 118 of the RS Constitution stipulates that interpretation is legitimate and the opposition can always trigger it, but that this is a parliamentary term that sets out the institution of parliamentary control over the functioning of the government and the functioning of certain ministers. In doing so, the opposition wants to influence the executive branch with its constructive proposals and cooperation. The Institute of Interpellation is similar to the Institute of Referendum. Both are a mechanism of control and, in fact, an expression of democracy. But what happens in our national council? He starts to abuse himself for political purposes and undermine the ruling coalition. The argument with which we clearly ask and explain the question which is the subject of interpretation is two points. The first is the banks and the second is the resignation of Mr Andre Shirtzl, a respected colleague. You know I'm not going to discuss banks because it's not my area, but Probank and Factor Bank are arranged as it should have been. I assure you from this city that I have listened personally to my ears in Brussels, that this is done in agreement with the European Union. That means neither the minister nor the government did just that, but they consulted and did what they had to do. That's why I understand that first observation as actually obstructing the government. But as for the second point, if you ask me, I don't think it should be in the interpolation at all, because it doesn't belong in the interpolation point. Why did the distinguished Mr Andrej Shircelj allow the second point of interpolation to be precisely he, I don't know, will probably respond to that. But if I were him, I would never let that happen. I understand the SDS client's interpretation that she's worried about what's going on and that you're worried about the country and the people. I believe you. But my medical experience says that when relatives come to the hospital to visit their relatives who visit them at home once a week or a month when they are in the hospital, they call a doctor every hour and ask them what you gave them, what you did to him, and so on. That's bad news. You know, one who does all the things he needs to do doesn't have to remind another what needs to be done. I think that we are all adults and that we know what we need to do at a given moment, of course if in 24 years we have really gotten the conscience that belongs to the development of every human being. The well-respected proponent talked a lot about the film today. And I really think, dear colleague Blackach, I don't know if this is for the movie today, but it could be. I think that by wasting time, taxpayers' money, the unrealistic points we have in interpolation, and by obstructing the work of the government, whatever, this is really not an example for all of us here, and especially for the SDS. If you think you're getting points on TV, I don't think so, even though it looks as boisterous as talking is, but believe me, from a psychological point of view, it's not like that. I believe that two thirds of those sitting on my left, which is my heart's side, think the same thing, and I believe we wouldn't even be involved in this interpretation if we didn't have a boss. Look, certain bosses are asking their own to do this and that and that and to do that and so and so. Yes, Comrade Jerovšek, but you are a hopeless case. I will propose that all those who are more than two seats in the National Assembly will no longer do so, because I think they have given everything they can in two terms. Let me get this straight. Interpellation is a waste of time for me, you know it won't be voted out, you know that the trustee has been voted out to the government, you know that this is speaking and the bad conscience of those who represent it. I'm asking you nicely what we can do to shorten this time, because it doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek volunteered for the replica. Have you discussed it yet, Mr Jerovšek, because I haven't been here all along? Then you can't have a replica. Next time. That's not gonna work. Mr. Blackach, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u72	Mrs Hercegovac was probably from her experience. I believe they have a problem in the Positive Slovenia Group because they actually have a boss and a boss, now after the new one. So here is probably the problem of who to follow, who to obey, and so on, but it is not good to pass these bad practices on to other parliamentary groups. We're only talking about a serious question, I don't know if you're aware of that, including Mrs Hercegovac. Look, we're talking about the question of what happens to this country in 2, 3. 5, years, 10 years, according to the decisions that some propose, and some are also taken by the current Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Chufer. On the basis of all these decisions, not to repeat them, because they have already been told several times today, this country will be in very high debt at the end of its term of office, even though this end of its term of office tonight will be extremely indebted, at extremely high rates. This concerns both you, Mrs Hercegovac, and Mr Bevek, as Mr Shirtzl, as well as me, as all of us, 2 million people in this country, because for the high interest that will have to be paid due to these decisions, and most of all those who have not done so will have fewer. It'll be less for schools, less for kindergartens, less for pensioners. This acne, this spasm is going to get bigger, it's a simple household logic. If we had a 300 million-euro liability in 2008 and now have 800 million, a second billion, then because of the decisions made by the Minister, this country will probably no longer be able to operate in a relatively short way in a relatively short time, so as to develop itself in order to carry out the functions of the social state. And that's what we're talking about today. The minister's making fun of it. I believe he enjoys listening to these discussions because he feels tough in this coalition you support, he doesn't feel threatened. However, look, we are all threatened by these practices. Not only are those sitting in this hall, but in particular 2 million people in this country are at risk because of the debts they have incurred in recent times, such as this 101.5 billion commitment, which we do not get an answer to who bought it. He was the only investor, he bought it in a few minutes, closed procedure, 6 million Euros of discount, we don't know what the state commission is. We don't know anything. And we know that these transactions go to commissions not to hundreds of thousands, even millions of euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, especially Minister Chufer! I say that interpellation may also be an opportunity to convince and support us, but unfortunately there have been no arguments so far. However, there have been quite a few debaters who would like to blur this debate in some way and also evaluate the importance of this interpretation as well as the content we are talking about. I don't believe in coincidence either, because I am already the second or third term in Parliament. I am no longer surprised by the individual media actions that are taking place in the suport as well as the investigations. Remember the extraordinary session about banking when we talked about the same things, about Factor Bank and Probank. Just before that, or on the same day, an investigation was conducted with Mr. Medja and Arhar, thus filling the front pages of newspapers and portals. Today we watch repetition or reruns and there is an investigation in HSE. Maybe because they're doing the wrong strategy and I don't know what else, but whoever thinks this is probably wrong. I also wonder about some Members who are constantly deceiving our debt. In all the statistics that you have available and sent to you by the Statistical Office and other institutions, it is clear that the debt in 2008 was around 8 billion, and at this point it is 19 billion. And that's what the documents prove. They're all on your desks, and I don't know why you're deceiving me. It's the same as percent if someone doesn't understand absolute numbers. In 2008, the debt share of the gross social product was 22%. At this point, it's 54%. And now some Members are explaining that it is not wise to talk about this, that it is a topic for not knowing who, but not for Members sitting in Parliament and in some way also indirectly confirming all these events, through the budget or through legislation. And someone who came from another job wondered if that was important. I think it's important. Not for us, it's important to all taxpayers. They will pay these differences over this period: through income, through VAT, through real estate tax and all the things that have happened in the last period. Who's gonna pay the interest? No one else, not a minister, or indirectly, as a taxpayer, as well as us Members, but all of us, all of the two million people watching us. The above comparison was mentioned that Factor Bank and Probank are now compared under the Banking Act, that we mix this up and that this is the same as deposits and subordinate bonds in both cases and that we speak once and for all. That's not true. In the case of Factor Bank and Probanke it is bankruptcy or controlled liquidation, which is a special procedure and in this case everyone answers with their deposits, or in this case we have acquiesced those who have more than 100,000 euro worth of deposits. In the case of subordinated bonds with other banks, however, it is a procedure where these banks are not in any special regime at the moment and those subordinate bonds are taken back. I'm sure the Constitutional Court will say a lot about this. Previously, the minister explained that this was the best decision for Probank and Factor Bank to go after a controlled liquidation procedure instead of bankruptcy. And he also mentioned that this was presented by the former Governor of Kranjec at that closed meeting. I didn't hear that in September. But I must say, in this session, we have heard that all banks are in good condition. The minister says that the first time he sat on his chair in March or April, skeletons fell from the closet. We're surprised, too. In the information we had as Members of the National Assembly by the banking sector and also the Governor, who spoke to us at a closed meeting, there was a constant discussion that banks were in good condition and that we did not need any help. Then there is the need for liquidation instead of bankruptcy. Also, at his hearings in the parliamentary groups, the new governor kept saying that in such cases he was the best bankruptcy. I don't know why the board turned so fast and it's a better liquidation. Or we know – to protect that 0.5% of depositors or commissioners who had more than 100,000 euro deposits, and these are 175, I think this has already been said today. They are probably more influential than the large majority of small depositors, 99.5% of whom had no deposits higher than 100,000, for which the state already guarantees under the basic law. Thus, these 175 visas of 35,000 other committees have affected the fact that a controlled liquidation has taken place instead of bankruptcy and that all of these 35,000 plus other up to 2 million citizens will pay these liquidation costs. However, they will not pay those who had higher deposits and who also had equity shares. I am also interested in why there were no conclusions - this was also a speech by colleagues on the other hand, that everyone was in favour of the public information in the case of specific procedures, whether it was a controlled liquidation or bankruptcy. However, you have not confirmed these conclusions at this meeting. So we have no idea why certain anomalies happen. The minister still did not respond to the recapitalisation of Factor Bank and Probank in May for this 109 million. However, it is necessary to know that these two private banks had 39 000 state deposits in 2007 and 2008, 2008 80 000, interestingly, in 2009, when the government switched, these deposits in private banks, so that there would be no mistake, and probably all the Members we expected or have in our heads that state deposits are mostly tied to state banks. Or perhaps they would expect to be in some foreign banks that are more secure than in some domestic private banks. Interestingly, 2009 will increase these deposits to 284 million, 2010 to 231 million, 2011 to 225 million. These are state deposits in these two banks. In 2012 209 million, and despite all the audits and warnings both the Court of Auditors and other auditors of these bank departments have made and the signals have certainly been made available to the Ministry, various revised annual final reports, despite the fact that, in May 2013, deposits of €109 million have been re-invested in the new minister. And these deposits are now an excuse why not bankruptcy, but liquidation. That's how I understand the Minister. But if the state hadn't invested these deposits in the Factor Bank and Probank, but would have invested them in the NLB, the effect would probably have been better. It was previously said that Slovenia has a better position in the banking system or that the banking system is stronger because of a decision on controlled liquidation rather than bankruptcy. I don't know where you found this, given the latest debt on the closed market, which means we don't even hope in the open market more than the country, and at a high interest rate, which is what all experts confirm. I don't see any strength in our system if we don't even hope to rent a loan on the open market. So we don't know. And we don't know who gave that credit. We don't know how much, as was said before, commission, but we know how much interest we're paying. And once again, there will be no ministries and no governments, but all taxpayers will. And it's a very busy piece, 220 million. And you're talking about how some of us on this side are dealing with small things and we're dragging debates forever. But these are important questions. I hope that at least those Members who are sitting now agree. I don't care whether I pay 5 percent interest on my loan or 2 percent interest. You're probably all negotiating when you're borrowing a loan for the amount of this interest, and you're looking for offers from all the banks. Interesting, but our government collects one and lands on high interest. If it's not for the question, if it's not for the interpretation, then I don't know what else it would be. And there was no answer as to why Banka Slovenije or the Ministry had allowed dividends from these two banks, if they knew, and the Minister had already admitted in April that they were skeletons, but they still allowed both institutions to exhaust these banks. There's no clear answer here either. I think that Banka Slovenije probably also has some kind of measure at its disposal to make this worse. Not to allow these payments to be recapitalised at 109 million. I think these are questions that the coalition wants to answer. Earlier it was said that we had missed some things and we could have done them sooner. However, there are also those who are new to Parliament, you have no commitment and you cannot speak, but some of them have cooked before us. You will have to look yourself in the face and ask why you took such a heart attack against the holding company and the bad bank last year and collect even signatures and demand constitutional opinions, but now this is just an excuse that some procedures are delayed. But here you no longer have the excuse that some Members and some mandates have been cooked before you. So I expect answers from the Minister to the specific questions that have been asked several times, and I believe that we will also obtain them in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, followed by Dr Ljubica Jelusič, Andrej Šircelj and Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister and Representative of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! Let's see some history. So far, we have had 26 interpretations in the National Assembly against Ministers of Government, of which two interpretations have been filed against the Minister of Finance. On both occasions, Mr Mitja Gaspari, Minister of Finance, found himself in a hot chair. In March 1994, the members of the Slovenian People's Party submitted their first interpretation, and in December 1999, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian Christian Democrats submitted their second interpretation. However, the proposals did not pass the tests in the National Assembly, both Members and Members rejected by a large majority. We are here today and we are witnessing a third interpretation against the Minister of Finance. But I can't help feeling that the intervention against the finance minister, Dr. Uroš Choufer, is attracted to hair. Why? The SDS party, which filed the interpretation, made a statement about the granting of the guarantee in the controlled termination of Probanka and Factor Bank in the forefront of the interpretation against Minister Uroš Cufer. But let us recall only the statements made by members of the SDS party when the Government adopted a decision on the discharge of Mr Shirtzl. That's when they predicted interpolation. And today we are simply here because the Minister has proposed a painful discharge for Mr Shirtzl from the position of the non-executive director of the Bank Claims Management Company. We have heard a lot about this today, but let me remind you again, Mr Širclja was appointed by the Government of Janez Janša at the time he served as State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mr Šircelj is still a Member of the National Assembly. Article 13 of the Law on Members states that a Member may carry out an activity alone or in a working relationship, but only to a extent not exceeding one fifth of the full-time work. It is therefore surprising that at the time the Government of Janez Janša was appointed as the non-executive director of such an important institution by the State Secretary, who had already been fully employed by this function. The irreconcilability of functions is determined both by the Law on Members and by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The Law on Members clearly provides that a Member may not be a member of the Council of State at the same time, nor may he perform any other function or work in the State bodies, may not act as mayor and a mayor in the municipality, may not carry out a gainful activity which, by law, is incompatible with the exercise of a public function, except for a fifth of the work of course, and may not be a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Economic Society. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore adopted a decision which reads: "As the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks has not excluded the application of the Law on Members, which states that Members must not exercise control functions in companies including the Bank Claims Management Company and, on the other hand, non-executive directors of the Bank Claims Management Company are acting as a Supervisory Board, members of the Member State and members of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company are incompatible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore notes that the reason for the discharge referred to in the second indent of Article 8, paragraph 8, of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is given." On the basis of this decision, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore dismissed Mr Širclja from this city. I believe that interpellation is an institute to be used when there are legitimate arguments, not on the basis of such perceptions as are derived from the text of the interpolation. The decision made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is quite clear: the problem is that Mr Šircelj should simply decide between the role of Member and the role of non-executive director. He didn't. I believe that in the two important functions that Mr Šircelj had at his disposal, but they are legally excluded, a matter of political hygiene and ethics, that you simply decide which function and which work you will fully devote yourself to and which one-month income of at least EUR 2 000 has been cancelled. Therefore, the two functions which are incompatible, namely, Mr Shircelj and the non-executive director of Shircelj, are not the problem of Mr Minister, but are the problem of Mr Shircl and the SDS. I'm opposed to an interpretation that's completely groundless. I will vote against Dr. Uroš Cuffer's dismissal, because he is an excellent minister who speaks little and works hard and is worthy of all confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusich. I'm sorry. Mr. Blackach, on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u78	Nevertheless, he is expected to answer questions in the National Assembly, even if he speaks a little. And again, I invite him to respond to what we ask him unsuccessfully: Who is the buyer of 1.5 billion euro bonds? Did he get 6 million Euros of discount? How many commissions and who did you pay in issuing this obligation to? Why does the Minister of Finance not decide on a European mechanism for bank resolution, why does it not go this way and thus reduce our future debt, prevent the threat of many generations who will have to pay these loans and so on? Why were these two private banks further supported after they were found to be closed in May? Why an additional EUR 108 million 900 000 to ensure their liquid liquidity? And there are a number of other questions that we haven't been able to answer. With regard to the discharge of one of the four non-executive directors and the logic taken from the speaker, if what she was saying was true, then I wonder why the National Assembly did not initiate the discharge procedure. Why did the National Assembly not initiate the discharge procedure if that claim held that the government had acted in accordance with the law because it had not decided to do so? The Minister himself said in his reply that one of the non-executive directives should be given the opportunity to clarify which of these two tasks will continue to be carried out. Only if this had not been successful would there have been a legal possibility to resolve it. He did not object, he voted in favour of an illegal decision in the government, and this is one of the most important but not the most important points. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u79	Dr. Jelusichova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! Let me first say that I will not support interpolation because it is based on distorted facts and on arguments that cannot be supported. Not only is the interpretation in writing, but today's reasons for this interpretation are such that I am even more convinced that you have no arguments and that you are mutilating the fact that you are trying to show what is wrong with Dr. Cuffer's work. I could even say that this interpolation from the vine is tricky, but it is intended for a parliamentary theatre that you have been going on for a while. Today is just an extra day in this poorly viewed parliamentary theatre, not to say ill-visited. You also use data and graphs to substantiate why interpretations are completely unsustainable. Draw out, Mr. Chernač, those graphs that you used to have and showed in your presentation where you compared how much each government owed. You compared governments that ruled for four years, three years, one year, less than one year, and you took this as relative numbers that you could compare with each other. Draw out the data and graph that shows how much Janez Janša's government was in charge in 2012 and let's speak honestly and discuss together why you could only be in charge of that billion and something. When you came to power at the beginning of 2012, you settled in a warm seat, because Minister Križanič and the former Pahorje government managed to reach a debt in 2011 under favourable terms for long-term bonds and put that money into state reserves. We must say that our country is not so poor because it always has at least four to six billion of these state reserves in its capital, in its finances. These are the reserves that we have already talked about many times today and are also invested in banks that are not doing well. That's right. But when you came to power, you could start investing without worrying about the liquidity of the budget. We did this deliberately in the Pahor government because we wanted any government that came to power after the December 2011 elections to be able to start in peace with the reform measures that were necessary at the time, so that it would not have to worry first about which market to get and at what interest rate any of the funds for its operation. When the government of Alenka Bratusek took power in March this year, she did not have such a kind predecessor. She had almost a billion holes in her budget, which she inherited. And before himself or behind him, to be more correct, Janša's former government also had a decision that Minister Šuštersič should not be in debt, even though he had the most favourable conditions for borrowing so far in February 2013. When the Civil Code went to the opposition, Minister Šuštersič said so much about those shoes you mentioned earlier, those of his shoes in your government had big holes, which the Prime Minister of your government also drilled, by deciding instead that he should not be in debt, even though Minister Šuštersič's proposal was that the country should then be in debt. And that's how we come up with the answer, why you could only be in charge of a billion and a half. Even more. We have to ask ourselves, what interest rate did you get in 2012? The interest rate of 5.7 on ten-year bonds was at that time a sign of an approximation of 6 %, which in European financial markets at that time meant an approximation of the edge of long-term financial instability, which was a sign of the arrival of the troika. Don't you think you're in debt? Good luck. Because if they did, they'd really call in a three-wayer. But you knew well, too, your Prime Minister knew at that time that it should not be better for his citizens not only to seal the belt but also to tie the door so that they would not accidentally require too much, not in the social part of the budget or in any other part of the budget. Therefore, the facts shown in your graphs are useless because you interpret them in a way that does not correspond to the facts in which events and debts occurred in different years and governments of this country. When preparing the content of this interpolation, you used a lot of data from documents prepared for the extraordinary session of 20. 9. on the solvency and insolvency of the bank, in particular two private banks. That 20th session. 9 was long. She has answered a number of questions. I personally think that Minister Chufer, and especially the Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Jazbec, then very well answered many questions and also explained to us why it was necessary to choose from two bad options the one they chose, i.e. controlled liquidation. And they were the first ones to tell everyone openly at the time that two of these two banks were unable to close. Of these two poor options, one was used, which was also assessed on the basis of the opinions of experts in the Interdepartmental Commission made up of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia, and also on the basis of the European Commission's view that it is the most acceptable, although still poor. At that session, your colleagues in the SDS were constantly demanding interruptions. However, the basis for these suspensions should be the requirement for accounting reasons. And you're asking for accounting arguments today as well. I know that you are great financial experts in your client, but I think you are not so capable again that in a few minutes or hours at a meeting on the basis of the calculations of the inter-departmental commissions where we expect experts to find out which option would be better. I think it would take everyone a long time to come up with an answer based on really professional considerations, which solution or withdrawal of both banks was more appropriate at the time. And if you're going to ask again today, I'm still going to think the same thing, despite your capabilities at this point in time, you're really not able to figure out what's better. That is why we also have inter-ministerial commissions. And those of us who have ever been in the government know that the Interdepartmental Commission does not call themselves political people, as Mr Tanko said this morning, but they are called experts from ministerial officials. That's what happens as a rule. That's why we have different ministries, and it's customary not to ask these people about their client card, but to ask them what they know. And on the basis of what they know, they're then called the Interdepartmental Commissions. I think Minister Chufer also had the opportunity to listen to the opinions of such experts. But I'm not entirely sure what I'm saying is true for other governments. If I recall how you people from ministries who were employed in confidence this year at the beginning of January, February also worked furiously in professional posts and in official posts, in high official posts by ministries, and these gentlemen were still in those jobs, or at some other place, because they were probably trying to cover up the trail of how they got permanent employment in these ministries, because they were taken on trust because of their political beliefs, their belongings and their engagement, then I am seriously concerned if we have enough professional people in the ministries to give them to the inter-ministerial groups and commissions, which would then give the new future ministers real professional justifications and there are no such sub-level political reasons. And now for the end of the question. Why do you know this theater, what this theater was so badly in need of? Is it possible that because you thought the government of Alenka Bratusek was a year old fly and then seven, eight months later the time had come for you to begin the accelerated forms of overthrowing such a government? I think the government of Alenka Bratusek will rule for a long time, until the end of the regular term. And in the spirit of political stability and mutual understanding, I think that we, who are members of the coalition, will be able to set up a number of expectations for both Minister Cuffer and any other minister or minister in this government. I think it is incorrect to exclude from the view of the Group of Social Democrats some of our claims and expectations that we have expressed regarding the future action of Minister Cuffer and to try to claim on this basis that we do not feel well in this coalition or that we are not invited to meetings or that you have somehow insinuated. Our client is part of this coalition, and he participates constructively in it. He also has a different opinion at times. However, in this coalition, we are able to reach a common opinion and, on the basis of this joint opinion, also to decide. I am not quite sure that there were any other coalitions ahead of us, so that all coalition parties had the right to co-decision. Therefore, it is not possible to support such a theatre around interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u82	No theatre, Mrs. Jelusic, theater is run by you or by some in your coalition. It was launched on 20 September, it is being driven out of this Parliament today, and some in this Parliament as well. Unfortunately, the question for this theatre will have to be paid once. It will not be paid by you or to a substantially lesser extent than it should be, because you are more responsible than those responsible, but it will be paid back by two million citizens and citizens of this country. If I understand you correctly, you agree with a billion 30 million state guarantees for two private banks, you agree that Herman Rigelnik paid 6 million 900 000 euros in profits in the summer, even though the banks knew in April that they were practically clinically dead. You agree that many will not have to repay loans, among them, I read that 11 million claims are also due to one of Jankovic's companies or his sons. You agree that it won't be necessary to repay 4 million euros of credit to someone who wanted to take over a company managementally, but it failed and so on. You also agree with how we can listen to the fact that, under the leadership of this government, the country, in particular, owes enormous debt to the Minister's initiative, at high rates of interest. And it was bad for you that the other Janša government did not so much in debt, and I think you manipulated the public very gravely, because I can't attribute ignorance to you, because you were here as a minister of defense, but you are no doubt familiar with the numbers, that the other Janša government didn't have to be indebted to because it had received the good legacy of your former Pahor government. And you're reading me something that doesn't hold. I showed the graph, very correct, and compared the years, not the government. I have said that in recent years, the country is enormously indebted to the fact that this chart has started to grow dramatically in 2009, in 2008 it was committed to a billion euros, even less in previous years, and I do not think that all the years before 2008, total debt was not even half a million euros. In 2009, for an additional EUR 3 billion, in 2010 for an additional EUR 2 billion and a half, in 2011 for an additional EUR 3 billion. So, at the time of the Pahor government, in which you were Minister of Defence, 8 billion euros and a half. That this year, under the leadership of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Choufer, this country owed over four billion euros, three billion and a half dollars in May, and a billion and a half euros last week. The adopted documents for 2014 and 2015 provide for additional debt and guarantees of EUR 12.3 billion, of which EUR 4 billion for the implementation of the budget next year alone. This is data from documents that speak very clearly about where we were, and clearly speak of the fact that, despite the tight conditions that have not been less and no more acute than today, perhaps even more so, it was only committed in 2012 to EUR 666 million, and this is not because of your good legacy, your legacy was the 2012 budget of EUR 10 billion 300 million on the expenditure side and about EUR 8 billion on the revenue side. The deficit of EUR 2 billion 300 million, which of course was not realized, was because the government of Janša has adopted a balance that has reduced this deficit to a billion and a hundred million euros. If Janša's government did the same as the government of Alenka Bratušek, and when it did, would say, look, 2 billion 300, it is too small, we need another half billion, let's increase to 2 billion 800, because the government of Alenka Bratusek said the same thing when the mandate came this year, that the plan that the other Janša government had for this year is not real and the deficit is projected to increase from 100 billion to 600 billion. That's about the same thing. Then by the same logic we should increase your projected deficit to 3 billion. It could, but then the number of debt in the second government of Janša 2012 would not be a billion 600, it would be 4 billion 800, as it is now in the government of Alenka Bratušek. So you're deceiving. Why are you doing this? I don't know. You can answer it yourself. In every way, this is a distraction from the topic we are talking about today. I presented these figures in particular to justify that the decisions of Dr. Uroš Cufer, current Minister of Finance, are contrary to the oath he made in this National Assembly, where he swore he would do everything in his power for prosperity, not privileged individuals, tycoons and those from these banks, which are now being rehabilitated by taxpayers, draw on what has been given, but for the general well-being. As Minister of Public Finance, he is also the first to be responsible for the state of public finances. These readings are still well-founded. They're nothing from the vine that's bent. And in these two poor options, on which he and all others had jurisdiction over these two banks, it was said that the chosen was a less poor option. On what grounds? Where are these reasons? They're not here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. It's mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues, co-workers! Of course, the question now arises with these two banks and it has always been asked how the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia had the option to choose between two bad solutions. And if that happens again and again, in fact, a lot of people think that's true. But it's not because we have the Banking Act. The Banking Act specifies when bankruptcy is used and when liquidation or controlled liquidation is used. And if we're talking here about the reasons why both banks went into so-called controlled liquidation, and the minister is talking about how liquidity got worse, that the bank was inequitable, either one or both of them, that was the question of solvency, that was, after all, written in some of the materials, then there's no question at all. Legally, it's bankruptcy. Under the law there must be bankruptcy because the Banking Act determines when bankruptcy is when liquidation is controlled, when other measures are taken, and if liquidation is controlled, what procedures are prescribed and how to act. This is, after all, also done under international directives, and this is inevitable in this connection. That's how they show things. It is true, however, that when controlled liquidation is chosen, procedures will actually increase, a lot of cases may be blurred, eventually rectified, and from this point of view that this process may be more expensive. The number came out to cost this controlled liquidation of the taxpayer under this guarantee of 430 million. I think it has recently been said that it would cost 433 million, and this is within the sum that the Governor and the Minister of Finance have actually talked about in September. This sum was probably calculated. It was probably calculated by some working groups, experts and said it was 430 million. But we've never heard the price of bankruptcy. We have never heard this sum before, and therefore the question is completely justified, how much does it cost now? Given that the State guarantees the process of controlled liquidation for certain obligations and that it will finally pay the creditors, doubts arise as to whether this is actually the right procedure and why those with over 100,000 euro deposits are being protected. Why? Because in the first phase – that is our legislation, all other banks are in solidarity with each other for such deposits. The question is whether the other banks have so much money that they can jointly guarantee for two banks with a total of 4%. Or is it in the background of protecting owners, protecting certain persons associated with these banks? These are the questions I am also asking the Minister of Finance today. In short, we have a law on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have financial calculations. However, for this second one, it was never determined how much this would cost us or how much bankruptcy would cost us. The next issue, which is extremely important, is that the expectations of both depositors and investors in other banks are expected and based on this decision. And here is the question to the Minister of Finance how he will act if other banks come into such difficulties as to guarantee all deposits or how the state will ultimately guarantee if it cannot guarantee the entire banking system. Perhaps this can happen very soon, for another bank to come into some liquidity problems, solvency problems, and so on. Here the expectations of all persons holding deposits in these Slovenian banks are fully justified and require the same status as the depositors in these two banks. International markets are also exactly the same as expected, although international markets do not believe that Slovenia will be capable of all banks or of any other bank to guarantee the same resolution. And here are the international institutions. The authorisation granted by the Ministry of Finance or Bank of Slovenia, as I understand it, was a temporary permit for the procedure. Now these two banks have sent the whole restructuring plan to Brussels and I am interested in the responses of Frankfurt and Brussels to the restructuring plan of these two banks. Is there any response to this, because by the European Commission, I think that DG Comp must come to this in the end with the right approval, or will they say, "know what, the situation is that these banks must go bankrupt". And then there will be bankruptcy because the European Commission will tell us. With regard to the operations of these two banks, I am interested in what were the business relations between the state banks and these two banks. Did Nova Ljubljanska Bank loan these two banks, or did it have loans and vice versa? As we know, NKBM owned one of these two banks. And here is the question, given that there will be no stress tests for these two banks, the question is whether the works of the New Ljubljana Bank or the works of the New Maribor Credit Bank are not being resolved through these two banks, and then the question is whether there would be some sort of resolution circuit also through the Bank Claims Management Company. It would be very interesting to hear what these business relations are like, after all, this is a state bank and then if we take the Bank of Celje, which is the majority property of the New Ljubljana Bank. If we are talking about when measures should be taken for these two banks, the question is why the audit report was not taken into account, the recommendation that came, as I understand, to the Ministry of Finance in May of this year, where it was said that these two banks do not have confidence and that the problems are what they really are. This was in May 2013. And that's that cut-off day where all the red lights should be on fire. Also in connection with what to do and how to do. After all, these solutions for these two banks were made ad hoc, as was done on the other hand by the State of Slovenia, lastly, for €1.5 billion. And this was a closed market, so I think it would be very nice for the Minister of Finance to explain whether Slovenia is still in a position to be in debt in open markets. Does anyone else buy the bonds from Slovenia? And if not, then it's a completely different question than if the answer is yes. If the answer is yes, then the question is why the 4.84% interest rate set, which is absolutely high when we look at the comparison with other countries. Not just absolutely, actually tall. Croatia 4,05, Hungary 4,290, Romania 4,123, Spain 1,781% interest rates, Portugal 4,255, Mexico 4,390, Botswana 4,90. And if we now give those other 6 million that are supposed to be paid as some kind of reward, as a cost, that actually came to this deal, then we can actually see that we're at about 4.90 if we recalculate it all together to this interest rate. And I'm wondering what were the reasons why Slovenia was going to be indebted at such a high interest rate, without any market mechanism, without any open trade, but on the basis of, I don't know, it's happening now by someone passing through the Ministry of Finance, saying, here you have this money. And if so, then it is necessary to determine the origin of this money from where this money came from. Who is the one who bought 1.5 billion bonds at this time? These are essentially questions, completely up-to-date, completely professional, mainly because of the fact that there is also a need to establish responsibility for such actions and because we must, after all, have the right to know the reasons why this is happening. These are unique, strange events that just happen. I expect Dr. Chufer to answer these questions, some of which I have repeated, some of which are new, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. It's your turn. The next is Jože Kunič, then Aljoša Jerič and then Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me introductoryly say that I will not support the interpellations against Minister Cuffer. Well, let me tell you why not. Because the so-called harmful link between the banks, the government and the pacifist capitalists was not committed by Minister Chufer. And in the situation we are in, in fact, no action is helping anymore. I already mentioned the source; in the last Youth they asked the last Vice-President of the Yugoslav government in 1982 – they asked him now, 30 years later – why were they sending positive messages to the world when the government sent positive messages that the Yugoslav Federation would itself be free of bankruptcy. He said, "What are we supposed to do? Are we supposed to say we're going to go bankrupt?" The analogy to today's situation is the same. And when asked if they could save Yugoslavia with smart economic policy, he replied no. It's similar today. You know, we are now reaping, in my opinion, 20 years of bad decisions. And one day it's over. We've been working on how we're going to share, how we're going to prey, how we're going to grab as much as we can for our supporters, and that's it. It can't be fixed anymore. In fact, Minister Cufer and the team can be acknowledged as speeding up the path to total bankruptcy because they use the so-called medieval method of treating public finances. In the Middle Ages, many diseases were not treated, and almost all diseases were left with blood, so the body spread. There's a similar analogy today. We leave blood or take money to the economy and the population, we weaken it, of course we draw it into the financial sector, we fill the budget now, but we are actually just ahead of breath. For these reasons, I believe that Minister Cuffer is not the main culprit and that there will be little success in this interpretation, although the applicants certainly have some valid arguments. So I'm going to comment on one thing. "We believe that the way banks are saved is less harmful than any other." We do. - Do you understand? I don't understand that language at all. That you as an economist, a financier – you do. You have to handle the calculations, the arguments, and so on. You do, and then, of course, it's hundreds of millions that you just give somewhere else. Well, that's a little unserious. But I'd like to warn you about another problem. I ask myself, as a Member and a citizen, how is it possible that – and this is not the fault of the Minister of Finance, the legislator – without the consent of the legislative body, Parliament, take such strong and consequently harmful or useful decisions as to decide that you are saving banks in the way we have decided. This is said to be the problem again in legislation that is probably deliberately written in such a way that nothing ever happens to anyone. I think it will be necessary to start working differently, to create conditions for new jobs and an appropriate business environment. Today we read in Finance, we lost our investments again. We're probably enjoying the fact that Litostroj's workers haven't been paid again. Is this the business environment we need to be in [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Dr. Joseph Kunic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Honourable Minister, Government representatives, dear colleague and colleague! When I read why the interpolation was going on, I was, I must say, surprised, I didn't expect it because I was thinking about it, and what Dr. Chufer did so badly that it was necessary to interpret it. When we see these two key reasons given in the interpolation, it seems to me that this is a long way from making the interpolation really serious. This proves that in the debate not only your party’s representative but also others extend to debts a few days ago, which was not mentioned in the interpolation. And I don't understand why the Minister should answer that in the context of interpretation. You will ask him a question, and then he will have to answer. It surprised me that you are someone who is in the noblest sense of the word true techno time – he was not a member of the customers, as much as he is not a member of our party, but his direction is numbers, his direction is what must be the main direction for the finance minister. When I once worked at a bank and I was the vice president of a major bank, it was considered that financiers should not be allowed to shine their eyes, they should not be conscious of their feelings, they should not be aware of their ideological direction or anything like that, but they must be sober, rational about what it is. According to my opinion, Dr. Cuffer is like that. And then I wondered what this interpolation was about; whether it was someone who couldn't get over it, that someone was doing relatively well and that it was relatively good to stop this car of economy, which was still going down, whether it was a desire to destroy some successful ones that were not "ours", or whether it was just a desire for public performance. I don't know. Maybe there are other reasons. But I think it's everyone's turn. But I don't really see the reasons for those two main reasons, the two themes you're referring to. Much has been said in recent days to the Minister of Finance and also to the Government in relation to finance. What can be bad about finding something in each measure, certainly it is not difficult for such a large problem, but it is always important to ask what if you did something different. And the Minister must decide between one or the other alternatives. And let's see what was in the banks, with these two banks that were so much talk about -- he had to choose one way or another. And who did he listen to? Yes, those who are the biggest bank experts in Slovenia, where the largest pool of experts who deal with this daily is the Bank of Slovenia, which is why we have it. I think it's only commendable that he's been working with the governor, which we can't say is client-defined and certainly not ours. I think he did the right thing. Of course, later we can say, "Yeah, but now it was like this, and the tycoons got it, and you got a few million, and they got it." But what would happen if Banka Slovenije had accepted another alternative? Experts have assessed with all seriousness that this would be misleading or likely to undermine the financial system in the country. And no minister, no serious finance minister will risk that. I would personally resent him if he took such a risk, even though the probability of doing so would be relatively small, even though experts have estimated that it was not so small. I think that some people have certainly profited, but I must also say that I have heard from some of the left-wing political options, how they have been damaged in these two banks, and that Minister Chufer should not have acted that way. I estimate that he did the right thing, because he did not benefit or harm a few people, but he did not risk what could have happened in the financial system. Another important point you have highlighted is the non-executive director of the Company for Bank Claims Management. In the last few days, we have heard a great deal about honesty on that side. Mag. Grims had a lot of debate about honesty, and other colleagues were talking about honesty. Do you find it fair that a high official receives two incomes, two relatively high incomes? Is that fair? Don't mind me, I'm pretty sure that's not fair. Even if he did not have all the legal options, some of them did, but some of them did, it would be if we were to defend honesty, if it was so high on our pedestal, then it would be necessary to behave honestly and act. It's not easy, it's sometimes very expensive, but it gives people respect and respect. There's something else. Dr. Gorenak said nicely that in the European Union other countries do not have an anti-corruption commission or a similar institute – I think it was yesterday and I believe it – but we do. And respect for our own country is shown by respect for its investments. I didn't say follow them, I didn't say follow them blindly, I said respect them. The Anti-Corruption Commission has said its part about our former president, we've brushed our teeth, we've laughed acidically, we've been hurt, but we've respected their opinion, which I can't say is the opposite. You did not respect this opinion, and even in the case of Mr Shirtzl, you did not respect this opinion. You have not followed the line of honesty or the line of respect of the state institution, which many have already spoken about what the laws say – I do not need to repeat it – but if you are talking so much about honesty, I would really ask you to stick to it at least a little. [[...]] There wasn't a word in the interview about the last assignment that Minister Chufer performed. As I have already said, I see no need for him to talk about this today and to reveal perhaps some business secrets that they may have committed or agreed not to reveal. The time will come to reveal it, the time will come when he will have to reveal it, but today is not the time. Today you open this simply because those basic themes are too weak, they have too little weight. I'm sorry I have to find out, but that's what I think. Let me add this to my personal conviction that given the situation at hand, given the short time available to him, given the enormous problems he had to solve in the short term, he and his government have done a great deal, and we cannot really support such interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please. Mr. Kunic, microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have listened to the proposaler who presented the reasons for this interpretation, and it seems that the proposaler is satisfied with all the answers because he is not here today, so I propose that we close the meeting and vote after fifteen minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. The Minister's not here, either, if we're honest. I give the floor to Mr Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I would also like to join this proposal to my predecessor. But if that's not the case, I'm just going to continue in the debate in order. I join the view that today's call for this meeting regarding the interpretation of the Minister of Finance is totally unnecessary. I agree that it was necessary to answer the question why they decided in the case of Factor Bank and Probank for their termination, which we have already done extensively at the extraordinary meeting convened for this purpose. Also with regard to the resolution of Mr Shirtzl, I think it is quite right for someone to ask how and what is going on in this regard. Only that these explanations are obtained or discussed, but I feel that the Minister's interpretation is completely unnecessary. I'm actually wondering where the added value of what we're doing here today is. We know that in general one of the disadvantages of our economy is precisely that added value. I'm also here today to observe that we share these similar flaws, here currently present. However, I would also like to stress once again, as it has been said, that all the difficult decisions that this government and this minister has taken have been taken in cooperation and agreement with the European institutions. Thus, calls are made by the leader of the SDS party to bring about as soon as possible a European resolution mechanism or a reflection of some deep ignorance or, on the other hand, a reflection of a perverse policy, continuous manipulation, the truth in the style of the yellow press of the worst kind. Of course, there is nothing wrong with reading it, such as when we are on vacation and have fun and for a short time. However, if we design a national policy at the highest level in the style of the yellow press, it is frightening and extremely dangerous because it allows all possible speculators and predators an additional room of manoeuvre. Thus, the operation of the largest opposition party in one way or another has other negative consequences. It needlessly and in the wrong way makes it difficult and exhausting the work of other Members in the coalition. I think that in other ways the contribution can be much more constructive if some members of the opposition avoid such practices and are more constructive and alert to the interests of all citizens where they truly see that the work of the coalition can be further improved. I would no longer repeat what has already been said, as we have found, at an extraordinary meeting on Probank and Factor Bank, and, in this well-founded consideration of the eligibility of such action to which we have witnessed, the largest opposition party with such reference and action in terms of the yellow press, I will conclude by not voting in favour of the discharge of the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Irgle's turn. Behind her is Sasha Kos, Robert Hrvat and Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, the distinguished Minister – although we do not have an interview with you yet, but I would expect the Minister of Finance, not the Minister of Defence, to sit here. I'm sure the Minister of Finance is listening to us somewhere. I'd only ask if my fellow Members could calm down a bit. [[…]] [[...]] I'm sure the Minister of Finance is listening to us somewhere, so in my debate, I'm going to act like the Minister is sitting here in this chair. You came from the bank, NLB, and you worked in Banka Slovenije before, and we were already at the Slovenian Democratic Party wondering how someone coming from banks would fix banks if he was part of the problem. We have warned about this and, of course, today we can see that we have had something else right and that is why we have also tabled an intervention against the Minister of Finance. Let me explain that last week, when we adopt the budget for two years for 2014 and 2015, we can see how this government, together with the President of the Government, does not know how to explain why the budget is the same as it is. Nor did the President of the Government come forward, explained no figures, argued nothing, nor did the Minister of Finance do so, although we have repeatedly warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be wise to withdraw from the government procedure such an unrealistic budget, which has not been developed at the last, and that it will be reconsidered, as the consequences of this budget today will continue to be great. The second thing that is also evident in the interpretation that we have submitted in the Slovenian Democratic Party is the controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u95	Could you please ask those who have a meeting back there, two groups, if you could just be a little quieter?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm talking about the controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probank. I do not want to define what is better, whether bankruptcy or controlled liquidation, but I would expect the Minister, when he decided to solve the controlled liquidation, to explain this, to the National Assembly, if not to citizens and citizens, to tell the public. But the minister didn't say a single word. He simply decided that he would do it and in the way he said it, and today we can see that because of this decision we will pay from our own pockets for tycoon credits; those tycoon credits that they gave to the beautiful eyes and were created in the Forum 21 round, which is founded by Mr Milan Kučan. Here I can say that Mr Milan Kučan is also the one responsible for the bank hole in this country, and I hope that he will be responsible for this once. Next thing. Dear Mr Meh, I think that in the National Assembly we can all explain our views, and I believe that, especially in the last instance, you always have trouble mentioning the name Milan Kučan, but also he is no longer as the world, thank God as you think. I hope that, as I said before, he will also be responsible for certain things. As for the resolution of the Magi. Andrea Shirtzlj. Relieving mags. Andrej Shirtzlj was illegal and illegal. Although the Minister referred to the Commission's opinion on anti-corruption, and although the Minister referred to the opinion of the Government's legislative and legal service, let me say that she has always had the opposite view of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. From this we can only find that this resolution was political, nothing more than political, it was just political accounting. She explained that in her introduction, if you had listened very well, including the President of the Government, then the Minister of Finance also said that. So, there was no question of the profession here. In her inaugural speech when she became Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister of Government said that they would only be employed on a professional basis, nothing political. The same is true, of course, of the solutions. That didn't happen! Minister, Shircelj was relieved without anything, and you didn't train with your eyes, but you simply solved him. Mr Šircelj – although some of you have already discussed at a very low level in connection with him, in particular from positive Slovenia, I must say that this is an expert with international experience who is very well aware of the area of tax policy, he has participated in various financial committees and so on. In short, here we have a person who I think we should ask for more in this situation to help and what else I know, Mrs. Potter, that this is funny to you, but Mrs. Minister, the First Minister, says the Prime Minister of the Government, said on her own that she wants professional people on her team to want to help themselves in the opposition, she said it's important that we stay together, that we create dialogue, but she's just saying that, and that's the problem. [[…]] The President of the Government is always speaking, unlike Minister Cuffer, who is not speaking at all, but it would be good if he would ever come forward and say something and explain certain dilemmas, open questions that also arise within this debate within the framework of my fellow Members. In short, I think it would be very good if you were a mag. Andrej Shircelj remained one of the four non-executive directors of the so-called bad bank, that would be good. Not for him, as you would like to show in the coalition lines and the Minister himself, but it would be good for the country in particular. However, Mr. Secretary, in some ways you're even nice to me, given what I've said so far, and given the arguments [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, it was positively meant, but how! [[...]] In view of the content arguments and what my fellow Members have also presented, I regret to support your resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Eva Irgle. It's Mrs. Sasha Kos's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Mrs Irglovo would support what she said in this segment, but we're just going to go somewhere else. I am told the most results of the work and, of course, I also assess people and certainly not by political affiliation. Mr Minister, Mr Cufer is these men, a quiet man, but often silence speaks more than many unfulfilled, empty promises. We all know the saying. Silence is gold. Then I don't know Mr. Chufer personally, but he convinced me with his actions. I believe that this interpretation is entirely unfounded, because, as I have mentioned, the Minister has demonstrated in his work that he is working in the good financial stability of Slovenia, which is most important during this crisis period. I'm sure he's not into vocabulary, and I'd say that today's interpretation is completely irrelevant, and even at this time, when it came to some purpose, it also harms both his personality and the whole of Slovenia. Well, that would be an introduction. Otherwise, I'd like to focus on the obviouss about Probank and Factor Bank. The start of liquidation is therefore of triple importance, the start of action in this area by authorities and supervisors, while at the same time the action is in line with the European institutions. It will exercise for the entire policy of stabilisation of the Slovenian banking system and also reveal legal delays and economic errors in managing the banking crisis. First of all, it must be borne in mind that the situation required immediate action. In case of non-action, one of the banks would be bankrupt within a few days and the other bank we are talking about would be followed within a month and a half. The problems they have experienced have been monitored by the Bank of Slovenia for a long time, all of which escalated to the extent that the Bank of Slovenia and the Government had to decide to control the liquidation due to media exposure. The media exposure caused the bank’s liquidity to deteriorate rapidly in the month of August and would have caused the bank’s bankruptcy within two to three days. The SDS asked Banka Slovenije as well as the Government why the country was not allowed to bankrupt both banks. This question can be answered. In the event of bankruptcy, the direct loss suffered by the State and the local communities, as well as by public companies, would be much greater than is currently envisaged for the final price of the controlled liquidation. This means around EUR 400 million, which is also the same amount of deposit guarantees. In the event of bankruptcy, the wider country would directly lose the 700 million euro circus, both the SID Bank and the local community and various public companies. In any event, the direct loss of the state budget would already be higher and it should be noted here that in the event of the bankruptcy of not two banks, there is only one bank sufficient to cause a fatal blow to the already weak economy. In the event of bankruptcy, undertakings with loans to such a bank should immediately repay those loans — that is, irrespective of the nature of the loan. Of course, the second, equally important aspect is that deposits in this bank would also be in an extremely delicate situation. Since bankruptcy would require us to wait for the bankruptcy to be split, at best we would get to our deposits within the shortest time frame, that is to say within one year. Or else: that the loans should be returned immediately and that their money would wait at least one year. This would mean a complete break for the Slovenian economy. This is certainly not what we want; we want Slovenia, our homeland, upright, so that it is saved itself, not that others help it and lead it through hardships. The bankruptcy of one of the banks would also trigger uncertainty in the Slovenian banking market and would certainly cause both natural persons and investors and depositors to start raising their deposits. There would be a repeat of the Cypriot scenario, which, as you recall, caused panic and forced bank closure and a limitation on the amount allowed to raise cash. That is why I certainly support the Minister, and I wish him to continue his work so successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let's get some news first. Dear Minister, two months ago you said that Slovenia had enough money until next April and that there would be no funding problems. A few days ago, we learned that you sold 1.5 billion euro of state bonds to a stranger. Therefore, I ask you from this city, Minister-in-Charge: Can you today, from this place where you are, publicly exclude the possibility that the mentioned bonds have been purchased by the NLB? That's one thing. The second thing, given that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank is in trouble, is it true that NLB will make an urgent recapitalisation of EUR 55 million for the NLB Bank in Belgrade these days? And if that's true, I want to know why. As far as the interpolation is concerned. The country's 3.6 billion deposits were in Slovenian banks, EUR 400 million was in Probank and Factor Bank. I wonder: When were these state deposits mostly transferred to these two tycoon banks? This information is very important for understanding the dimension of these two banks, the two tycoon banks. Look, the profits in these two banks were extremely high. Investing private capital in Probank and Factor Bank was extremely risky because of problems that were clearly known. The investors knew that. All those who invested in these banks knew that. Even so, those investors who invested in these two banks were aware of the fact that more than 100,000 euros were deposited, of course. You have decided that the citizens will now cover all these deposits, including those over 100,000 euros. I want to know: who owns these deposits over 100,000 euros. Personally, I think that our Group of Members also wants names and surnames. We have the right to know, given that this hole that they have created will be covered by us taxpayers, including all of us, Members and Members of Parliament. The benefits of your decision, Mr Minister, have been borne by bank-political tycoons and financial speculators, as they also served fatly at a time when banks were still operating normally by borrowing money at high interest rates. That's the wrong policy. All citizens will contribute one billion euros. What about the other banks that foreign investment shakes long and long? Will the resolution system of these banks be the same? Will he be discriminatory for some? I think it will have to be asked how the matter will be resolved in the larger system banks. Why did Factor Bank and Probank avoid stress tests? What if this was deliberately done, including by the Ministry of Finance and Bank of Slovenia? Look, in these two banks, as well as the others that the stress test is going to show up, there's been a takwon loan. Who are responsible for lending bad loans without coverage, who are the ones who gave these loans? For our understanding, that is to say from the time before 2004, perhaps between 2004 and 2008, when our government was run by the government, namely the government of Janez Janša, probably from 2009 to 2011, when the government was led by Mr Borut Pahor, in 2012, when our party was running the government again, and of course now – it doesn't matter! See, they are responsible for administrations, supervisors and to the greatest extent Banka Slovenije. Look, regardless of the date of distribution, and no matter who ran the government at the time, who was the bank from Probanka, Factor Bank, A banks, NLB, NKBM put on his knees, should also answer. Now, whether they are ours, yours, it doesn't matter at all; it's important to answer. What do you need to do? It is necessary to pull out credit maps, look at who are signed in those credit maps and, of course, to take into account Article 33 of the Bad Bank Act, which speaks of a four-time limitation period for crimes, i.e. for all the back periods. That would be fair, and that would be right. That would be right, even for taxpayers. I'm afraid of these stress tests. They even mention a two-digit number, which is almost incomprehensible to me. And I'm scared. Look, what have you done so far in this area, Mr. Secretary? In my opinion, nothing much, actually. Now, if the citizens of Probanka are to rescue the Factor Bank, of course we have the right to demand that responsible people be brought to justice. And that is the right of all citizens and citizens to know the names and surnames of those who stole the Slovenian banks, and of course the system banks, most likely the two tycoon banks we're talking about today. And if the owners of Probank and Factor Bank paid off a week before the liquidation of seven million euros, that's a shocking figure. Even then, if you knew they had pulled out millions of dollars, we taxpayers are going to fill that hole now! Look, this is the wrong world, if that's true. And if you knew that, then I'm sure you're also responsible for that. Look, Mr. Minister, you said that an uncontrolled termination of the Factor Bank and Probank would cause instability in the financial system. And I ask – which financial system? Would this pose a problem for the financial system of Forum 21? I think it's more like the other one. Look, Mr. Secretary, your successes are quite orderly. The OECD forecasts are in line with the forecasts of others, such as those of other domestic international institutions, from which only the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which predicts a 2.5% decline in GDP for next year. Now, according to the OECD analysis, Slovenia will achieve the worst results in terms of GDP throughout the organisation in 2014 and 2015. If these aren't alarm bells, then I really don't know what it is! Since you and the Prime Minister are bragging about how successful we are, the latest OECD data is so bad that it would be time for you, of course, to stop. The supervised liquidation of Factor Bank and Probank was a mistake that you made, but it is true that a large part of the responsibility of the state of systemic banks, we must also assign to the former Governor of Banka Slovenije, who spoke a year ago about how all Slovenian banks or how the banking system in Slovenia is in good condition and good condition. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, why did you invest EUR 100 million in the Factor Bank, Probanko just before the decision on controlled liquidation? And second. Did you know that the owners paid 7 million euros just before the liquidation? These are very important data, not only for us the opposition, but also for you, the coalition MPs and Members, because if this is true and that you knew about all this, then this interpretation is certainly absolutely justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Franz Puksič has the following word, and Mrs Renata Brunskole is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Minister or Minister – now the Defence Minister, who is also well defended by the Finance Minister, without Patria, is leaving. Otherwise, I am very glad that our soldiers have defended themselves on this fiery baptism in Afghanistan and that they are alive and well and that nothing was wrong. But as for love and sympathy, I like Alenka Bikar much better than the Minister, so I will no problem vote for the minister's non-trust. Let's get a little more serious. Mr Minister, in some things I will be very specific, and I will also ask you, if only you can answer that question. In the last transmission of this billion, 500 per 4.85 per cent interest rate was 37 million for the one who did it, and therefore 6 million was less paid. This means that there is a billion and a half million left for the so-called commission. I ask you: Is there anyone among those who have received both intervention and commission, including Janez Zemalerič, among whom is Zoran Janković or anyone else who is involved in Slovenian politics in any way or other? Why do I ask that? Because Zoran Jankovic, on television, once in front of the cameras, said that it was in his habit to pick up the phone, call the New Ljubljana Bank and mediate for some kind of credit. At the same time, of course, I ask you: Have you ever received a call? Then I'll tell you why I'm asking. I read from the newspaper from Andrej Kržišnik that when he was called to a meeting, he was surprised when he saw Zoran Jankovic leaving the bank, who was then representing Elekto. Then they told him to start working with him because he had good connections at the Istrian Bank. "I turned down an offer that I shouldn't have, and the bank immediately began to tease me and take revenge on me." So, very specific questions; and also specific questions because of this, otherwise I did not go to check, but nevertheless; Mr Minister, you were employed in the New Ljubljana Bank. So you became the most visible or among the most visible Slovenian politicians – the finance minister already has such a city – you participated in the formation of a bank collapse in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Now the question is immediately asked how much and to whom – not to say yes, but I can, and so I specifically asked you – you are hiding mistakes from the past and protecting your former colleagues, members of administrations, supervisory councils, policies, etc. This would come from the fact that someone pressured you to carry out this additional debt, so called polylegal, because I simply don't understand or I don't understand – I don't think even citizens understand that says the Prime Minister of the Government, that we went to charge ourselves to see if we could still be in debt, or whether the markets still accept us – of course after some higher interest, and then those higher interest paid to someone who doesn't need money at this point. [[…]] This is quite simple, as if a farmer or any of the citizens took a loan, would mortgage their house, pay 4.85 per cent interest for the loan, and then take the money to the same bank or to another bank for which he will receive 2 per cent or a half interest. Well, there's no country of logic here, and it doesn't drink. That is why these questions are such, concrete, because I conclude that you are today paying some bills that, of course, you would not otherwise have if you were not in this position and now you can repay someone something. Or you are also paying the bill when we adopted the amendment of the Banking Act and we demanded that there was no bank secrecy in the law for those who did not pay the credits, but in particular you objected – that is also paying the bills. Or you pay the bills for either of these or 175 in these family private banks, i.e. Factor and Probank, because the 175 or 0.5% of those who have such large sums, which are mainly co-owners of this and will draw money out through other instruments – and as has already been said. I hope you'll also tell us here today whether you knew and whether this money will be returned, the money that he took two or three months before the forced liquidation of Herman Rigelnik. Those are the questions. Of course, I ask you publicly, because the letter is also a public, open letter to the President of the Government, ministers, members of the National Assembly and the Slovenian public from the Director of Ptujska Bakery, where he wrote that 60 employees of €3.5 million create capital and because they have not returned any loans to Probanki, they seek to regulate these matters, they have enough real estate to cover, so they have more than they are in charge of. Why are they? Also because they did not get anything themselves; but at this point they need to do business so that we can still eat hot buns in Ptuj, only 200 million euros to be able to operate, operate normally and also repay in accordance with credit agreements. He says: "With the move that Probank's leadership has made in this case in the controlled liquidation, there is also an increase in the state's obligations to rehabilitate banks with this status. First, because Probank itself owns almost a fifth of the Ptujska Bakery and pastry shops, and therefore by making a decision it works directly against its property and then by generating social transfers also for people who will stay on the road instead of working." In short, Probank is in this way destroying whoever owns them to work to pay off credits so that the country does not have to cover any more from the budget and, on the other hand, 60 people are sent this way on the road. So here are the instruments you have in hand, you have the Ministry of the Economy, where you say that there is enough money to help those companies that have programs that work for liquid assets. Whether all these liquid assets have already been taken away by Minister Stepišnik, of course I don't know. Now I'm going to move on to that part where the Prime Minister of the Government came in here, and she was clearly defending you, clearly, what else could she possibly not expect from her, but still. The Prime Minister of the Government has repeatedly and vehemently said, "My" government, "my" ministers, "my" coalition. That's all nice and all right, but to some extent. I was sometimes taught that when the government is elected in Parliament, it is elected by the coalition and not by the opposition. But when it is, it is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Now it's the government of the government coalition, it's not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia anymore, it's just "my" ministers, it's Alenkin's ministers, they're not ministers of the Republic of Slovenia anymore, and so on. In short, I don't like it. However, I tell her from this town, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, that the state is not hers and will never be hers and that she has no right to do what she does, which is a vehement and recklessly indebted state. He has no right to shut down businesses, and he has no right to go there, Bakery Ptuj, to bankruptcy for this. It says they'll live another day, not more. I hope that concrete measures will be taken here. President of the Government and 'they' ministers, 'her' coalition, you have no right to destroy municipalities, farmers and craftsmen, and at least you have no right to pressure young people abroad because you do not give them an opportunity here. When the President of the Government, on behalf of you, Mr. Minister, said that our country is now no longer a member of the Group of Cyprus, Greece, Spain, but France, Germany and Estonia, I ask her how, when presenting the position of the representative of the "not" coalition, pensioners or DeSUS, he said that "you, Minister, are not angry if pensions are defended as they are, because, thank God, they are" – and here I agree with DeSUS as well as with the continuation when he said that "thank God we have retired people to defend pensions that these pensioners are surviving their children and even more so my grandchildren". And that, of course, is sad. It is a disaster that this is a formula, and the President of the Government says that we belong to a group of France, Germany, Estonia and so on. According to economic forecasts by the European Commission, in all indicators we do not belong either to one or the other, but to the last or the last or fore-end of the last year, if not worse in the Euro group. Then she also spoke in your defense about economic growth and economic growth and so on. I wonder – because it was really done at a time that Mrs Alenka Bratušek, President of the Government – replaced the administration in Luka, was very receptive. For 14 days, the media, all coalition parties, SD announced leaving the government coalition to the extent that this remained. Luksich said that was impossible. The Virant was holding his ass, he said it would all fall off if it stayed that way and so on. Then everything went quiet. The only economic move was Gaspar Gaspar Mišič – Luka. This is now on the one hand and, on the other hand, a subsidy to a successful entrepreneur who is now Minister Stepišnik. Everyone else is fine. She said, "That's why, unfortunately, we have to deal with the stability of the banking system now, because in the time of the Janša government, the companies were in debt, then over-indebted" and so on. It is true that at the time they committed themselves, it is true that they did not receive the consent of the President of the Government, or of the Minister of Finance, or of the National Assembly. It is true, however, that they have obtained the consent of the bankers, and again it relates to this, Mr Minister, or we are now paying the bills for you to repay someone in this way – that is, the consent of banks, bank administrations and so on. One report from the Anti-Corruption Commission states in connection with the operation of the banking system that an application for a loan of EUR 100,000 has been made to the credit committee. The Credit Committee discussed this, everyone involved in the debate, almost an hour and they did or did not approve. They looked at all the references behind it — whether or not they were. In short, the story was close after about an hour. On the same credit committee, there is also an application for the allocation of EUR million of credit. Then one of those who were on the credit committee, a little look, of course, was a ten times bigger loan, with a much cheaper map of explanations and so on, and says, "Well, yeah, that's what we agreed on." And it was all quiet. Anybody else? No, it's nothing. Lady to the vote - and they approved the loan. Here are now, Minister, those tycoon loans where you would like to see who is under such a lender and borrowers signed. That's probably the payment, too. We'll support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Before that, I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I think I've got quite a few questions about the issue of securities that we made last week, and I think it's best that I give those explanations that you asked me about. If we start first, what are the needs of the State for refinancing. When we look at what is actually ahead of us this year and next year, we see four more important elements. The first thing we're gonna need money for is to recapitalize banks. We do not yet know how much this will take, we do not know exactly how much it will take this year and how much it will take in the coming year, but we know that it will be necessary. Another important element affecting the country's funding needs is the euro bond due in April, amounting to €1.5 billion, where there are about 200 international investors and about 300 million domestic investors. Even for that, we actually need money. The third issue that we need is to set up a treasury exchange in October next year of 1.1 billion, where there are approximately 900 million domestic investors and 200 million foreign investors. Finally, we need another billion for current commitments, given that this is the level of the budget deficit for the following year, which is approximately evenly distributed over the next year after €250 million. The money that we actually have in the account and the transaction that we have actually learned in the past days are actually dedicated to all these financing needs. What is necessary to explain the context of this transaction is that Slovenia can come to market. We know, we have also seen that at a time when political uncertainty was high before the government's confidante was voted, we could not come to the market. No investor wants to lend money to a government that he doesn't know if in a week or a month he'll still be down there, and he won't know who that government will come after what's going to happen to it and what's the economic agenda. In fact, the confidant is the government, the political stability it brings, the first important element that opens the window when we can be on the market. Another important element to be taken into account in this regard is the publication of stress test results. At the moment when we already know the results of the stress tests, but we do not yet publish them, we also cannot come to the market because you cannot come to the market and say: I know, I don't say. Nor is it legally possible, which means that the window closes at one point. Then comes the publication of stress tests and the next window, when markets close again, is about 15 December and by 5 January when markets go on vacation. It is also not possible to be present on the market at that time. Our windows And when we look at it in early January, we don't know exactly what the results of the stress test will be, we don't know what the market's reaction to these results is going to be, we don't know if it's going to fluctuate interest rates up or down, and that means it's putting us in some kind of uncertainty that actually affects our interest rates being higher or higher right now. [[...]] This is why it is very important that we can cut this uncertainty and collect enough liquidity so that no matter how things react, we can come in sovereignly and not under pressure that then, in January, February or March, when we have repayments of principals, the maturity of the euro bond, we are not forced to enter the markets under unfavourable conditions. In doing so, two other important elements need to be taken into account, which we cannot influence in any way from a purely international environment. The first is tapering, this process when the FED began to raise interest rates, which started in the summer, which it stopped because of very strong negative effects and which no one knows exactly when they will start again. It can happen that it will start early in January, but the main expectation on the market that this will start at the end of the first quarter, sometime in March, April, and when this process starts again, we can expect the interest rates to rise, the global level to rise and we can see that interest rates can rise. Thus, the certainty of what interest rates we can achieve at what point and how much we can influence ourselves is relatively small, especially if we know that there is now a relatively small amount of liquidity in European banks in Europe as well, that they are very reserved, that the results of stress tests in European banks reduce liquidity and that some more, international companies are also preparing liquidity reserves, what if this leads to some increased devaluation. If we wanted to have some responsible attitude towards ensuring liquidity that we are on the safe side, we had to use this short window of time and in such a short window of time you have very few tools available to put yourself on the safe side. The second thing that could still be said in this issue of securities is that this cannot be seen as an isolated instrument as an isolated measure. This is a measure of a preparatory nature. If I say as was the case in April, May, when we first came to the market with a wealthy view, we can show that we can reach market access, which has opened us up to significantly easier access to international markets and to a significantly better position on the market and increased the appetite of investors under our bonds and the possibility of borrowing at acceptable interest rates. Although, if you remember, at the time everyone said that they could not come to the market at all, we showed that, in fact, they could and that the interest rate here was not historically the highest. So what we're looking at is what happened last week, and we're going to try to do in the coming weeks, is eliminate the uncertainties that the investor is also assessing us through. On the one hand, we are addressing uncertainties about political instability, eliminating uncertainty about our ability to consolidate fiscally and agree on this. But when we go with the results of the stress test, we will also eliminate the uncertainty about banks and the banking problem, and this is what allows us to eliminate rumors that Slovenia will need help, and this is what helps us to influence when we intend to get the first quarter to the bond market, with [[Incomprehensible]] , with all due process, we can achieve this at a good and normal price. Thus, with all these actions we are doing, we are actually redefining our relationship to both European institutions and financial markets. In the coming days, a prospectus will be published on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange for this bond, which has been issued. It will explain most of the questions you have asked me. Until then, if I may say so, I can't explain the technical details to you. But maybe just one more thing to say is that I see independence as a value. And if we look at the fact that Slovenia is sovereign, independent, independent, and if we look at that in the past that some have fought for it, even died, I think it's very difficult to talk about how much money they should pay on interest. Perhaps I can also ask you; how much do you think that the right price for Slovenia's independence is to be able to decide its own future?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor, and Mrs Alenka Pavlič is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Very nice greetings, Mr President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! In today's debate, one doesn't even know if there's anything else to discuss, but I still feel somehow obliged to stress that I certainly won't support the proposal for an interpolation decision to get Dr. Uroš Cuffer off the job of Minister of Finance. When I look at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in conjunction with this Institute of Interpellation, where it is emphasized what this institution serves as a mechanism of control and also as an expression of democracy, I hope to say that today this purpose is completely lateral, that there can be more or actually an abuse just for political purposes and some initial undermining of the ruling coalition. It is interesting that two other opposition parties have not decided to interpellate. I suppose the arguments of the interpolation did not convince them that these arguments were too weak. The government has set itself three priorities: from fiscal consolidation to compliance with commitments to reduce government deficits and remedy the banking system. If we look at one year ago, we Members of the then opposition went to the Ministry of Finance during the summer of parliamentary holidays to coordinate on the drafting of the Bad Bank Act, and I was among these co-workers myself. Of course, the matter has stalled and the resolution of the banking system has waited. This government has taken the resolution of the banking system very seriously. In order to determine the extent of the State aid, the European Commission requires stress or burden tests from banks, and these tests also determine how much capital banks need to transfer in order to cope with the expected deterioration of the economic situation. We are looking forward to these stressful tests, and I am pleased that Mr Minister has also made clear to me and explained certain issues that have arisen to some today, but also the transfer of claims to a bad bank until these stress tests are carried out. However, the fact is that no country is obliged to work and neither is the Republic of Slovenia. That the Republic of Slovenia, because of the wrong political decisions of the last twenty years, was unfortunately also political, and also because of the global economic and financial crisis, in a situation that no one wanted today. There's been a bank balloon, a credit crunch, we've been talking about this for the past few years, and it's certainly necessary to repair the banking system. The issue of the effectiveness of the banking system regulator is emerging, namely Banka Slovenije. That the Bank of Slovenia is now actively involved and involved with the Government, the Ministry of Finance, and that the matter has been taken seriously, there is now no doubt. Of course, colleagues who ask questions may also have some answers that we do not ask why certain things have not been resolved before, if they have been identified. Slovenia has adopted key documents within the mandate of this government, i.e. recent ones: amending the 2014 budget, even earlier the 2013 budget rebalancing, the 2015 budget, and from Thursday to Friday night, or early in the morning, it has received a trust from the Government. This means that Slovenia can go ahead on its own, so on its way. However, since Slovenia is a member of the European Union, the European Commission has also made a positive assessment of Slovenia's measures to address macroeconomic imbalances and the necessary measures to reduce the public financial deficit in the first half of the week. For this reason, the State has been able to re-indebt itself in the euro market for a long time, but it has been closed up in recent years. Dr. Chouffer explained the matter. Slovenia issued €1.5 billion of euro bonds on Friday and, when issued in euro, Slovenia also avoided currency risk, which is not insignificant. Economist Dr. Mojmir Dark said about this: "This is basically positive, because we will need this money. The fact that we are returning to the euro area by issuing bonds is certainly positive, that there is a strong belief that budgetary issues should also be adapted slightly slower." What message does the issue of bonds have before the near disclosure of stress tests, and Dr. Dark says, "Very clear signal to the Government abroad that it counts that any arrangement, assistance, is not needed." It is not right, therefore, that people who are listening to the debates, as our colleague Möderndorfer has pointed out today, but few people are listening because many already say that they can no longer listen to these debates in the National Assembly, but it is not right to be afraid and mention that now two million citizens and citizens will pay for these matters. That bank loans, deposits, whatever the threat, are not true! Bank deposits in banks are not threatened, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have a state guarantee for deposits of up to 100,000 euros at the bank. Therefore, we must not disturb people, is not right, and it is wrong for people to be concerned. In recent events, however, we can see that we have regained confidence. The President of the Government reiterated that the rehabilitation of banks and the rehabilitation of the banking system are crucial. By re-establishing the banking system, we will ensure a prerequisite for the functioning of the economy and economic growth. The forecasts of Umarje plan economic growth again in 2015. For companies that are export oriented, this is now the case, although with half a percent economic growth. It is important that in all these steps we also have a positive opinion and consensus and the cooperation of the very credible institutions of the European Central Bank, the European Commission, which some have called for assistance. But – no, we don't need a threesome and we don't want that! Slovenia took effective action in 2013 and the OECD pointed out yesterday's clear progress in fiscal consolidation; only Germany and Estonia are better rated; confidence in Slovenia returns. And this progress must be seen as soon as possible, with the effects in our economy and people expect this from us. That's what they expect from the government, that's what they expect from the coalition. About two banks, Probanko and Factor Bank. Of course, these two banks, including the articles of the last few days, were not untrustworthy to the bank. People have trusted in this bank and there have also been certain deposits in these banks in connection with certain parastatal institutions. Therefore, in connection with this, as the Minister has pointed out today, the effects on state-owned public finances would be greater if both banks were bankrupt. Therefore, liquidation at a given time was the most appropriate solution. Today, the minister also stressed that it is not true that two banks are being rescued with taxpayers' money. As far as the resolution of the Magi is concerned. It spreads from the function of the non-executive director of the DUTB, the so-called bad bank, and is completely logical and justified. The Ministry of Finance has taken into account the legal opinions of the Government's Office for Law and the Commission's opinion on anti-corruption. We know what the Law on Members defines: the irreconcilability of the function of a Member and the non-executive directors of a bad bank perform a monitoring function. It'd be nicer, nicer if you were a magician. The spread itself has decided, for it certainly knows that both functions together are incompatible. In particular, as a financial expert, as well as as as an expert in legislation, as well as in political action, and in this regard also in relation to legislation relating to auditing, conflict of interest and public financial legislation. As far as public debt is concerned. Every year, even last year, when the time of the previous government was around 8% annually, if we are more concrete, last year around 7.5% of GDP. So it was a continuation of debt from 2008 to 2012, i.e. an average of 8% of GDP per year. Interpellations to Minister Uroš Cufer will not be supported, as colleague Potočnik has pointed out today that the speaker of the interpretation has missed the purpose of the interpretation. Perhaps even the applicants today are already saddened to have filed an intervention against the Minister of Finance. In fact, in the last days, positive signals are coming in the last week, both in Slovenia and from Europe. And that's important. This shows that things are being resolved, but we must not be unsuspected, and the effects cannot be immediately. However, we want Slovenia well, so I will not support the interpolation and I want the government to work successfully forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Cernač has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you. The type of data that has been reported in the previous debate is not true, but should only be denied in respect of the increase in public debt. The added explanation of this interpolation has also shown how this public debt has grown and let me briefly repeat it. By 2008, there were 7.9 billion, 8 billion euros, of which up to 2004 7 billion and a billion circulation between 2004 and 2008. Between 2008 and 2011, it increased to around €16.17 billion, and at the end of this year we will be at €23 billion. If the debt is realised, which is foreseen for next year, we will be close to what we create in this country throughout the year. Thus, this public debt will amount to more than EUR 30 billion. And in this context, the question of sovereignty or independence is once again raised, as mentioned by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, who spoke about this value of independence in the context: we will be able, we will be alone, we do not need foreign assistance and so on. It is a very simple question, perhaps it will be easier if I say it in a completely simple way. When does the Minister of Finance feel personally more sovereign when he has 100 000 euros in house loans at a 5% interest rate, or when he has 1% interest? When is he more sovereign? And when does it feel better, and when is it less likely that speculators are serving in such a loan? There's something similar here with what we're saying today. The question of debt is indisputably linked to the price of this debt, to the measures and activities that have been taken in connection with the rehabilitation of the banking system and, above all, to those that are yet to be accepted, because this large balloon, which is in view, will have to be remedied in some way. This billion that has now been spent on guarantees to two minor banks is just a drop in a glass of water that will have to be earmarked for the entire system's recovery. As it may be heard, this minister and this government intend to execute this rehabilitation with very expensive money. Why? The question was, why? Why with the very expensive money? Why don't we have two alternative solutions on the table? Why do we believe that our sovereignty is stronger if we pay higher interest rates than it would have been necessary for these banks and everything else to be saved? And that's not the answer! There's no answer, the numbers are bad, they're worrying. Today I am reading data on the losses in Slovenian banks between 2001 and 2009 of €567 million; €567 million! During the same period last year, this is called September-January 2012, amounted to €115 million. And the price at which the banking system will have to be repaired is extremely important, including for sovereignty. And here are some imaginary footnotes about whether we're more sovereign if we strain our muscles and pay 4 times as much as we should, it's artificial. If something doesn't have to be paid, and if you have to pay something, meet the conditions that you would otherwise have to meet, then some reasonable reason for insisting on this wrong policy, which, as we see from his last statements, has finally been announced by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, is himself. So he's a carrier, a proponent of a policy of costly debt, which brings this country into a very tight situation. And that's why this interpolation is justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Pavlič has the floor and Mr Jožef Jerovšek is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much. It's not true, but it is, we could write it down under the interpretation of the Finance Minister Dr. Uros Chufer. This victory from the request for interpretation would have been more of a rosary newspaper than an official proposal to the National Assembly. I must say that after nine hours of discussion, as all Members have practically said before me, it is very difficult to find anything more innovative to have our respected viewers, if there is anyone else, if not all of us have already escaped, if anyone else is from the TV to be of any interest to them. We have already taught them all about interpolation, so it is a constitutional institute that we use only when it is urgently needed. So this is when there are legitimate arguments for the Minister to act irresponsibly, unlawfully, he would find himself in some serious affair and similar worse cases, and certainly not in the case of a minister or government – but in this case we are dealing with the Minister's interpretation – doing well. It works well and works very effectively. That this is true, what I am now saying is that his work is good, I would innovately read you some of the headlines from the newspapers, which state the good work of the finance minister and also of the Slovenian government. Slovenia has closed its mouth to speculators about the troika; in Brussels they are satisfied, but they point out the risks; from Brussels, a positive assessment for Slovenia, the REN has identified government measures to remedy the deficit as appropriate. REN: Slovenia may still be excluded from the aid scheme. Brussels: Slovenian budget proposal in accordance with the rules, action seems effective. Brussels: Positive on Slovenia's action to address imbalances, Another in-depth review. What Is It? 11th, Olli Rehn: "Slovenia is acting very decisively and effectively. The Slovenian government is taking decisive action to face the challenges in the banking sector, structural reforms and fiscal policy, so that the country can turn the wheel of happiness and achieve economic conversion." That's 15. 11. In Brussels, the European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs assessed. Next. In connection with the banking sector, he pointed out that the outcome of the asset quality review and the burden tests of Slovenian banks would be known in early December and that they would only then be able to accurately assess the situation in the banking sector. Nevertheless, he estimated that Slovenia was already acting decisively and effectively. The European Commission and the European Central Bank strongly support Slovenian efforts, the Slovenian Bank and the Central Bank are working hard to do what they can. Allow me to remind you of how it actually happened that Dr. Urosh Chufer became a finance minister. If you remember, after he's a mag. Alenka Bratušek became Prime Minister of the Government for a long time looking for a suitable finance minister. All the blue or grey heads in Slovenia from the financial or economic sphere rejected it through the current lane, precisely because they were aware of the big shoes or the heavy tasks ahead of them. And Urosh Cuffer took a bold bite into that sour apple. I can tell he's tough, unforgivable, steel man, talk a little, but he does a lot. But that he's an excellent athlete and an even better financier, he's from today's yellow media. What are you reading to him? You are reading everything we have already said to him, namely, the granting of an unlimited state guarantee in the supervisory termination of Probanka, d.d. and Factor banka, d.d. before receiving the results of bank stress tests, thus placing the burden of irresponsible and harmful customeristic management in private banks in the main direct and indirect ownership of Forum 21 members directly on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers. The answer would be as follows: The introduction of measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks for that bank was a joint decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia assessed that the banks met the conditions for issuing the guarantee as an uncontrolled winding-up of both banks would lead to the bank's insolvency, which would ultimately result in the financial system's instability due to the outflow of funds. In addition, the European Commission has informed that the termination procedure of both banks is necessary to maintain financial stability in the Republic of Slovenia. The measures were supported by both the ECB and the international community. With regard to point 2, it is said that the replacement of the Executive Director of Shirtzl would mention that this is something that is not at all worth discussing and today's interpretation, because it absolutely does not belong here, because in my personal opinion, mags. The width should not even be sitting on these two chairs, and we wouldn't have any problems today. I am talking about the incompatibilities of the functions laid down both by the Law on Members and by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Respected opposition party, with unjustifiable demands for interpretations, you only disable the work of the coalition and the government. I find it interesting that the European Commission and the European Central Bank are assessing the work of this government and the work of this minister as a success, not to say, very successfully. I would almost say that you are jealous of the results or achievements of this government, as it adopts for citizens the necessary and useful laws that have been passed in the last seven months by more than a number of governments throughout the entire mandate in the past. I can understand a lot of things, but that partial interests are ahead of the country's interests, although all citizens will therefore be harmed, I cannot understand them. Here, of course, I am referring to your call for assistance from the ESM Fund. Respectable citizens! I'm informing you that the opposition SDS party is spending your taxpayer's money all day now and today. Instead of being involved today in the adoption of the necessary laws, we are today beating the crap out of us. And we'll probably be doing that for about eight hours. It all shows that your sniper had a bad aim and missed the target and instead of shooting the minister, he shot the goat. That is why I will not support this interpretation, which is absolutely unfounded and groundless.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u111	Mr Cernač has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u112	It would be difficult to expect a different debate than we have now heard, from the person whose son sits in the Prime Minister's office, of course, since he became Prime Minister, and because he has not met the conditions for being the Chief of Staff, he has become the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Get Mrs. Sonja Ramshak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Interpellation, who is not in the Chamber at this time! Look, I'm feeling a little sorry for the man's salary, Mr. Secretary. Every time he comes before Parliament, in front of Members of Parliament, they. If I hadn't acted quietly and timidly before, I'd have thought he'd fainted again, and he's so afraid of the National Assembly. I am sorry for the fact that as miserable a defence in interpretation as this minister has received today, there have been many, 26 of them in these years, and almost everyone I have participated in, we have not heard. But I must commend the forerunner who said they were beating the straw empty. That's right. She was really beaten by many coalition MPs as well. Even earlier, a colleague of Hercegovac admitted that she was discussing it at the direction of the leader. And I see that there is no defence in this frightening matter of how our banks work and how we owe them, some more experienced coalition MPs have withdrawn, they're more likely to get out of the debate, and then they're just like they admit to themselves, as a colleague admitted, that there's no politics, and then she's caught up in insults, including me, and there's a more political cabaret, and her colleagues have shrivelled at her performance. So it would be really good not to beat up empty straw, but I do understand that there are no arguments in this case. See, what the Government has done with Factor and Probank, private banks, this controlled liquidation; this is a strictly planned defense scenario for the oligarchy networks in Slovenia, because we know that there was a concentrated oligarchy, a financial and political oligarchy of this country, which is expressed through Forum 21 and mentioned in this interpretation, but not all of them. The very important members of the financial oligarchy are not mentioned. I thought that the President of the Government, when defending the Minister, would, in my opinion, in a very clumsy way accuse the former government with falsehood of placing the Presidents of the banks, Mr Kramar and Kovacic, in the period when she was in power. It was a consciously plentiful lie. Mr Kramar was from LDS, from the same party as she was at the time she reported that banks — this is true — were granting Taiwanese loans, including Mrs Bratuško's member of LDS. So it's a conscious deception. But Mrs. Bratuškova said that Mr. Chufer was well founded on his decisions. I wonder where he's justifying them. Where he should have, before the National Assembly, he has not yet justified them. The explanation of the budget is the same as Mrs Bratuškova, who has made a scandalous appearance with passwords and accusations and without justification of the budget – and he said three sentences. Then where's the reason? Is there a reason in front of Forum 21? Or in front of the oligarchies? Then Madam President of the Government, who is constantly, as mentioned earlier today, talking about my government, and about my money, I don't know what. I have never heard her say "my supervisory board of the New Credit Bank of Maribor", which was with one co-owner of the Factor Bank, Mr Toplak, the candidate on the list of Social Democrats in the last elections, and she was there. Another financial expert said that Factor was the Bank of Talumova, Toplakova's house bank. If Talum's house was a bank, there were huge sums of money running because the company was 100 per cent state-owned, a large company, and there Mrs Bratusek did not say "my supervisory council", and with Mr Toplak they were an explosive tandem for public finances and for bank money. And it doesn't say how much of mine -- probably, according to the principle of "my money" at the time. As a result, it is catastrophic that this scenario involved Minister Chufer. Do not say that it was not strictly planned that Mr. Rigelnik and other owners of the Bank 14 days before liquidation draw 30 million dividends from the bankrupt bank! Before that, Chufer directed the deposit to the bank so that the money could be paid out of something. And that they were paying together 700 thousand prizes for the supervisory councils. These are scary numbers that we've been doing. However, I must point out that last week I read that Banka Slovenije – now Mr Jazbec – probably demanded the audit of both banks in recent years. He probably realized that with information, like the previous government, he had been cheated, as Banka Slovenije had forged literal data under the previous leadership, and he did not control these banks, that he, in my opinion, had been involved in this decision and that I heard that it ended terribly with this message that Banka Slovenije was going to get the audit from these banks. For this oligarchy will do all things. We know that in Maribor, in the matter of Satex, that poor bank girl who warned that it was a crime got off the road and died. This is about scary stuff. I believe that the terrible resistance and attempts to make this audit work through dedicated people, as has always been done by Banka Slovenije, under the previous leadership, will be carried out by certain people who have then seen all the gold and the right. In this context, this horrifying debt last week is a billion and a half. I would like to ask the Minister to really answer because he has been asked ten times; who brought this money – someone has already asked if the New Ljubljana Bank has bought it. I also ask whether these rumors were that these bonds were purchased for the former money of the New Ljubljana Bank, for Slovenian money seized, and that there were still millions of commissions, that there were several million, and that the commission was not sure how much million. Ladies and gentlemen, if these allegations are confirmed, which we hear, then this is organised crime. Let them say who borrowed the money, and the citizens who will pay for it all have the right to hear, because they own it or will pay it and the financiers hide it from citizens and from parliament. For this reason, I even think that we should close the meeting at this point, invite the director of Owl and the Crime Service and tell them who they were talking to, in what way. Owl, if she was doing well, she had to figure out which groups were involved here. I think that we should close the meeting and that those responsible from the intelligence services should come and tell us honestly how this has turned out, because this is a further demolition of the state, ladies and gentlemen. It is so serious that it is unheard of that the President of the Government is trying to cover this, that Members and Members of the Parliament are covering this matter, one of them wisely withdrew from the debate – more experienced and wiser. In the financial area, unfortunately, everything is going against citizens in the last period, so the exposure of tax administrations, including in Slovenska Bistrica, has been eliminated, under the pretext that this will be cheaper. Everyone in Slovenia, who is familiar with the functioning of the tax administration and how it works, guarantees that it is significantly more expensive, which is centralisation and centralisation of this government working night and day. We received chronic evidence in the minutes of the meeting between the Government and the Ljubljana City Assembly. It is also terrifying what they have agreed and have already passed on to the budget for the next two years. Ladies and gentlemen, your voters are going to put you on the cross because you support this, even in the context of the debate you support this. It's time to do the catharsis and stop it. Of course I have to, I have to support this interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I refer to Mr Jerovsk's statement, which well knows that I love him as a man, but as a policy, I certainly don't. I'm really not a politician, but I'm learning, and I'm gonna become a politician. In the Slovenian Week for a Healthy Green Quality and Righteous Life, from November 20th, the newspaper Seven Days contains a joke that reads: "What is the name of the time when Joseph Jerovšek is silent? "Minutes for culture." I'm really worried about your brain, Mr Jerovšek, I think you've got plugs all right, but they're mixed up and they're not in the right places. I think we should put them in the right place from time to time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u118	Actually, it's procedural. I am counting on you to act in accordance with the rules of procedure with some ethics and to request the Member to apologize for these grave insults which she has made unjustifiably.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u119	See if I can assess the debate. Mr Jerovšek estimated that some who were experienced and wise did not agree to the debate, and this was the reaction that Mrs Leila Hercegovac decided to react to this position expressed by Mr Jerovšek. I think it is right at the time of the debate that you are also trying to exchange views and react to the debates and positions you are mediating. This is also actually intended at this stage of the debate. This happens many times; of course, when explanations are made to the voice, then it is unusual or should not actually be done. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u120	We will get an extract from the magnetogram, but, if I recall correctly, something similar has been said by Hercegovac that Mr Jerovšek should replace the sockets in his head or something like that. I can compare this statement to a statement, which I think is already by the late psychologist LDS, Ziherla, who said that Barbara Brezigar is a brain implant in Janez Janša's head. This statement is exactly the same as a grave statement, and it would be fitting for a Member to apologize on its own, a little less worthy of being asked to do so by the leader of her parliamentary group, who is very eager to comment on similar matters. However, it would be fitting for you to ask for it, but something like this is likely impossible to expect.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you. Ms Sonja Ramšak is next in line and Mr Srečko Meh is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam President. For those Members and Members who say you are not politicians, all those who sit in here and are Members and Members of Parliament are politicians. If anyone denies it, look, voters and voters and citizens and citizens know very well that we are politicians, that we are policy makers and that we are also responsible for the creation of this policy. Therefore, I cannot agree with some of the statements made by the coalition Members and Members. Mrs Brunskole said that this government has taken the banking system very seriously, and her fellow Member Pavlič said that the government is doing well. I would say to this statement that I can agree, but the government works well primarily for the owners of the Factor Bank, Probanke, Forum 21, for Gaspar Gaspar Mišić and Minister Stepišnik, and more and more. When you talk about your government doing well and that the opposition wants to keep you down, I think your historical system goes back a very short time; that is, remember Mr Lenart Zajc's statement, which revealed all this patheticness of the current coalition, as the only goal of the former opposition was to overthrow the government of Janez Janša and the then government and coalition in order to hide these crimes and crimes in the banking system. Not to disclose the responsible person for the granting of bad loans, in order not to disclose persons who have received such credits without adequate insurance. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow yourself a Member of Positive Slovenia, who belongs to the Alenka Bratušek Group of Members, who said, at her presentation here in Parliament, that you are different. Of course you're different, but in the sense that you're very fond of hurting. I think there is a place where an argumented debate must take place. It is not necessary to agree with all our statements, with our opinions, with our suggestions, but at least be respectful. Expect this from our side, but on your part we are always somehow "rewarded" with those villains or verbal aggression. To return to what is the subject of today's meeting or our item, this is the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Finance, Mr Chufer. When you speak of this interpretation and the content we have given as a victory, this word could be compared to the statement made by the same Member when she spoke of another product made by the Chamber of Commerce to be "the wet dream of the Slovenian economy". Dear fellows! I am very serious and I am fully responsible for my work as a Member, and I must say that the purpose of such meetings is to work for the benefit of citizens and citizens. To work for the good of the economy and to work for the good of our future generations. There are so many arguments in this interpretation why we have proposed an interpretation against the Minister of Finance. Perhaps the former Governor of Banka Slovenije should be sitting next to him, because I think he has even more responsibility, and that the National Assembly is the one to whom Banka Slovenije is subordinate. If you are not concerned that Slovenia is in charge of 22 billion today or in 2013, ask yourself whether you are really working for citizens and citizens and whether it is right to save private banks. Why is Minister Cuffer and, of course, the government of Alenka Bratusek not rehabilitating our system banks? At that time, I would also understand that the government is providing guarantees for poor investments or for poor banking conditions, while I see here the very sound names that have already become rich at the expense of taxpayers, and today they are paying the same price for their rude wealth. Today, on the one hand, we see how many people live on the brink of survival when you tear down their houses. On the other hand, you give a billion guarantees to private banks that acted irresponsiblely. But I think that this was all planned, as someone wrote on the internet blog, that it actually went to this establishment of these banks to make virtual looting possible, in a very innovative way. I would very much agree with this blogger, Mr Emil Milan Pintar. The establishment of these two banks was so that the chosen ones could be made rich, as we can see today after so many years, at the expense of the state. It's sad that you support this. I must say that you also read what you read to Mr. Shirtz, and that you have dealt with him unlawfully! If I were instead of the Minister of Finance, I would like to have such an expert who, regardless of which political option she belongs to, I think she showed a lot earlier last year that she is a trustworthy person. And it is sad that in this country we do not respect the expertise and competences, but no matter who is where, on which political pole, or left or right, and until we understand it, Slovenia will go badly. I'll definitely support the interpolation. I will also support it for this reason because the Minister of Finance has not convinced me in his explanations, but I believe even more that we have made the right move after all the statements and discussions of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor, and Mr Andrej Chuš is preparing himself. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Interpellation is actually an SDS pain because the government could still be with John Janša or with someone from the SDS if Janez Janša gave up when needed, when he could not prove where his property came from. Interpellation wasn't really a win, but it really wasn't necessary. In fact, all governments should be integrated, and I agree with those who have led to this moment here in Slovenia alone so far. Today, when we have adopted most of what is necessary, the budget and, of course, the law on the implementation of the budget, as well as the law on property tax, it would be right to agree on how we will work together. If Mr Jerovšek is calling the Owl, a member of the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission could do so at any time if he were really interested in the contents of all of what he was asking out here, but he did not want to do so because there are no cameras. Even if Mrs Ramshakov would like to listen, we will save the system banks after that – and not me – I don't care, Minister, Dr. Cuffer, when he said that after the stress tests, we will immediately rehabilitate the system banks. He said that they could not be cured earlier, that he was also very concerned about system banks. What is the purpose of these extraordinary meetings? Ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, the real purpose of this is to create an emergency situation. Nightly meetings with constant procedural questions, with constant explanations of voice, with pauses, with the stretching of everything that is going on here, are, of course, by the rules of procedure, but it is unnecessary, it is unproductive, people wonder whether it is really necessary to have night meetings, whether it is really necessary to do so for so long. And among the people, even though we no longer have the government of Janez Janša, there is still a fear, a lack of confidence in what the Slovenian government is doing, but we, here in the National Assembly, should build confidence and believe that democratically accepted budgets and everything we have accepted, what gives us the basis to move forward. What are we really supposed to do? We should swerve forces, people, ideas, energy, calm passions, inspire faith in solutions, in people, say that it is and that it will be difficult and that we can do it. We should, of course, talk about how we will solve tomorrow, how new jobs will be done, and all that is said by the Prime Minister, the current Minister has also said. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for interpretation. It has a completely different purpose and SDS works in that manner, all of which all the funds are needed See, indeed, that with this finger I do, but you have a colleague Jerovška, who is constantly working there, also remind him that he will not do so – so all the resources must be used to achieve the goal. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u126	I believe that interpellation is extremely disturbing for some and disturbing mainly because we have a fairly rigid and rather closed media space since you've been in power, and very difficult for people to even come up with credible information about what's going on in the country. One way to get information is to hear what's happening in the country from the Minister's mouth. In this case, it is very difficult because the minister is extremely rare, he says practically nothing, even what is expected to be said in the light of the position he is in, because that chair is not from God's day, but is behind that chair some confidence of a number of people over the majority in this Parliament. This majority, if not important to us, expects the Minister, as the custodian of public finances, to answer all the questions raised very precisely and in depth. That is why his conduct is inappropriate and unworthy, not because he behaves this way towards the opposition in this House. Because it denies practically your ruling majority because they too do not get the answers to the questions they ask each day. Surely no night meeting, no emergency situation, would be necessary, even no property tax at the level that you adopted last week and as you will have to confirm it once again after the State Council's voted veto, if, last May, June, the approach of the then opposition of the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia at the start of bank resolution was different than it was. The positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats were the ones who used all the forces and all the possible receptions that were available, legitimate and also slightly less legitimate, so that the process of adopting the law on the so-called "bad bank" almost stopped and then suspended until the beginning of this year and would even be stopped if the Constitutional Court did not eventually deny your request for a referendum on this law, where Mrs Alenka Bratušek, the current prime minister, was first signed and now advocates these solutions. That's why they're, respectable, nocturnal sessions, not because of the current opposition!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor and Mr Brane Golubovich is ready. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u128	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I would also like to welcome the Minister if he is present in the National Assembly. I would like to begin my debate with this, perhaps unlike my fellow Members in the parliamentary group, that Minister Chufer has proven himself to be a great deal, but he has shown, above all, in the area of debt and in the area of the lifting and invention of new taxes and other burdens on the economy and rural areas. Also, if I comment on the budgets 2014 and 2015, this is only a result of creative accounting, but unfortunately there is no creativity on the expenditure side of the budgets. Mr Minister, if you are present in the National Assembly, please answer: Why did you not put some of this creativity, energy and effort into the budget expenditure page for the next two years? Otherwise, we ourselves know, even yours, I can tell you, colleagues have said several times in the halls of the National Assembly that no later than March we will have a new budget balance, because this is prepared as a master's job for the President of the Government, quite recklessly. And please, don't get mad if we're having a meeting of the National Assembly long in the night, because you're going to kick your own ass because you're doing it superficially and poorly. As I said, nothing has been done on the expenditure side of the next year's budgets, and we ourselves are well aware that the reserves are huge. The only result of Minister Cuffer's work in this mandate is that we have an additional 4 billion euro debt. When counterpart Chernač earlier said that no one thought anyone would be more - negative - successful in borrowing the country like Borut Pahor, we obviously have such a government now. This policy, I can say, lives on high feet, maintaining privileges and the current agony without reform leads to excessive debt. And when the President of the Government and all representatives of the government say that we have received EUR 9 million from the Youth Guarantee mechanism, which will help unemployed young people, then the next day the government will take a decision or commit itself to an additional billion and a half, the interest of which is EUR 200 million – I am really not the best mathematician, but the numbers simply do not go through: we take 200 million and give them 9. And now, what, should I congratulate you?Oh, my God! It's hard. This policy of over-indebtedness and high-footed life today has led to a situation where every newborn receives 11,000 euros in debt. In view of the pace at which you are doing this, in the coming year, every newborn will receive 15,000 euros in debt when he is born. I think that this is really an encouraging gift and the continuation of such a policy is a disgrace. The situation in the budgets is also such that we devote only one billion to interest at the annual level. If there's any healthy logic here, I don't have it. This situation in the budgets is unsustainable. On Friday, as I have said several times, Slovenia has charged itself with an additional billion and a half. The government's representatives were full of mouths, how successful we were in our debt. On social networks there was a lot of publication of various sympathizers, look at the interest rates on our debt falling. In doing so, everyone forgot that interest rates were on three-year bonds. The interest rate was 4,84 %. Last night, I looked at interest rates or foreign debt benefits. I'm not going to talk about Germany right now because we missed that train. With them, I don't think we can compare anymore. I will list several other countries: Austria has a three-year bond interest rate of 0.36%, Bulgaria of 1.28%, Croatia of 4%, Romania of 4.21%, Spain of 1.79%, Botswana of 4.90%, Chile of 4.40%. So, if we somehow logically conclude, we see that at present our state and reputation of the world in financial markets is somewhere between Romania and Botswana. Dear friends, I do not think we have fought for a state of our own because 1% of the privileged will manage the entire banking system and live on a high foot and others will spit blood and live from day to day. Earlier on, Minister Cuffer, or in his own – today I think he spent 16 minutes and 28 seconds for two hours, we can say that he was very active. Earlier, it was full of mouths about transparency in the indebtedness of Slovenia, today and beyond. I'm asking Minister Cuffer to tell us where we're owed for a billion and a half on Friday because we're paying over 200 million interest. There is no way that I can understand that there is much success in the way we owe ourselves. Perhaps I understand that these representatives are happy and happy because there are a lot of tips and also information in the public that there have also been various commissions of between €36 million and €60 million. If that information is true, then I understand the happiness of the President of the Government and her coworkers. We are therefore indebted at the current rate of 4,84 interest on three-year bonds. On the other hand, we have funds from the European Stability Mechanism at a interest rate of 0.25%. Spain, for example, we all know, had a major crisis. Today, the three-year bond premium is 1.79%. A few times less than us! We can say that Spain is also a success story in this area. The activities of Minister Cuffer in the area of bank rescue show that the minister and the government of Alenka Bratušek will do everything to protect the banking tycoons and robbers of the Slovenian people. I really don't understand why Minister Chufer hasn't revealed these names to this day. Under every loan agreement and bad loan is a signature, someone had to make that decision, but we have not learned to date. Ladies and gentlemen, it is these individuals who have stolen our future and taken our present and our country as well! Allow me to also touch on the areas of taxation, the increase in value added tax by 2%, changes in corporate income tax, real estate tax. In fact, Minister Chufer could be described as a gravedigger of the Slovenian economy and the countryside earlier as minister. If they had done something on the expenditure side of budgets in the past, all these taxes and taxes would have been unnecessary. I am also disappointed at the changes in the legislation on income. We ourselves know that it is necessary to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, but Minister Cuffer has not invested one percent of his day-to-day energy or energy intended for the marathon to pass, in order to conclude an interstate agreement or contract with the neighbouring state of Austria that would allow working migrants who are over 10,000 and who, unfortunately, are increasingly living a normal life because of this policy. Instead of thanking these individuals, including many youths, or admitting that they had gone abroad rather than exploiting the social state at home — no, we would not thank them, we would tax them! Fiscal policy, Mr. Chufer, you're running, is bad. The OECD 2014 and 2015 forecasts also show that next year we will be the only poor country with negative economic growth in addition to Cyprus. In 2015, we will be the only ugly duck in the European Union. It is also important to point out that the average monthly gross wage in Slovenia in the public and private sectors is as follows: the public sector is €1,739, the private sector is €1,394. I don't think this situation is healthy and the future of the country isn't pink. Slovenia has also regressed strongly on the global competitiveness scale; this year for 6 cities to 62nd place. However, classification has also deteriorated among the countries of the European Union where we have fallen to the 23rd place. So, we're clean on the floor. In the end, let me take my mind off my comment on the work of Minister Cuffer. He is responsible for the promotion and invention of new taxes, the burden on the countryside and the economy, he is responsible for ineffective policies on the expenditure side, he saves bank tycoons and worries about Slovenia's costly indebtedness in the world. There is no spirit or hearing about privatisation, which would bring some resources into the revenue of the budget. The last time is for Slovenian politics to get out of the economy! Today we see where the so-called policy of national interest has brought us and where the economists of Mencinger have brought us. I will support the interpretation and also appeal to my colleagues to do so in as large a number as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you, too. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u130	Representatives of the Ministry, the President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! It's not far from those eight months when the government of Alenka Bratušek swore, March 20th, if I'm not mistaken, it was. Let us remember the forecast, that is, the media, the opposition, who predicted that this government would not be here for long, that every moment would be a threesome. The media competed in disastrous predictions about Slovenia. But this government succeeded in what no one believed – it managed to stop the free fall and now we are walking on the edge; we are not yet saved, but at least we have the opportunity and hope. What have we done in the area of bank resolution in these eight months? We calmed the situation, that was essential. Alenka Bratušek, ministers and ministers have always stressed: we will solve the problems ourselves. We have the knowledge that we can solve problems ourselves. This is how we gained Brussels' trust. Today it appears, no matter what you say, colleagues and colleagues, that the European Commission, the European Central Bank trust us and believe in the programme presented by Slovenia, I stress, Slovenian, I emphasise, the Slovenian government. The OECD forecasts also say that we will record growth in 2015; it is said, after all, it is not as bad as some want to show. In addition to calming the situation and gaining the confidence of Brussels and the international financial markets, we have taken four measures in the area of the resolution of banking, and here I am going to the Ministry of Finance. These four measures are also part of the interpolation; some directly, others indirectly. The liquidation of two banks, we talked about it for hours and hours, and then I remember – I think we talked about the liquidation of these two banks at an extraordinary meeting for ten or twelve hours, the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment, one day earlier, and two hours earlier in a half-empty hall. And here those priorities saw where we were and what we wanted, what was sad. But about the liquidation of two banks, on the one hand, we had bankruptcy, on the other hand, liquidation. What does one thing mean, the minister said today, and even though we disagree with Minister Chufar about some things, it seems to me a man who only says some things once, and it's important to all of us whether we know how to listen and hear what he says, whether we don't know. In the event of bankruptcy, it would be necessary to return all deposits of up to EUR 100,000 in 20 days, a EUR 400 million speech. Deposits over EUR 100o thousand, including some municipalities, businesses, individuals All credits and all other liabilities would be blocked. [[...]] Thus, legal, natural persons, municipalities with deposits over a hundred thousand euros could not reach these deposits. What would that mean? In all likelihood of liquidity problems, but these liquidity problems would also cause some other problems, so that the company could have a problem in paying wages, in paying suppliers, in fact in carrying out its business. Common people would have other problems. All of this would result in some kind of mistrust in the banking system, despite how large or small these two banks are. And believe me, all those who have deposits of more than 100,000 euros in Slovenian banks and households, according to the Bank of Slovenia, would immediately raise these deposits for 15 billion euro deposits or deposits in Slovenian banks and bring them abroad. What would that mean? There would probably be no interpretation of the disaster, and today there would be no interpretation of it, because this government would never have been if it had done so. Therefore, the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance have decided to control the liquidation in which the bank is still in business, the loans are being repaid, the deposits are safe and the bank’s assets are being sold slowly, not headlong, because the first auction fails, the second fails and then the third auction sells some assets. The second measure prepared by the Ministry of Finance of Oziroma must also be said, we have all noticed that the Bank of Slovenia requested a review of the operations of both banks in the period 2006-2012 and it is not irrelevant that the National Assembly has adopted the Banking Act, in which we extend the limitation of four times. So, then, those who acted unlawfully will be persecuted. The second measure of this government is a very clear commitment to go to the sale of one of the banks; and this is Nova Kredittna banka Maribor. The third thing you want to report to this government that stress tests are being carried out in Slovenia because the European Commission and the European Central Bank do not trust this government is not true. The European Commission and the European Central Bank have already requested, in April May, two specific audit institutions to carry out stress tests because they do not trust Slovenia. Untrust is not lost in one or two months, but takes time to lose. And then there is the last measure, the Banking Act, which also provides State aid, as requested by the European Commission. These are the four measures by which the Government and the Ministry of Finance have managed to gain the confidence of European institutions and international financial markets. But it is always this but; these measures, this debt, this situation in the Slovenian economy, Slovenian banking, are consequences, the causes are elsewhere. Such a catastrophic situation does not happen overnight. In 2004, when Slovenia entered the European Union, we lost our goal, the Slovenian and Slovenian social contract. After entry into the EU, all roads were correct because there was no target, and after entry into the EU, for example, in 2004 the Slovenian economy was indebted for 9 billion, 2008 for 26 billion. And none of that! And the logical consequence is that banks couldn't finance it anymore. Banks were in debt abroad. Here is this original sin, in addition to the fact that during this period, well-intentionedly, we have also reduced the corporate income tax and the wages paid, and introduced vineyards, other children in kindergarten – free of charge, the three reforms of Pahorje, etc. etc. But if they were smart, really smart, they would forget it, they would say: what was, was, four years of the government of Janša, three years of the government of Pahor, one year of the government of Janša, 8 months of the government of Alenka Bratušek – everyone made some mistakes. Let's forget it! Let us meet, discuss and set five of the essential objectives that this country must achieve so that we do not fall again in the open. It seems to me that this is our last chance, and we can only solve this opportunity by cooperating, because no one can do us as bad as we can do ourselves, and no one can help us as we can help ourselves together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. However, Mr Marjan Pojbič, or before that, you have already raised your hand as a proposaler, Mr Cernač. Excuse me, Mrs. Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u132	Yes, it is hard to believe the credibility of the words of those who have worked differently all the time and have refused cooperation and open hands. Thus these are more public statements than real and well-intentioned statements. Regardless of all, I think yes; today is an opportunity, let's all share the interpretation, get another minister, say Dr. Janez Šuštersič, who will surely be able to repay Slovenia at substantially lower interest rates than we have seen today, and we will witness this in the years to come. This would be the right and effective way to work together. Only in this period of one year would we have reserves in the state budget for some 100 million euros, which we would still need in a bloody way for everything else that cannot be financed. So again you, a respected coalition, and not the opposition. We offer you a hand, this deadline is open until the final vote tonight and grab this opportunity. It has been said that the OECD is forecasting growth already in 2015, such a pianist optimistic data, including some media, would say the pianist trumpets of these governments, have been written as such. We will be the only one in this group to achieve growth in 2015, everyone else will be in 2014. Next year, we and Cyprus will be the ones that will be negative. This is real information to present it, of course, as we listened to it in the previous debate. Of course, that's a certain problem, but it's not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that all these measures, based on the direction of the financial policy of the current Minister of Finance, are going in the direction of not allowing the banking system to be adequately rehabilitated within the expected deadlines. This will prolong these credits and will continue to result in poor business both in banks and in the economy. The results in banks in the period January–September, losses of 567 million compared to 115 million in the same period last year, say their credit potential decline in the same period this year for two billion €400 million. This is all data – and, of course, the deposit decline. It didn't stop those indicators, according to you, from properly shutting down two private banks in nothing. And interesting! Here it was said, this decision was correct – to liquidate two banks – and then listed: deposits are left in banks, interest is paid, credits are returned Wait! [[…]] Then why are these two banks in trouble if all this is going on? If those who have received credit pay off loans if payment traffic is in progress – then why are they problematic? Why, then, are they problematic, and why was it necessary to stop them because you are incapable of doing business on the Slovenian market? The truth is probably different. The problem is, these loans didn't come back, they were split in nice eyes, and now they're going to be paid off by people. That is a fact and we have opposed it. If this decision had already been taken as the most appropriate, then they should be the first in line to give all their assets, owners for these banks, members of administrations and members of the Supervisory Board. You! Then everyone else is over 100,000 euros, and then it's just taxpayers or the state, not the way it is now - a reverse order! Reverse order, sorry, I don't even know how much you're talking about how the owners are going to lose the most. So far, no one has said whether Mr Rigelnik will lose EUR 6.9 million in dividends that he paid in the summer from one of the company owners of the Factor Bank. He won't! And a lot of others don't. Will all those who have not returned credits, including one of Jankovic's companies or companies of his sons and many others, really return these loans? They won't, no. But if it wasn't for these banks, there would be no problem if they were to repay their loans. This was obvious and still not all the answers that we will require until the end of this debate, including the responses of colleagues, such as Mr Hroat and others.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! Members of New Slovenia have already asked the minister a number of questions today, but unfortunately we have not yet received the answer, so perhaps I will repeat some things because we are really interested and would like to. Mr Minister, in the New Slovenia Group, we are sure that you knew very much about the operation of the Factor Bank and Probank. You also knew that both banks were in trouble, as well as that they were capital-inadequate. Most importantly, they have owners who are not prepared to rescue these banks. I am sure that you knew all of this, so I ask you, Mr Minister, whether it seems understandable to you that the state is depositing deposits in banks whose owners themselves do not believe in the existence of these banks. This has also been proved in this way. On the one hand, this reminds me of two years ago when we heard that Banka Slovenije was buying Greek bonds, with the knowledge that Greece was in a deep financial and economic crisis and that they were some skeletons from the closet. And you can see we're still doing the same things. I mean, we're also worried about not learning to see what's right and what's wrong. So I'm asking you if there's any more normal way for both banks to go to Factor and Probank first and then decide whether you're going to put both banks in bankruptcy or decide to take control of the liquidation. If the bank were to first set up a compulsory administration to review the operation of both banks, I think it would be much easier to determine what is best and most appropriate for Slovenia at this time. Then Mr. Secretary. Do you believe that the collapse of banks with a total of 4% of the market share could jeopardise the Slovenian banking system? The data that 99.5% of the members of these banks are under 100,000 and for whom the Governor said that the average role of these committees is EUR 11 000, so this is 99.5% of the committees, representing approximately 35,000 commissioners and all of them have under 100,000 euros guaranteed by the State. On the other hand, you have 175 influential individuals and businesses, representing about 0.5% of all the committees and having more than 100,000 euros in these two banks. The possible bankruptcy and collapse of these two banks would therefore affect only 0.5% of the committees or 175 important people and businesses, which in this case must be very influential by these individuals, these 175 companies. The fact is that the termination of both banks should be carried out in bankruptcy proceedings. In fact, the essence of the liquidation procedure is that all creditors are paid and that is why it is only possible to terminate one of the banks if funds are provided in the bank's assets to pay those creditors. These funds were not available in both banks and the Minister of Finance has apparently provided, in agreement with the Governor of Banja Slovenia, all the necessary funds for the payment of these creditors. To this end, a guarantee has been issued for both banks amounting to over EUR billion, with the fact that it is now clear that the missing funds for the payment of all creditors will be over 400 million and actually paid from the budget, i.e. from the taxpayer's money. On the other hand, I can only say that this is an easy and easy waste of taxpayer's money to cover bank losses, when on the other hand we do not have money for social transfers and for state pensions. In New Slovenia we are convinced that each individual is responsible for the work he is doing. The highest officials are particularly responsible, and for their actions and decisions they will have to take responsibility, and in this case the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, is also in this. In short, once again, this is an easy waste of taxpayer money to cover bank losses. Where are the social transfers? Where are the state pensions? And those who are most affected by all of this at this point in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u135	Mr. Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam Vice President! I have to start by saying that I'm going to support this interpolation. At the outset, perhaps a few sentences about what has been heard in Parliament today, from Jankovic's list, then the Social Democrats and some other debaters, that this session is not necessary, that it is a waste of time, that it is a theatre and I do not know what else. Those who have spoken and spoken and thought that way, I think you have nothing to look for in this House. This is extremely irresponsible of our citizens and citizens. I think the topic of public finances is extremely important. We live at a time when this situation in our country is extremely problematic, very bad. What the President of the government says is that everything is fine, that everything is in order, is extremely confused with every healthy logic and common sense. Among other things, Mrs President said today: "We are not on track, we are on the right track. Those of you who call for foreign help are ignorant. Minister Cuffer has my full support, he's a great minister, and the interpretation is completely unfounded." So, Madam President of the Government has allowed herself to use the term "you are without knowledge". A person who has huge problems facing the Slovenian public, huge problems because we all know what problems she had with her master's assignment; we all know that a complex Slovenian nation knows. And such a person says we have no knowledge! I do not claim to be a financier, I have never said that, and I never will, but I am sure that we have quite a few capable people in our parliamentary group, who, however, have very good and quality financial management. Well, let me get back to the part where Madam President said that the interpretation was completely unfounded. Today we have written in the Evening Clock that we have yet another great black forecast for the future of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be a good idea for anyone to read it. I'm going to read a few things from this article. This is the OECD report, among other things: "Another year of recession is clearly forecasting us in 2014, this was announced by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD yesterday two weeks after the European Commission." Among other things, it says: "This is how we are the only members of this 40-year-old international organisation to be in crisis next year. Otherwise, Cyprus will work for us in the EU, which is not a member of the OECD." The forecast for Slovenia is therefore worse than the forecast in the global economy, where growth will be 3.6%, and worse than the OECD forecast, where growth will be 2.3%, and the forecast for the euro area where 1% of economic growth will be. At the same time, it tells us: private consumption is expected to fall by 3.5% next year. The OECD is forecasting a public debt of 70,5 % of GDP per year for 2014 and 74,7 % for 2015. And now, how did the OECD justify such a vague forecast for Slovenia? Delays in bank recovery, debt in the enterprise sector and fiscal consolidation of domestic demand undermining, the labour market remains weak and confidence remains low despite slight improvement. The OECD thus warns that Slovenian banks are still not doing their job and that we are still suffering from a credit crunch. Loans to the private sector continue to decline, interest rates on new business loans are strong above the euro area average. Moreover, the Slovenian government also warns, so the OECD cautions it not to be overexpenditured with taxpayers' money when transferring bad loans from NLB, NKBM and A banks to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. So, for this OECD report, I think that there is a reason enough that, in addition to all those arguments that have been mentioned before, which were listed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I think there is absolutely enough reason for us to be concerned. Not only should the intervention be voted on by the Minister of Finance, but also by Alenka Bratušek. If we come from this OECD report, we can find that the credit crunch remains, businesses cannot normally be in debt; therefore, there are no new jobs, as a result of which companies are falling, that social pressures in Slovenia are also increasing if there are no new jobs, and they are even falling. It is said that we can also expect an increase in unemployment and so on. If anyone else in this country can claim that this situation that I am talking about is normal and that we are doing well – before I heard it, someone from Jankovic's list read the headlines on how Europe supports us, how the European Commission supports us, and so on, that this government and Minister Cuffer at the head of the First Minister are doing well and doing well. I'm sure after what I just said, and after what my colleagues said, it's a long way from that truth. This is the perfect and tasteless deception of the Slovenian people and of the Slovenian people. I am sure that if necessary, we will have 10, 20, 25 or 30 or 50 such meetings to convince the Slovenian government and the coalition that it will start thinking differently, that it will also listen to the opposition that the solutions they accept do not go in the right direction and do not go in the interests of our citizens and citizens. It is necessary for the coalition and the government to know this before the Slovenian state completely fails. Following these new commitments that we pay EUR 225 million in interest for a billion and a half in three years, that is a quarter of a billion euros. Can you imagine what this means for a Slovenian man? Every Slovenian will pay 30 Euros for this lease only for the repayment of interest on this loan, every citizen and citizen! You don't think there's anything completely at stake here. It's amazing where you live! Do you really have headphones on your ears, or do you not read? I think it's about time we really did it. You asked us to come together today. One of Jankovic's letters said I was the one talking about how we should get together. I definitely agree, absolutely! And I ask you to really come together for our country of Slovenia, but not in such a way that this government and coalition, as well as Mr. Minister, will continue to defend and protect those individuals who have stolen the entire banking system that they have stolen, have practically emptied all the banks! Why should we not have the opportunity to get this key information – which is of exceptional importance to each of us, as well as to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia – who it is, regardless of which customer it is from – we know roughly who they are - and who the borrower is and which uncle called the bankers from behind and told them who they can give the unsecured credit to and who they can't. Why shouldn't we have this information? Finally, when I talked about this new debt – again taxpayers, once again those who have the least – these are socially threatened with 450 euros of pensions, not to mention those who are on a minimum wage, not to mention all these groups, will pay Taiwanese, mafia transactions both in Probank and in Factor Bank and in other banks. If that's fair, if that's fair, if that's social justice, if that's how this government and this minister understands the social justice of this country, then God help us in what country we live in. For this reason, once again, I will support the interpretation of the Financial Minister, Mr Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u138	Dear Mr. Pojbich! I know you have it in your community. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u139	He'll explain. You'll explain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u140	It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u141	Yeah. I'm saying you'll explain the replica because they want to know what replica it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u142	Oh, the replica! I'll explain right away. Given the social threats in your environment, you've been saying how they're going to endure all these decisions today. However, I wonder how you will explain to them that you support your high-ranking official having two high incomes, not one, but two. Interpellation is one of the important points of what's going on with mags. Wide. And you support this interpolation, that's what you said. How will you explain to your people that you support one of your two high incomes?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica, I'm sorry. Mr Richard Braniselj is the next to be reported, followed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much. My friend Pojbič, I'm glad you know who the perpetrators of the crime are, the thefts in the banking system, and I expect you to prepare criminal charges, and I will even help you if you want. We want to have names, we want to have criminal charges, and things are about to start to go public. As far as the subject is concerned, we're talking about interpretation. Interpellation is some sort of conviction, an indictment of the minister in front of the National Assembly. On each such charge, charges must be taken. The prosecution is talking about two things: we are talking about the liquidation of Factor Bank and Probank and we are talking about personnel matters concerning the personnel of the SDS party. In today's debate, there are a number of accusations against a minister who does not today, at this moment, in this indictment, which he is called a proposal, there is no link. The minister was not aware of what he would have to answer today, and he adhered to what you read to him, for otherwise he would probably have prepared himself for a lot of other things. The only relevant question at this point is, to which I think he answered a long time ago, and the professional public also answered – would public finances be better off in liquidation or bankruptcy? I think that's what we're talking about. We had an extraordinary session on this subject, where more than a clear answer was given. More than 95% of experts in Slovenia can give a clear answer at this time and it is a shame to lose words about it. The next item was irrelevant questions that have been raised during the present day. I do not mean 'insignificant' from this point of view that they are not worth the answers, of course they are valuable, but irrelevant in the sense that the Minister cannot respond to them because they are not relevant in this interpretation. "Did the owners pay off their dividends?" What does this have to do with interpolation? The answer and this question or fact, if this is – but this is – is the aspect of the compensation responsibility of those who have managed this bank and who will be responsible for all the things they have done unlawfully. Will these dividends be returned, or will they respond with their assets — I hope they will — to the detriment of the creditors. At the moment, these creditors are the Republic of Slovenia and the budget. "Who were the committee members of this bank?" It's an irrelevant question. An important issue is for law enforcement authorities who have to deal with these stories, and a minor issue is for the Minister. Perhaps the minister did not decide or should not have made a decision on the basis of the choice he would choose as to who the committees were. Nothing happened to these commissioners, actually. "Who has deposits over 100,000 euros?" Why are you asking this right now? It's bank secrecy. This will be asked by criminals, police, the prosecution, the NPU, the specialized state prosecutor's office, all those who are not bound by banking secrecy and have insights. I don't need this information because I have nothing to do with it, except, of course, for some political matters. "What about bank secrecy?" You want this bank secrecy released, all of us who have five minutes of time going to write credit cards on some banks and interpret things in our own way and so on. It's a collapse of the banking system. It's an alphabet that can't be done in banks. Who else will bring you a deposit if it depends on whether someone remembers here in the National Assembly and gives you a green light and let's go watch the maps! These credit folders have the access they need to have right now. I'm sure they'll do their job. "Injury Research" – not the minister who will go to the damage to look back, but the competent institutions. Of course, the relevant question is: Who did not foresee in due time that something was wrong with these banks? Does Shirtzelj’s colleague, who has been for some time or perhaps someone before or someone else before, bear part of his responsibility? Certainly bears part of the responsibility of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, whom you have appointed, and thank God that a good combination has been found in the current governor and current minister, who have responded in a timely, quick, prompt and decisive manner. And one more thing, they reacted by not discussing it six months earlier. And that's how the banking system is being resolved. At this point, I see no reason to support the interpretation, and I am going to vote against Dr. Uroš Chufer's Minister of Finance getting rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. In fact, I'm going to start where one of the predecessors ended when he appealed that he wanted us to start thinking about this government differently. I'll say these calls are a little late, because this government has already proven to be thinking differently. Last but not least, this shift in thinking has also received a positive signal from Brussels. Different thinking is also indicated in a different policy concept: from a clean tightening of the belt to a policy of combined, reasonable saving and also investment. But let's do it in order. [[...]] Interpellation is absolutely legitimate, respected colleagues and colleagues, however, the reasons for the interpretation you provide are: for the first time – flawed, for the second time – unjustifiable and for the third time – unjustified. Mr Potočnik said in his opening remarks on the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia that the applicant had even missed the title. First, the SDS interpels the Minister of Finance for the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia or the Government as a whole, and secondly, the SDS interpels the Minister of Finance for the decision of the Government, which dismissed the SDS Member of Shirtzl for incompatibilities with the role of the non-executive director of the so-called bad bank. I will justify the discharge of my colleague Shirtzl; the irreconcilability of functions lays down both the Law on Members and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. I repeat what has already been said several times today: the Law on Members clearly stipulates that a Member must not be a member of the Council of State at the same time, nor must he perform any other function or work in the public authorities, that he may not perform the functions of mayor and parishioner in the municipality, nor may he carry out a gainful activity which is legally incompatible with the administration of a public function, except for a fifth part, and cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board of the Economic Society. Therefore, after all the restrictions laid down by law, the Member of Parliament, according to interpretations of the SDS, cannot be anything but a non-executive director of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Well, yeah! It's hard for me to call it yes. In addition to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also summarized in the decision, allow me to read in this part only this conclusion, from which the incompatibilities of both functions are practically reaffirmed. "According to the fact that the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks has not excluded the application of the Law on Members, which states that Members must not exercise control functions in companies, including the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and, on the other hand, the non-executive directors of those same companies act as the Supervisory Board, are members of the Member State and members of the Management Board of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, therefore the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the reason for the discharge is given." Pika. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The non-trustees have even given your interpretation, specifically in this work, to the opposition partners. The SLS made it very clear that "Qadroval matters do not belong to interpolation," so interpolation was not supported. I continue on the proposaler's side or with the proposaler's words: "Today we are talking about what will happen to this country in so many years and so, in view of the decisions we are making today." End of story. I say: for the first time, Slovenia will undoubtedly survive without a colleague of Shirtzl in the position of the non-executive director of the bad bank. Secondly, 'this government is taking a decisive step in addressing the challenges in the banking sector, in structural reforms and fiscal policy, so that it can turn the wheel of happiness and achieve economic conversion'. Those are not my words, this is the Commissioner's quote for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Ollie Rehn. Moreover, respected colleagues and colleagues, in relation to the banking sector, Rehn pointed out that the outcome of the asset quality review and the burden tests of Slovenian banks, so-called stress tests, would be known in early December and that they would only be able to accurately assess the situation in the banking sector at that time. However, he considered that Slovenia was already acting decisively and effectively. Strong and effective. The European Commission and the European Central Bank strongly support Slovenian efforts in his words. The Slovenian Government and the Central Bank are working hard to do what they can. I believe it's been practically all day today, not just today, because it's been dragging for a week, 14 days, we're listening to SDS pain, nothing else. The pain of all those who are actually massaging or massaging their performances today with unwarranted flossules – and I will try to summarize the words of one or one of the opposition’s speakers – this government does not know what it is doing in the budget, the budget is unrealistic. Allow me not to think of how unrealistic the budget adopted by this government is. It's the data from Brussels again. "The Slovenian budget proposal in accordance with the rules, action seems to be effective." Only that I will not read whole files or reports from Brussels – although Slovenia is generally estimated to be among the better countries according to Rehn's budget map, in a group that is in line with European rules elsewhere. I wonder if this is because this government has adopted an unrealistic budget. I find it hard to believe, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the best group of countries whose budgets are in line with the rules, Estonia and Germany are. In another group of countries whose budgets are in line with the rules, but the Commission reminds them that they do not have room for derogations and they need to be careful that there are no slides, Slovenia is. In another group, in the company of France and the Netherlands! and it is true that the Commission calls on the three to implement the budget in a consistent manner. But, as it is said, the Slovenian budget proposal is in line with the rules, action seems to be effective. I must say that I myself am not most pleased because this government, my government, must take crisis measures, measures that undoubtedly mean such or other pressure on people. That's a fact. That's beyond a doubt. But you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, these are the consequences of past missed decisions or policies. Untimely or improper action by past politicians, left and right, I will not talk about either lions or rights, and some of the ministers who have participated in these past governments, you are also here today, sitting with us, and I believe that you are also carrying the pinnacle of responsibility for being in the situation we are in today. When, dear colleagues, are you so fond of mentioning the government of Alenka Bratušek — what did the government of Alenka Bratušek do in seven months of error? Once again, I'm going to repeat the sentence that I began to make an absolute conversion under the rule of Alenka Bratušek. We have received confirmation from the European Union that we are going in the right direction – the European Commission, I apologize. Not only the European Commission, but also the international financial markets. Colleagues and colleagues, if this is not a positive signal, once again, I believe that this is your pain because you have failed in a very long time to do what the government of Alenka Bratusek has done in seven months. For the current government, seven, eight months of work and – yes, the government has actually done the most that can be done at that time. It has drawn up, once again, a real rebalancing for 2013, a good and real budget for 2014 and 2015, everything necessary for the resolution of the banking system, provided the money to pay for all the country's liabilities, with full steam, this government has gone to the grey economy and tax evasion. I believe you know that in the coming days we will have a whole package of legislation in this area, and I hope that at least then we will be able to come together and support another positive action by this government that proves that this government is serious. As it is said, good work is also confirmed by the European Commission's report. Not to be forgotten, under this government or, if I say so, this government has also succeeded in halting the decline in gross social product growth. Today, I have heard, among other things, in the debate of my colleague Bogovic, that what this government is doing is a long-term threat to the social state. I'd say the other way around. What the government of Alenka Bratušek does is to preserve the social state for a long time. If we followed the SDS calls after three, that would undoubtedly mean a loss of sovereignty. I believe we're all aware of this together. Asking for international assistance means, and now I will say domestically, to conclude nothing but some kind of contractual relationship. Yes, it is true that money could get cheaper, but it would also get very serious requirements that mean sharp and uncompromising structural changes. If we have learned nothing from the case of Greece, then [[...]] Last but not least, the IMF has made a very clear message of what the troika's arrival in a country means. Like, potentially even in Slovenia. I'll mention four areas. The first area is pensions or pensioners. The second area is public education, which is required by the OECD. The third area is social transfers or intervention in social transfers. And last but not least, an intervention in minimum wage. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we don't want that, and we won't let that happen. Therefore, the allegations that we are unsocial are, to say the least, unfounded because of all the measures that have been taken in the last period of the National Assembly. I would like to say that, as a result of these measures, we are maintaining the level of the social state. It is true, however, that we know several models of the social state in Europe or in the world. After the independence or after the change of the political and economic system in Slovenia, we were faced or faced new problems that we had not known in the early 1990s. Unemployment, poverty, income inequality, for which no doubt the State had to adopt new measures, accelerated retirement, employment measures for unemployment, an active employment policy, which, on the other hand, increased expenditure on social transfers. In 1991, a social programme was adopted where our country moved to a corporate model or type of state of prosperity. According to this model, adopted in 1991, the responsibility for ensuring social security should be transferred from country to country, for which, of course, the country or I should say, the State must also provide opportunities. Why did I mention that? Because in 2005, when the first Janšev government was in power, the goal or strategy for the development of Slovenia was adopted, which stated: the role of the State was reduced and the responsibility of the individual for his or her own social security was increased. The amendments have not been fully implemented. In 2010, however, the Slovenian exit strategy with the so-called activation model of social policy was adopted. And this activation model of social policy is also followed by measures under social protection legislation, which, as we say, will be adopted in the coming days. What is important to me in this context of social policy or social security in times of crisis is whether it is absolutely among the most important matters that an individual, vulnerable groups in crisis, should not be left alone. This, however, can be achieved by means of solidarity-based insurance schemes and, of course, by legislation on job protection that protects workers from losing their jobs, or by monetary social assistance in the event of unemployment. All these mechanisms, or all these mechanisms, are supported, and I believe we know that again, through taxes and the burden of active ones. This is the solidarity system we have in our country. We have committed ourselves not to interfere with social rights in legislation. On the contrary, with new social protection legislation or social security changes, we raise the level of social protection for the most vulnerable groups. And if, when you tell us your colleagues and your colleagues from the opposition where the crater remained, I hope to say that the crater has remained from a terrible bomb because of the ZUJF. In order not to be too long, only four categories will be mentioned in this Crater ZUJF: the unemployment allowance has been reduced, the time or time taken to compensate for unemployment has been reduced, the hospital, maintenance, maternity and so on. I will slowly conclude, my fellow Members and colleagues, but you know, I would also like to justify the inequitableness of your interpretation against the Minister of Finance, who, as mentioned earlier today, has also proved himself on the international floor as a good minister, who has shown that Slovenia can move things in a positive direction on its own, without the help of the European Troika. I truly believe in the seriousness and purity of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek's intention. That's what I'm thinking about, especially her sentence, that we can do it on our own. Unwarranted SDS and false comparisons, nor will I say wrong comparisons, the more harmful SDS calls after three, after the troika has arrived in our country, any such call has no doubt a negative impact on confidence in our country by the international public or, above all, international institutions. To substantiate that this is indeed how I will remind you of last year's statements by the Financial Times officer, who took the words of the then President Janez Janša, who threatened with a Greek script if the opposition in parliament does not support changes to stabilise public finances. You know, such overblown negative rhetoric scares the markets, unfortunately, international markets operate in such a way. As a result of the Financial Times, the interest rate on the five-year Slovenian bond jumped from 5.1% to 6.2% over the whole period for the good EUR 50 million. That is also why, once again, I justify, because of such work in the past that this government has achieved a positive turnaround. If you allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to conclude, if there is no trust, there is no respect or no respect, there is no trust in my own country or in my own nation. I also believe that the ability to respect the ability to go beyond self-centered self-esteem is an option. Many cannot do that, and I believe that what we are hearing from the opposition today is, in fact, just a cry of pain. On the other hand, I do not understand what is wrong with a person or with people who deliberately mutilate their own country, send negative signals to the world, and not only do they threaten the arrival of a threesome. And that despite the fact that these people, or this person, are aware of what it means to have a threesome come into our country. I will recapture a sentence from the past on 31 August 2012, when SDS President Janez Janša was still in power, that is, the Prime Minister of the Government. I quote: "Believe, any Slovenian government will still be much more social than the kindest dictatorship of the troika. So if there is a chance to avoid it, it is worth a try." That's it, that's it, that's different today. But, colleagues and colleagues, we believe – the government of Alenka Bratušek and this government coalition, including the minister, because you are interpreting it today – we believe that there is a possibility. So not only will we try, but we will do everything we can to maintain our sovereignty. Therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues, even these interpretations, which, as we have heard several times today, are unfounded, I will not absolutely support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach on behalf of the proposer. After him, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u148	All these long discussions and arguments, I think it is best to neutralise with one simple graph published on Eurostat's website. This is a graph talking about the profits on Slovenian ten-year bonds. And speaking, which we have listened to earlier, can be very easy to deny by looking at where this bond rating was in early 2012. When John Janša’s second government was appointed, this premium began to fall sharply. After the complications created by the then opposition, the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats began, blocking the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act, pension reform and, above all, poor banks, this bond rating began to rise again. And he began to fall again after these blockades were lifted, when the law was passed, and when the threats to the referendum and everyone else were eliminated. This is where we get to this lowest point, slightly over 4% at the beginning of this year. Here's the point where the "virtue" begins. Then a slight increase, but still significantly less growth in the time of the government of Janez Janša with limited powers than then increase when the government of Alenka Bratusek was granted full powers. Thus, markets were more entrusted to the government with the limited powers of Janez Janša than to the government of Alenka Bratušek with full powers. Why? Because she spoke in the National Assembly — you know what? – The end of this uncompromising savings, we have to stop, stop, start looking at things differently, raise taxes and so on. Of course, the markets responded immediately and the result is where we are today. This graph speaks of the degree of our sovereignty. Under the government of Janez Janša, this degree of sovereignty was good, high, but now it is very low, because the price of our debt is significantly higher than it should have been. And we're talking about two different things. We are talking about the European Bank Resolution Mechanism, which was established at the end of 2012 and has not yet been established in June 2012. We are constantly asking ourselves, even through today's debate, why the Minister of Finance, as the chief guardian of public finances, has so strongly stepped up the entry into this mechanism that would facilitate the servicing of public debt and the taking of new commitments, and in particular allow for an appropriate room of manoeuvre for everything else that this country must do in the future. Why? There is no answer to that question. Once again, are you, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, significantly more sovereign if you pay off the loan at a 6% interest rate, or are you significantly more sovereign if you pay it at 1% interest rate? And once again, one question that we don't get an answer to - why did the Minister of May increase deposits in the two banks that were found to have to be closed for 109 million? How many bills go into 109 million euros? How many bills can people not pay go to 109 million euros? 100 grand? A million? It's huge! That's what we're talking about today. It is therefore unworthy of us to speak of this debate as unnecessary, wrong to see the grounds for interpolation unjustified and unjustified. It is incomprehensible, though, that the minister does not want to give an answer — he does not or does not know how to answer certain questions, even some of which we read about in the media. At the time we are discussing this, we have already received through the mouth of other representatives of the Government the answers to the questions that he is carefully hiding, I do not know why and why we have not received the answers 10 or 12 hours in the course of today's debate. Yes, there has been a turn under the government of Alenka Bratusek. You can see this turn here. This is the turning point — the profits have risen rapidly. That's the first turn. The second conversion is that the level of indebtedness has increased; from the previously projected 3 billion this year to more than 4 billion, to 10 billion in 2014 and the next major conversion is that this Minister of Finance and this Government has drawn its policy mainly on the policy of increasing taxes and higher burdens on the population and the economy, also because he does not have a balance of income and expenditure because he is running out of money to pay these enormously high interest. Why do we have to have these higher taxes and these enormous burdens? Just because it insists on this policy of expensive debt and this shift does not work out, we get higher VAT, we get a property tax, we get higher taxes, we get higher road taxes, we get higher prices of vineyards, you've already reduced the minimum wage through the amendment of the Income Act. That's not what a threesome has to say when you talk about what should be done if you enter the mechanism, and it was said, you should do a pension reform. Your Prime Minister announced it days ago. Intervention into education – we are being affected by schooling. The minimum wage should be adjusted – you corrected it by amending the Income Act and reduced it by some €10. And so on. One of the essential requirements, which is not even an unjustified and unjustified requirement, is to privatise what the state does not need to function and what is already going on too slowly, but is happening. So, we look forward to this common joy of yours that, as far as the paper composition of the 2014 budget is concerned, we are in the group of other most successful countries. Great. We share this optimism, but we would be much more pleased – but by the way, the Austrians are behind us, the Austrians are at this point in the 2014 budget were assessed worse than Slovenia. Interesting. But I'd be a lot more pleased if we were there in the group with them, and we'd be close to them because they have 0.35% interest on 10-year bonds and we have 6%. Much, much happier and much more sovereign would feel in such a case. As for the executive directors and what kind of function they're dealing with. You just have to read the laws. This law on the so-called "bad bank" states in Article 8(3): "Despite the provisions of the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, the non-executive directors of the Management Board shall not be subject to the provisions of that law, which provide that a professional official may not be a member or engage in activities of supervision and representation in companies." Non-executive directors shall be members of this Management Board and shall not exercise supervisory functions in a bad bank where you have taken the view that a member of the Supervisory Board of the company cannot perform this function if he is a Member. Because the supervision of the so-called bad bank under Article 4 of this Law is carried out by the Ministry responsible for finance. And discharge under Article 8, paragraph 8, is possible only if the legal conditions are met. In this case, we claim they weren't.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Replica Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u150	Very briefly. I didn't even flatter myself to try to understand or understand what I was going to say, but because we're used to it. If you decide the sun is black, the sun will be black and we can take it out of the sky and bring it to you in front of your eyes, and you'll still say the sun is black. If you'll excuse me, yes, very briefly. I believe that we are all aware together that we are maintaining sovereignty until we release the European Troika into our country. It may sound ironic, but as long as you have the chance to owe yourself, without some serious pressure and orders, what you have to do to get the money at maybe a little lower interest rate, I believe you're maintaining sovereignty. And that, once again, as ironic as it sounds, is positive. I mentioned the case of Greece, but I won't do it. I believe that we are aware, as well as citizens and citizens, of what it means to get very clear instructions without derogation from severe structural reforms, which would have very concrete implications for pensions, the public education system, etc., so that I do not continue. Why do you need taxes? Yes, even so that education remains public and accessible to all. Even to keep health care at the level we have, public and accessible to all, under the same conditions. And if you want, respected colleagues and colleagues, turn — yes. I believe we've had a turning point. Also in the positive rhetoric of President Alenka Bratusek, who has confidence in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar is next to have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u152	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to ask Minister Chufer any questions today. Since 9 a.m., it is said in eleven hours, there have been many constructive, many questions related to the situation, the financial situation of our country, many questions related to our future, but the Minister himself has not answered any questions. I believe that any question raised on the basis of the real fact that it is a great problem for the Minister to speak. I believe that the issue raised in the real facts is also a major problem for the Government, so the strategy of Minister Cuffer is very clear to me and in this situation the only way out. That is to say, wrap yourself in silence and thereby do to yourself and the government the least harm. Because we do not get any answer from the Minister, I will ask the Slovenian citizens myself, and I will ask them some questions. I will ask the Slovenian citizens whether Minister Cuffer answered them why he did not send private Factor Banks and Probanks to bankruptcy. I will ask Slovenian citizens if Minister Cuffer has answered me why he will spend over 400 million taxpayers' money to save private banks. I will ask the Slovenian citizens if Minister Chufer has answered them why it does not speed up the operation of a bad bank to bring to the surface those who generously shared Taiwanese loans. I ask Slovenian citizens whether Minister Chufer has answered them why he is misleading the public and the professionals with an unrealistic budget and thus prejudges excessive indebtedness. I ask Slovenian citizens whether Minister Cuffer has answered them how much he will owe our children in the future. I'm asking further questions as to how much Minister Cuffer will owe our grandchildren in the future, because it's a huge debt. In this short time, we can easily calculate that the circus is a billion 200 per month, such a rapid debt in the Republic of Slovenia in all history. I ask Slovenian citizens if Minister Chufer has answered them where and for what purpose he has borrowed a billion 500 million loans at an extremely high interest rate. I ask Slovenian citizens if Minister Chufer has replied to them that he has committed 220 million loans or 220 million interest to the lender in three years. This is a very nice money and an extremely good deal for the lender. I will ask Slovenian citizens if Minister Chufer has answered them why he has not initiated a procedure of responsibility against the former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, because the Governor's concern is that in the country he cares about a stable banking system. As early as this spring, the governor deceived the Slovenian public that all banks were fine and that the banking system in Slovenia was stable, even though they knew what was going on with these two banks. I ask Slovenian citizens if Minister Chufer has replied to them, to what extent the tax measures of Slovenian citizens to charge the budget will go. In short, there's a lot of questions that Minister Chufer doesn't want to answer. Slovenian citizens should decide for themselves if this is worthy of a minister. Of course, I will support the interpellation against Minister Chufer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Alenka Bikar. Behind it are Mr Jerko Čehovin, then Mr Franz Breznik. Mrs. Alenka Bikar is not here. Procedurally, please, Mr. Jože Tanko. Mr. Žnidar, if you can turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! We are now here for a long number of hours, asking the Minister to explain the data to tell us on which criteria the decision to control liquidation is financially more appropriate than bankruptcy. The minister doesn't speak, he doesn't speak, he doesn't speak. I would also like to explain why, in May, when it was already known to all that the banks would fail in one way or another, 109 million euros had been invested in these two banks, why they had hung meat on skeletons. There are no answers and I am surprised that the most responsible person in this country for public finances is unable to argue two such simple matters. We have two choices or we have, whether it is liquidation or bankruptcy, and the Minister of Finance is not in a position to present to the members of the National Assembly the calculation which model is more favourable. That's what you say. You're doing it in your head. If you're thinking about it, you're working for a reason. The reasons he said were inappropriate, because it is a decision for a significantly more expensive model. Nor is he able to tell the minister after 10, 11 hours why he had already given 109 million for the two banks, which went a month and a half or two months later in a controlled liquidation. What prompted this decision? That's the Minister's decision. Madam President, I propose that you invite the Minister to the National Assembly and that the Minister finally responds to why and how this country has earned this grace, that we have lost 109 million euros in May. It's dry. If we stayed with those original deposits, it would be 109 million less burden on this country because so much state money would be less on the deposits of these two banks. Why is the Minister unable to give these two, at least these two brief comments? And the minister who manages the money is the finance minister. Here are all the other people, all those who can't speak, who can come to paint, smile, who have nothing else to do, because they're not responsible for what we need, and the minister isn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u155	Mr Tanko, if I understand your procedural proposal correctly, it is your wish that Mr Minister will answer your questions that he is here. Since the Government also has its own office and premises in the National Assembly, we are also given the opportunity to be accompanied outside this debate room. However, I think it is nice that Mr Roman Jakič and both Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance are here with us. I'm sure the Minister has heard us and that he will have your wish, and I can't force him to answer, but he has a chance. Do you have any other procedural proposals? If you make a substantive explanation of this, as you are now, I would suggest that you apply to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President! Today we do not have Mr Jakic's interpretation in front of us. So we don't need a Minister of Defence in the National Assembly, because he can't answer, we don't need a left or right secretary of state in this Chamber, because he can't answer, he's not in charge. But we need a minister who hasn't been in this room for a long time and who hasn't said anything substantive. In ten, eleven hours, he spent exactly seventeen minutes standing up after a great effort and not saying anything. However, I have proposed, Madam President, that he be invited to the Chamber, so we have the Presidents. I suggest you do this because this is the only person who can answer Members' questions today, but he is not here. If he is not here, there are no conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The duty of the President, you, would be to suspend the session on your own without asking and proposing it and to ensure that we have the right answers here. What the Minister in the National Assembly has to do with it is to do it all, not for the first time, but it's proof of what kind of people you've appointed to the most responsible functions in this country. A whole bunch of ministers come to the National Assembly, but they don't answer — when it's his turn, he's gone. Here come people who are incompetent, not authorized to give answers and waste time just to keep this government site occupied and full. Minister Jakič obviously has no more important work than sitting for four hours in the National Assembly, at a point that does not concern him. Okay, apparently there's someone else in that hall over there who's government in the National Assembly, and she's sunning her legs and showing her legs, just like it was a day or two ago. Here I propose, Madam President, that you invite the Minister and say two answers to explain the numerical two things: Why did he give 109 million when everything was already known that the matter was going to fail? On the basis of what he chose the procedure — not bankruptcy, but controlled liquidation. Based on what financial criteria? Based on what econometric data? Based on what? Think about it! He's selling us dogma to make it better. I want him to say it. The balance, it's a control of liquidation and bankruptcy, costs and so on, to draw the line to see if it's really what it says [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Let me tell you that Dr. Chufer has been informed of your procedural proposal. When he is able, he will join us in the Chamber and, of course, when he assesses himself, he will give us the answers during the debate. I'm sorry, you probably weren't in the hall when the minister answered us on a few questions, including your fellow Members of your parliamentary group. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. This display of Mr Tank is, of course, extremely rude and unworthy. First of all, I'll start with at least three things. Allowing yourself to offend ministers and secretaries of state sitting in the National Assembly, as they did at all other interpretations, even when they were ministers of your kind, this side never allowed it and never did it, please, I am now speaking. [[...]] When you have your word, you will speak. Secondly, what is very important is that Mr Gorenak, when he had an interpretation here, went out and no one called him back. No one called to say he had to sit here uninterrupted, but we had a normal relationship that was always present at the interpolation. Thirdly, what seems very important to me is that you have started counting minutes and that they are important minutes for you, when you have already determined that you do not want to participate and that you will not support anything, but you are working a fool; forgive me, this is no longer worthy of this National Assembly. And please, if you have at least so many manners that, in the framework of parliamentary practice, what you have from the position you have, of course, allows you to act to this extent, not to provoke where you do not need to. The Minister will join us when he has made his own decision. But it's up to you to decide whether that's enough for you or not. He will also enter into a discussion under the rules of procedure at any time when he decides to do so and not when you say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal? Please, if you'll stick to the motion of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President! I understand that the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly is also at the same time the largest coalition parliamentary group is a little nervous. And so would I if our ministers were like that. Mr. Gorenak, if you mention him, defended the interpretation here himself. They were ministers, there's no problem, but she was defended by the interpolation and answered you, so at the end of the day you stayed and didn't even spend it. However, at the very least, the President-in-Office, who owes us and asks him for 11 hours, is better than what criteria the model he has chosen than what we have proposed and would like to be calculated for that purpose. So, financials count data, including budget balance is data, has a left, right and balance at the end. There we see where to go for money when appetites are too big, and in this budget they are too big. We ask on what basis this is more favourable – we have not been able to obtain – and ask why he put 109 million in two projects in May, two banks that are now failing. However, he also had audit reports back where it was pointed out that both banks were seriously ill. Did anyone screw the minister, according to his household, say he did it? Did anyone come to him and tell him to do it? Is that what the Ministry staff did to him? We need an answer. One of these events must have happened. Either someone came to order him and could not withdraw, whether he had knowingly done so or he had been framed and had been signed by some other persons. A simple answer that we can't get for 11 hours! I do not understand that the Ministry, the Minister, hides information about one of the biggest blunders in the Slovenian banking system. That's the problem. You can't expect us to, anyone who comes with any request I have to get from us a biocommunal without data and without arguments. What's going on here in defense of this interpolation is exactly what you're saying: without arguments you're defending it, the minister has escaped because he's in serious trouble, and the rest of you are talking about a social situation that has nothing to do with this interpolation. We need, if not another, two figures, which is why it is a more favourable option that he has chosen and who framed him 109 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I think the Minister will coordinate the matter in such a way that it is right. Let me also remind you that there is also a magnetogram of his reply, indeed during the meeting, which some colleagues and colleagues failed to be in the hall at the time, but gave some answers. Mr. Jerko Chehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you, Madam Vice President! We are attending one of the most boring sessions in the National Assembly, and I must say that I am not surprised that the Minister is not here. But I can see that Minister Jakič, who you're probably preparing, is probably a dry exercise for the next interpolation. Today we have heard many things and, among other things, we have come to or come to the conclusion that when we deal with similar matters around banks here, there are certain investigations in the field. Given that today there are two investigations, one in Styria, the other in Primorsk, I suggest you put in more interpretations, because this will greatly accelerate the functioning of the criminal service and we will try very hard to solve all these accumulated problems. If this was a contribution, this interpellation to it is the only actual result of your desire. I told the Minister earlier not to worry because this interpretation was not made today or yesterday, this interpolation was made the moment you decided to give her consent to appoint you as Minister. It doesn't matter whether you're Dr. Urosh Chouffer or Dr. Chufer Urosh or even Dr. Shoru Refuch. This is just according to the agenda of the biggest opposition party, it is already predestined somewhere, that sooner or later someone will come to the interpolation. It is very difficult to answer about arguments because there are no arguments in this interpretation. Half of the claims you have raised could be answered on your own, resulting from the financial situation in the past periods. If we remember, for the past ten years, we have had some financial problems in this country, with public finances, of which at least half of you were in power, and you had all the leverage to lay a more sound foundation for the functioning of the entire financial system. What Minister Chufer, the current government, is doing is solving the accumulated problems of the previous governments, which you have greatly helped to create. They want to or they don't want to. I'll just say two things. For the first time in the time of fat cows, a large amount of money was thrown into a complex banking system. The economy was then indebted to 25 billion. We know who the Prime Minister was at the time, we know who was then the Minister of Finance, we also know that the then Minister of Finance has warned his own government and his own Members and has also prepared an insurance law that would no longer be able to secure loans on the basis of the shares of those companies that are yet to be bought. Why did you extend this for one year? This law should enter into force on 1 January 2007, ladies and gentlemen. So you suspended him for a year. And when was the most credit given to the circulation of so-called tycoon loans? When were these most powerful stories about taking over these various companies, not only taken over by those who ran these companies, but also taking over other companies or competing companies or some third ones? In short, this money was not spent on the development of companies, on technological progress, but on acquisitions or on so-called ownership consolidation. That was your big contribution to healthy finances, very big. Second thing. Even when you were not in the government when you collapsed from the beginning shy, then more decisive proposals from the Pahor government, if not directly, at least indirectly honored all those who tried – and also succeeded – to prevent things in one way or another. At that time, there were big holes, so today we have a disability reform of the pension system, which we will have to repair again, so we are still talking about the labour market, so we still have problems with the area of the grey economy and so on. That's when it stopped. That was also a credit. Even when you were not in the government, you greatly helped to make things work out that way. If I move on to the period when you took over the next government. Last year, there was no speech in the National Assembly until the end of May around the banks, which are the main message to the Minister. I myself have warned the previous Minister on the Committee on Finance at least three times that the European Central Bank's request to recapitalise the two System Banks must be answered. And what happened? Only in June did it happen because it was said that consolidation of public finances was a priority and that banks would come to order, we came to the so-called plot – how did they already write these bonds? I told them not to be Coco Chanel, but Coco Bell. And that's how they were. Did we actually do something about it? What Mrs Ljubica Jelusic said about today was: the three billion money that Križanič borrowed and invested in the solvency banking system was then transformed into a hybrid instrument; and what happened here? That we received this year and have not yet been shown in the final accounts for last year, we have received them in this year's budget of 385 million. So you left us almost 900 million holes in the budget when the government took over. And then you say that your budget was real, restrictive, a little minus! Yes, you always warn that a longer period of time should be watched. Okay, but look at him when it comes to the opposite side, not just when it comes to you. After we adopted these and other complications of this law around the so-called bad bank – by the way, our opposition did not go in the direction of not wanting to get rid of it, but we wondered whether this instrument was the most appropriate instrument. Could we not also use any other instrument, such as ownership or such as direct recapitalisation of banks on the basis of data that Banka Slovenije should also provide. Well, we decided on a bad bank, although we know that bad banks usually occur at the beginning of the financial crisis, not towards the end. However, something was very forgotten. This law simply did not foresee how bad claims would be transferred to a so-called bad bank. Only with the Banking Act, which you opposed and we had to make a decision about it again, have we actually put in place the instruments under which these transactions can be carried out. Today a lot of people have been saying that someone can't read. Apparently, some of you read only newspapers, and a little less those things that are more important, are said, especially documents, laws, and marriage solutions. In the Income Act, you all vehemently claimed that this was directed against families, small people and so on. However, those who did a simulation of the effects of this law do not need to be a major financial expert have very easily found that two-thirds of what the law provides for in the amount of 30 million relates to the so-called abolition of senior relief. This means that 20 million of this will be contributed by those over 65 years old. Gentlemen, there are 8 of us in this House. Some small contributions will also be made by those who, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, are workers, daily migrants, have to pay higher incomes, but all else is hypothetical and are expected effects. And no one gets hurt if the wages don't go up. If wages are the same, no one's income changes except for these categories, which I've just said. But how many of these words were there, babbling, excuse the expression, in the National Assembly, how it was an attack on families, on small people and so on. That is why I would also like to see a little more professionally and to be able to present these things a little better. However, as far as these observations are concerned, the Minister. I have already said that half of the questions could be answered on their own, for one quarter of the questions the Minister is probably not competent at all, because if it were possible, you would also be interpreting the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, because we all know how this proposal, adopted by the Government, came about the controlled liquidation of both small banks. This proposal came at the initiative of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Government, in fact its function, the function of the Finance Ministry, the Minister and the Government, to ensure the smooth functioning of the so-called state guarantees which the Bank of Slovenia cannot provide. That's the whole story. Now, what's better, what's worse, we've talked about this in September, and the minister and the governor have said that bankruptcy is a worse option. That's what they said. All experts also said because this way also allows more room for manoeuvre to maintain confidence in banks than institutions. However, the fundamental difference between bankruptcy and controlled liquidation is mainly that the bank continues to operate in liquidation. The terms of the savings, repayment of loans, the rights and obligations of the Commissioners shall be settled in respect of the contractual obligations. He's on a payday and everything. The liquidation is gradual, allows for greater adjustment and allows for easier unlimited guarantee for all savers. The bankruptcy doesn't allow that. Therefore, it is also more dangerous and much more risky, and bankruptcy would strike at once. I would hit it hard and I would have to give four hundred million out of the budget in 20 days to cover all the nutritional roles guaranteed by the State. So, as I'm listening again in this House, what it's like, it's all your view of the matter now. If two professional views are fighting – nothing is wrong, but it is wrong if he accuses himself of having someone who does not agree with you that he has a crush on someone, is insidious, and I do not know what else. That's wrong. This is the lower discourse of public debate in this country, in this Parliament, and perplexes the nation. That's the whole truth. Let me tell you something else; now it is also a little bit clearer to me why you do not answer the question of why such bankruptcy is, why break up quickly. Just after what I read yesterday in Del and today in the Journal, it's clear to me. I understand more clearly that the Court, led by Mark Pogačnik – qui presente, would say Italians – bought bonds without the consent of the Bank of Slovenia in 2007. This is the incriminating year in which the largest number of enterprises in the financial sector have been made. Clearly, bankruptcy would also mean an easier possibility of sweeping things under the rug. You know, and when you see it, there are now some specialists in the National Assembly here to tell others some kind of lumbarity and some unorthodox stories. But who was already meeting on the highway? Who was this chief of staff – since we heard about one cabinet chief today, I'm talking about another chief who was also young, and Hilda was meeting on the highway with him. What were you two talking about? What about pears if it's a good summer? You know, every thing, every thumb has two ends. Therefore, when we go into such an uncontrolled accusation and accuse people of what they have not done or what they have done well, it means that we really have different intentions. That we're trying to cover something up. And you're interpreting the Minister here because he worked on professional criteria. I've never seen that before. It will already enter history because it is the first finance minister to be intertwined at the time of the adoption of the budget and the Law on the implementation of the budget and the Law on the implementation of the budget. Otherwise, this ius primae noctis will belong to him. First Minister! So dear colleagues, I have a feeling that this interpolation is only being done because of some interpolation, because of creating some kind of chaos and because you can't actually get over it, that you haven't managed to keep the coalition. It is not true that the positive Slovenia and the SD are responsible for the fall of the government of Janez Janša. We didn't have enough votes to do this, but you lost three of the four coalition partners, so the government fell, that's what you're talking about. Now, with regard to this famous loan, which you mentioned earlier that he did not explain, the one who listened attentively to the minister explained everything, except that he did not explain what was logical, which is also understandable, and also in accordance with the contract, who was the buyer. If I tell you now, why is this credit important? It was important to obtain this credit, but it will primarily be designed to rehabilitate the banking system so that when stress tests are carried out and when we receive this report, we can perform both operations immediately. This also means early recapitalisation and, in essence, it is a precautionary loan that it has in stock, it must have to maintain the refinancing of problems that may arise. However, what is important at the symbolic level is that it has been credit proof that Slovenia can also return to the euro market and that it can also be committed in euro to issue normal bonds, but not that it can possibly be flirted with and resolved through hedge funds or some venture capital funds in America. In addition to political stability, this also gives this confidence to investors, potential investors, who will need it when we carry out this operation. So any well-intentioned person, especially those involved in politics, should welcome this move, not incriminate it. However, that the premiums on such bonds were higher, it is perfectly logical, since we had closed Euros The former Minister Šuštersič could not have been in charge of the euro market at all. [[...]] Did we forget that? Why did he go to America then? At that time, we all welcomed and said what a great success it was when he received these ten-year bonds after a 5.7% profit. This was indeed the highest wage in the history of Slovenia. So I really suggest that we start talking more realistically. And one more thing, and I just have to say here, because this is a top-of-the-line manipulation. As far as the European Stability Mechanism is concerned, the ESM, which has been discussed in recent days, and also the champion of the opposition, has found it very pathetic that Slovenia could use this instrument. Look, you say you have great financial experts within your parliamentary group outside the party. I think you know very well that this is a mechanism of creation. This is a mechanism that is expected to enter into force somewhere in September next year. Slovenia has already concluded on this, and we have also approached it, and comparisons with Spain are not at all appropriate. Spain did not receive an ESM. She got a special arrangement through the F-system, and she had to, you know, take what measures. At the moment when the ESM is not operational, it is the same as the arrival of the troika in Slovenia. That's the same thing, that's the equation. Right now, I'm repeating again, and so I'm saying that the ultimate manipulation is if you're talking about you being able to borrow 0.25, and I don't know what kind of debt. It is true, however, that neither this government nor the minister has said that Slovenia will not use this instrument when it becomes operational. Because the advantages of this are not only lower interest rates, but also that it does not go into public debt, but now, until this mechanism is in place, it goes into public debt, ladies and gentlemen. He's in public debt. And the one who talks about how this mechanism is available and actually the minister doesn't want it because he prefers to get some commissions — so to speak — doesn't know what he's saying. I don't think I'm up for talking in the National Assembly. And if the female part of the candidates somehow missed the minister here because they like to see him, I can see that the male part of him also misses him – so that he can experience all his frustrations on him. I don't want to talk about it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. You have a replica, first raise your hand before Mr. Krivec, then mag. It's a cakemaker. But I don't know. Master Pogačnik was personally named. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I wasn't personally named, but there were a lot of things in the crowd, and I still felt obliged to explain some things. Mr Čehovin spoke here about everything and everything, I know he has to cover time so there will be no division, but he was a bit inaccurate. I think that the mere entanglement is very basic to the events that took place this year. I think that Mr Chehovin misunderstood that we are talking about everything and I do not know what a long time he has not been present and so on. Interpellation speaks of the Factor Bank or Probank and the measures that took place in the spring and summer. At the time, Mr Čehovin was also in the National Assembly, and he was probably also making a decision. In view of his debate, I see that there are almost two finance ministers in this government, because even some things he explains that the minister himself does not know about the purpose of this new loan. Yesterday, the President of the Government and the Minister spoke of a purpose, Mr Čehovin was already talking about the third purpose of this loan, so you will have to consider what such credit was hired for in the closed market, not in the open market. Obviously, we all know why in a closed market, after today's debate, this will be even clearer. The open market means that all balances must be put on the table, that all other circumstances must be clarified, that the closed market can be traded under the table and that the interest should also be adjusted and, clearly, commissions, and that is why some experts are clearly from past times. Another issue that has been discussed is the recapitalisation of the Factor Bank and Probank, which also took place during the time you are sitting in this Parliament in May, and to which we are still awaiting an answer. It is increasingly my impression that this recapitalisation has apparently escaped the Minister of Finance, which is why he is also embarrassed to explain. Because he found that when he accepted the Ministry, he had dead people in his closet, and probably as a good financial expert, it would be hard to give some support to the dead. Mr Čehov also said that the decision or all of the story about the controlled liquidation was decided by the Governor of the Bank. This is where you'll have to decide who's in charge and responsible. You obviously want the blame for not deciding to bankruptcy, but for controlling the liquidation, to go to the governor of the bank. I also hear this for the first time, and obviously Mr Chekovin knows more than the Ministry of Finance. We just want to hear, on the basis of what data they are or have decided that controlled liquidation is better than bankruptcy, and I think that is entirely justified. This could be an analysis on two papers, and the minister also said that the Interdepartmental Commission had been set up, weighing both options they had on the table and decided to do less badly. To make up your mind about something that's less bad, you probably have to have some information, you don't just have to go to one inn and say what I'm going to do. Because if you say it's less bad, you have to show what's better in the next step. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u165	The replica was [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u166	Yeah, not a minute yet, half a second. [[…]] Mr Čehovin, you really need to listen and also read the interpretation and you will see that we are talking about the things that happened in this mandate and during your sitting in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u167	Master Marko Pogačnik, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u168	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would just like to ask my colleague Chehovin that before commenting on the matter, and to examine it, the Court would never need the consent of the Bank of Slovenia, as you said, to purchase these bonds. These bonds were issued for 60 million, the Court bought them for 1 million, and there was nothing wrong with that. This was in 2007, when Probank was probably one of the growing banks, and all forecasts were positive. I think this comment would be inappropriate, but it was misleading at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u170	Mr. Chekovin must know his way around bankruptcy. However, there is a need to distinguish bankruptcy between cases where assets are more than passive. In such cases, such bankruptcy must be a bad solution and harmful. In cases where these liabilities are more than assets, where liquidation is a bad solution. If I understand correctly, these two banks weren't worth much. If, for example, the minister wanted to sell them out of his closet when they fell, as he said, would he get one euro for them if he sold them with all the rest of the burdens? Probably not. Because if the state has to guarantee a billion 30 million and the minimum cost is just under half a billion, then these two banks were practically worthless. Even though they were worthless, the minister added EUR 108 million to the month of May. Today we read that some police investigations are being conducted because someone is supposed to want to sell some worthless shares for 4.8 million euros. But this is about the substantially higher amounts that are happening in front of all of us — nothing! Who's supposed to pay for this question first? Probably not the state and the taxpayers, but someone else, it's what the owners and everyone else call. We objected to this, and for this reason we have filed an interpretation against the Minister. And by the way, visas to these investigations, years ago, I think that this was in 2009, at a meeting of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, we found that the State Fund had purchased EUR 6 million of bonds from a private company belonging to the interest sphere of Mr Petan. Those bonds were not even worth 100 000 euros. Was there an investigation there? Did they lock someone up, arrest anyone? Nobody! So much for the credibility of these film performances for the public happening in parallel with these extraordinary meetings, which are a poor mirror of the functioning of the rule of law. They're talking about the opposite. Mr. Chekovin is probably also a little old and forgetting things back. He may remember some of them close to him or the other way around; he remembers them back, and he forgets them close by. Who was the one who blocked the process of initiating the resolution of the banking system, if not the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats? Last year. Who has been the one who has removed this process for more than half a year, and this beginning, which will make the burden that we all have to pay together, significantly greater than it could have been? The former opposition led by Mrs Alenko Bratušek was the one who had to the end blocked all of these decisions, the establishment of a bad bank and everything related to it. You're talking about a poor pension reform. Why did you vote for her? Chekovin Jerko "for", 4. 12. 2012. You spit in your own bowl. Around €3.6 billion hired by former Finance Minister Križanič and then shipped them to banks to keep breathing – if he had instead joined the establishment of a bad bank in 2009, these problems would certainly not be discussed today. I'm sure he'd have a finance minister today, and I'm not flattering him about it, but he'd have an easier job, I'm sure. And perhaps he might not make such bad decisions, but he is making bad decisions, and it is bad that he is going along the path of Mr Križanič, who is very responsible for the state of public finances, because a large part of this financial burden has arisen during his period, because the state has been extremely indebted, but still significantly slower than it now owes under this minister, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u171	I suggest you don't talk about the previous ministers, because they can't defend themselves now, they're not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u172	now that the gains or the amounts of these interest rates are higher than they were at the time. [[...]] I think that after this preliminary debate, I think, it has become quite clear to us that Mr Čehovin supports that taxpayers are prioritising two private banks, and not those who have robbed them to spend a billion EUR 30 million for this. On the basis of this debate, I can conclude that it also agrees that it is right that the owners have paid their dividends, but not that they have invested this money in the resolution of their private banks. So, after this debate, it is right that they have drawn everything that could have been pulled out of these banks and left them to save taxpayers, and it is right that we owe 5 % or 6 % interest, it is wrong if we could have 1 or 2 and so on. This is a problem, because it is not only about defending one minister, but it is about defending a policy, a public financial policy of a country that is unsustainable for a long time and whose burdens will be borne by future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. He has Mr. Happy Meh on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u174	Madam Vice-President, it is unacceptable that Mr Chernač is speaking here defiantly about someone who is old and forgets it is unacceptable, that is not how it works. [[…]] The least that could have happened in this case is that someone could now say that he's acting like a child, and I can't say that. Irresponsible. That's no way to say it, we're all Members and Members of Parliament, younger and a little younger, so once again, that's unacceptable, so please stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. You've probably noticed that I warned Mr. Blackhead not to talk about someone who isn't here. Mr. Jerko Chehovin has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u176	I have a replica of the proposalr's representative. I won't be around this, his gerontological findings and so on, but Mr. Chernač is a master of instigating cowardly eggs. Really! That's what happens when those cowards go flying all over the place. In Parliament today, I had a taste of the spirit of the late Visinsky. This is where he accuses himself, it's judged, and in the end, we want executions to be done. With regard to private banks, I say again; the profession does not know private banks or the institution of a bad bank does not separate between private and state banks. You also know why the main concerns are the so-called bad bank. And even Mr Šuštersič, as former minister, said, "I don't support," that was three years ago, "a weak bank because it means an unjustifiable gift to private owners." All banks are being rehabilitated in the banking system process, regardless of ownership; and you should know that when you talk about it. And something else, they're not getting rid of the bank; those banks that are getting liquidated are not getting rid of -- which is always said to be getting rid of. They're not getting rid of it, but these banks are being monitored for liquidation. There's something else about the fact that over 100,000 deposits are protected. All deposits, including state deposits, were state-owned. Why wasn't the question asked, but who was the first to put these deposits in these two banks?Oh, my God! That's not what we're talking about, just the last thing that's happened to keep these banks insolvent until it turns out that the owners of these banks don't want to, or they don't want to recapitalise. Only after threatening inequity, insolvency and thus the entire banking system was infected did the government decide on the proposal of the inter-ministerial authorities that I would be a more precise, inter-ministerial group appointed by the Bank of Slovenia and the Government to do what it decided. Even today, I say that this is smarter, better for Slovenia and I support such a measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pogačnik, I didn't understand who, because Mr. Chehovin had a replica and you can't use it. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You cannot now have a replica; there is no replica, you can apply to the debate because Mr Jerko Čehovin had a replica of the proponent and the replica of the replicas is unfortunately not. But before that, you got your word from me. The next one has the word, Mr. Franz Breznik. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Madam President, in Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, you can read the last sentence: "Replication on the replica is not permitted unless the President has assessed the particulars in the replica as incorrect." Mr. Pogačnik refers to this exact sentence. In this case, I propose that the President decide that Mr Pogačnik will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u179	Given that there were no replicas in the parliamentary practice, and because I cannot claim as President that I assessed the references in the replica as incorrect, I regret that I cannot put the replica on the replica. Mr. Tinker Bell as a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u180	I'm getting old too, Mr Meh, if it's any easier, and I've forgotten to say something, and now I'm going to take this opportunity. Mr Čehovin also spoke about who was to be responsible for this expansion of credits in companies in the period 2007, 2008. He spoke of 25 billion and spoke of a mechanism for halting or determining the extent of this potential of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or of the Minister responsible for finance. He's gone! Of course it does not, the Bank of Slovenia has this mechanism or this framework – it had it then and has it today. And who was the governor at the time when this abnormal growth occurred, according to Mr. Chehovin? Mr. Gaspari, who later became Minister of Pahor's Government! With regard to legislation at the time of Minister Visiak's ministry, legislation was adopted at that time, by which those Taiwanese heads finally looked under those pots. When those who concealed these acquisitions had to be disclosed under this legislation. And we don't bother deposits at a time when banks were operating normally in 2008, 2009, it's not a problem that period, the problem is deposits today, at a time when it was clear that it needed to be stopped. The Minister himself said that it was clear that it was necessary to abolish it, and yet, in May, he gave an additional injection of €109 million as a deposit by the State. It is certainly necessary to approach the resolution of the banking system independently of ownership, but it must be fair and equal to all. We argue that a privileged approach has been taken here, but not in terms of the interests of the State and taxpayers, but in terms of the interests of those who bear the greatest responsibility that these two banks have undertaken. I would expect the credibility of Mr Meh in these interventions to be much greater if he intervened some two hours ago when Mrs Leila Hercegovac said, and I quote, "I do, Mr Jerovšek, care about your brain, I think you have plugs all right, but they are mixed up and they are not in the right places." And so on. There was no intervention by Mr Meh at the time, which is why any further intervention that has taken place or will still take place is unworthy and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Leila Hercegovac, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I mean, Mr. Chernach, it's not right for you to repeat things that have not been said to you. If we were true colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, we would warn our colleague Jerovská that he does not say every word, that he does not offend Members, one by one in the National Assembly, and you are looking at it calmly. Look, one day someone has to tell him it's not right to do that. I think you feel the same way, but you're not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you very much. As a proponent, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u184	Yes, I expected something similar, Mrs. Leila Hercegovac. Since you are not able to apologize to him for the unworthy words you have spoken in the National Assembly, I apologize to Mr Jerovšek on your behalf for what you have said to the unworthy of him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u185	Wait a minute. I suggest that the debate continues without offense, who is capable and who is not. Mag. Leila Hercegovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u186	Mr. Blackach, you're not well informed. Ask your colleague Jerovska what we talked about. That means you don't have the right information.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Now Mr Franz Breznik has a debate to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj and then Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! I hope that you will argue today that the Minister of Defence will not defend you with all means – perhaps this is symbolic. As far as I know, the Slovenian Army is in very good shape. I'm afraid to perform today, but still. I will present some arguments that I think are essential, and I would also like to ask us to return to the market economy, to the world of the market, to the world of those people who are looking at us from the whole world and who are assessing our economic policy of one, other or third governments. This is what matters, which is why we're here today, and what we've put this adulterous state of ours in the first place. This adultery was established at the beginning of the 1990s only because the previous country had gravely violated fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms and because the citizens and citizens of the previous country did not have prosperity. 90% of people literally lived at the poverty threshold compared to the Central European countries, and only a handful were those who lived in the privileges of the former system of deep-communistism. What is important is that the market economy operates in full competition. The market economy cannot operate outside full competition, it cannot operate in monopolies. The market economy must operate in the society of responsible individuals and the market economy also operates on the principle of positive staff selection. These are the fundamentals of being that the market economy can operate. The Slovenian nation has decided by a large majority that it is going to capitalism, that it is going to a separate country and that it is going to a market economy system. I am saying this today because the market is reacting to the economic system. The government with economic policy gives signals, with every statement, with every action, it gives signals to the market. There, millions of times a day, people make rational decisions, many times irrationally, which is why the economy, as such, is acting on some principle of natural science, and this is the problem where we cannot fully predict these major variables of some society, we can predict them in some cases. The market responds to one and the other macroeconomic policies of a government, of course with circumstances. In our case, when our sovereignty, as some of you have talked about today, I can say, is partially crippled because we are borrowing this money because our account has a flaw, as you would call it, and therefore the market reacts as it reacts. What we can read to the Minister, that is, those two points that you have already broken down in large numbers today, namely, why he decided to liquidate instead of bankruptcy two small tycoon banks, which are not in the Slovenian System Bank, which have relatively few savers, a relatively small fund. That's what the basic issue of today's topic is. And whether these are signs for the market; whether the Minister acts passively, or whether the Minister of Finance, who is one of the most important ministers in each government, is also acting on the other ministers, whether these ministers are acting on some of his principles, and whether he is promoting some economic policy that would be more successful for the markets. Above all, it is important that this government, under this leadership, has not carried out any serious structural reform. The inclinations of all those who speak that criticise Slovenia are mainly in the direction that our trends show that the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is falling. This is the basic point or the basic history of the Slovenian economy and this is what is most important. If we look again, because there was no minister before, when counterpart Cernač somehow showed a profit diagram on Slovenian bonds, we can see exactly how markets react. I hope the minister knows this diagram; this diagram, once again, to illustrate it, shows from the revenues that were close to 7% when Janša's government took over in February 2012. These gains had already fallen to a level of over 5% in March 2012, then the so-called blockade by the then opposition began, mainly by the so-called referendum blockade, the blockade of trade unions in the streets where you blocked together the so-called two solutions, namely the solution of the bad bank and the solution of the Slovenian state holding company. After the Constitutional Court said that the referendum could lead to unconstitutionality, with the following arguments, these arguments were that the effective implementation of the functions of the State, including the creation of conditions for the development of the economic system, the realization of human rights, in particular social security and labour protection rights and the rights to a free economic initiative. This means that the economy is the foundation that gives a strong constitutional majority for all constitutional rights in such a difficult situation for that country. This is what the Constitutional Court said and what the Slovenian Democratic Party did not say. Dear Minister, look, Slovenia has committed itself to paying EUR 342 million to the ESM Fund. We have not used this fund so far, so we have not used the 0.25% debt. My question is still: Why are we in charge of a rate of slightly less than 5% on three-year bonds? This is the fundamental question, and this is the signal that the market shows us that a government that does not implement any serious reform programme in such difficult circumstances has these gains at such a level. The profits in these times are – 0.25% for Austria, 0.21% for Germany, 0.21% for Bulgaria – 1.2%, even for Romania, which is not a member of the Euro Group and Croatia – slightly over 4%. So this is this non-trust, and this shows exactly this trend. So after "viranting", it even points to an anomaly, which I cannot possibly believe alone, that Janša's government, which acted with limited powers, as the current President of the National Assembly once said, had a smaller premium on Slovenian government bonds than the government of Alenka Bratušek. When this government also showed the passivity that I am reading to the minister with which it caused greater material damage, these gains came close to the top of 7% and constantly varied between the circus 6 and 6.5%. These are the trends that show that the market indicates that this government and this economic policy are missing. Even all the things you take to the future, the medium-term future, show even less competitiveness of the Slovenian economic system. And that's what's scary, and that's what it's going to take for all of us: pensioners, all of your children, grandchildren and all of those who will somehow have to stay behind us in this common country. Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer two fundamental questions. First time. Why did you recapitalise or deposit EUR 100.9 million in two small tycoon banks, which you then put into liquidation instead of bankruptcy? This is the fundamental question that Sam, as an economist, would understand if it were happening with the New Ljubljana Bank, would somehow understand, it is the largest system bank in Slovenia, and I would somehow understand, this would be economically justified. But I wouldn't understand why to defend two tycoon banks. Look, Minister, I believe you are a capable man, but you know that before the National Assembly you have sworn to act in this country's best interests. I personally believe that your abilities are better than that of Mr. Mencinger, than that of Mr. Fran Štiblar, Mr. Velek Bolet and Mr. Max Secretary. These economists of Slovenia or of the Belgrade Economic School will go to the dump site of history as unsuccessful economists. I believe he's yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u189	May I have your attention in the hall, please? I'm sorry, Mr. Breznik. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u190	the potential for you to take this responsibility when you have sworn here, and that you will not take this policy of so-called social capitalism of Forum 21 forward. [[...]] This is what will remain beyond me as a Member and beyond you as Minister of Finance. This will be when we talk in ten years, maybe in front of your students, you can explain to them why you were defending this interest, that you will have to tell about your conscience. Not to me today, I don't expect it either, but that's what we're going to talk about as an economist, as a colleague maybe -- I respect you, I believe you don't belong to the school of economists that I counted -- and that's what's going to happen. I believe you'll defend yourself with arguments. Finally, I would say just one more river, which is somehow known: "The budget must be harmonised, the treasury must be recharged, public debt must be reduced, the arrogance of officials must be curbed and aided to foreign countries must be reduced. People have to learn to work again instead of living off state support, or Rome will go bankrupt." Cicero, 55 years before our count. I hope that if there are some historical circumstances, why countries have lost their sovereignty and eventually failed, it is hidden in all these events. Dear Minister, I am sure that all my information will somehow be rejected, that you will tell me that I am wrong and that your solution has been optimal in these circumstances. What I have told you is that the market that works, the market and the ten-year bond that is the basis of the market economy, which is the basis of trust, those who lend us money, is what is not subjective, which is an objective circumstance and an objective argument here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much and I wish you good luck in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the next word. I ask for order in the Chamber Then Mr Franz Jurša and then Mr Marko Pavlisič. [[...]] Here you go, Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Today we have heard that we are spending taxpayers' money to waste our time, but you admit to us that as an opposition we have the right to interpellation, even some of the other rights that run through democracy, we have your way, and some of you have obvious problems with democracy. This is our job, the one who is bored, who seems to you to be wasting your time here, go do something else, because no one is forcing you to be Members if you think this is a waste of time. We are talking about very important things, the session and also the interpretation must be in order to say that we are not all the same, that some think that "poof on puff" is not the solution for this country, that we cannot spend more than we create, because we will have to pay it once, not just us, but our children. Now it is also clear why some of you were so passionately against the fiscal rule last year, against limiting spending, against the possibility of spending; because you don't know it, you can only spend it. When you run out, you hire a loan, and it's not your business anymore, or you're going to go through some new tax on citizens and citizens, or we're going to go to a rough end, to bankruptcy, when we're really not going to be sovereign and independent anymore. Banks in Spain have been rehabilitated from the European mechanism. Comrade Chehovin said that they had some special treatment, perhaps we could have it in the light of the situation we are in. They have resolved the matter, but now Spain is no longer sovereign, it has lost its sovereignty – Mr Minister, you have talked about that we will no longer be sovereign and President of the Government. No, because you don't want cheap money, because, that's what the Prime Minister said, that means other measures. Of course, it would mean the end of spending, the end of filling the pockets of friends like now former Minister Stepišnik and his company, which receives state subsidies, that is, money from all of us, and then going to Istanbul for a trip, 72 employees, maybe they'd rather take the taxpayers who gave them to do so. Both of you and the Prime Minister said that when we owed each other this way on the reserve, we did it to prove that we could still be in debt. I think it would be the right way to take such measures to balance revenue and expenditure and to be able to boast that we no longer need to be indebted. That would be the real goal, not to boast that we can continue to be indebted. The PM said we don't need money, you said we need it; even more, you said that this money, the last billion and a half, was suitable for budget implementation. I think we should first agree whether we need it or not, not to mention that we don't need it by April, and your statements in Vilnius that we have full accounts of money. I don't know where that money is now, so we have to borrow it. Mrs Vraničar said in the beginning or mid-September that Slovenia could no longer be in debt on the market. So we had to commit ourselves in some strange way, and about this strange way and the owner who lent us the money, we ask you, you don't want to answer us. The excuse that we are on the market — if we wanted to be on the market, we would have done it through an open process, and I believe that you cannot do it. That's according to Mrs. Vrančnik's words. In addition, you said that we had to commit ourselves because we don't know what will happen, what will be the results of the stress tests in banks, etc., and at the same time we hear that in the country, honey and milk flow, that everything is great, that we are on the right track, that things are turning around, all positive. So, by this logic, in January and February, we will be able to make a cheaper debt than we are today, if we are as good and if you really see positive forecasts in the European Commission's reports everywhere. They've been very critical, there's no deviation, no delays, we're gonna have to be very careful about what we're doing, and I wouldn't brag about things like that. If I go to a bad bank and Mr. Shirtzl. The Minister gave Mr Shirtz fourteen days to decide whether he would be a Member or would be in a bad bank. Then, after four days, he dismissed him as the non-executive director of a bad bank. Probably so that you don't make the wrong decision and stay in a bad bank to control what's going to happen there. Even if Europe does not trust you, it also shows that they are doing stress tests because they do not believe what you would have prepared. And the money's gonna run out again. Let's hope not that foreign directors who are in a bad bank will look under the finger if they want to. But we read in the paper that there is something else we can look forward to. We know that the bad bank wasn't your option or you had to accept this way of saving the banks. We know that those who advise you or whose options you belong to advocate all the time recapitalisation, not the search for culprits and other bank rehabilitations that we have already witnessed in this country, and we are still paying for it today. Your boss or prime minister today was in charge of this, collecting signatures and trying to prevent a bad bank from forming. Minister, in the evening, you said in an interview that you were most disturbed by a six-year delay in the rehabilitation of banks. We've been late for more than six months. As I said, for the last period, the current Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, who as an opposition member has been very opposed. In the SDS, however, we proposed to then Prime Minister Pahor the establishment of a bad bank in 2009. When we took over the bank's management and we had that power, we wanted to do that. As it is said, last year it was so full under our feet that we have a bad bank just now or only now. We also ask you why we invested more than 100 million in Probank and Factor Bank this year, some colleagues accused Mr. Shirtzl why he did not do anything – because he said good-bye to this town earlier. On April 26th, you were given an audit, and then you saw the state of both banks. Why didn't you put them in bankruptcy or forced liquidation? Why did you allow Mr. Rigelnik to draw a few more million out? You also said that you were thinking about how to close these two banks so that the economy would have as little damage as possible. Which economy? The one organized at the 21st Forum? In fact, in Probank, they were mainly gathered like that, which are the same in Forum 21 as in Factor Bank. At the same time, its owners are also large debtors and yes, from these two banks they were credited with Taiwanese acquisitions. Mr Kordez is already in prison today, including Trimo, Perutnina Ptuj, Autotechna, Pivovarna Laško, Lovša, Zoran Jankovic, 11 million owed Factor to the bank with his company. Friends of former President Kučan, who met at the 21st Forum meeting, I think today was also an event of Forum 21. Today, all these gentlemen and successful executives in bankruptcy or bankruptcy or neck-to-door are in charge. Taiwan's credits are constantly being read to the Janša government, although we have already said several times that loans are not being granted by the Prime Minister, so Janša did not give them, but were given by Mr Kramar, Mrs Pajenkova in Probank, and were first supervised by Mr Gaspari as Governor and later by Mr Kranjc. None of them did their job well, but some other governor would not have come through the sieve of the then President of the Republic, so we had very little choice. If he didn't do his job as he should, he's right to be responsible. Mr. Chekovin, you said we had something to read. You should have read something from that time on. Indeed, at the time we amended the takeover law when they had to publish the takeover contracts publicly, when it was made public due to the amendment of the law, that these gentlemen, just with shares whose owners have not yet, guaranteed the credit they had leased for the purchase of these shares. At that time, the tycoons were not born, but they were then made public because we had changed legislation. However, a number of changes had to be made where the director of the money laundering agency, the money laundering office, the competition protection office and so on, first of all, a few people had to be replaced because those who were there were there to find out nothing. Minister, you said you had to do this at Factor Bank and Probank to keep the economy alive. We have received from the director of Ptujska Bakery and pastry shops 60 employees and 3.5 million euros of created annual transport to be blocked by Probank, which has been in the process of liquidation since September. They have a claim cut, a loan of 1.1 million, in short, now they have all their accounts blocked and probably 60 new people will be in the employment office. If that's how you imagined saving the economy and helping the economy, you made a bad decision. I would repeat the question he said, I think already my colleague Pukšič and someone else: did Uncle Jože Mencinger advise you or did Drago Isajlovich call you? According to some figures, he also called the then Minister Križanič, who rented the loan and then invested more than 200 million in Probanka and Factor Banka. You're doing the same thing. If that's the solution and if we're going to solve anything like this, it's just your opinion, not ours. This year you are again, we took credit that we gave 100, over 100 million in these two banks, when you knew from 26 April that you were doomed to failure, and you did not react as you should as Minister, as you swore you would work for the good of the countries and the citizens. This is certainly not for the benefit of the citizens, what you have done. There will come a time when accounts will have to be laid down and when you have to explain what was going on; perhaps not us, but sometimes some criminalists or courts, because I believe that we will once in this country establish a legal system that will work, because this time the rehabilitation of banks or bank resolution will not end, as it is the first time the culprits hide behind the bank hole, and then we will re-enter the position in the banks and that is why we are back where we are. Now not only us, but also the public, citizens want to know who are responsible for the situation, and because of the wrong decisions you may be among them. As it is said; what you have done and therefore we also interpellate you is not work for the good of the country and for the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u193	Here you go. Procedural mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I believe that it is necessary to respond to the level of the public word that we have just witnessed. In this performance, there was a great deal of insult to people who are not present in this Chamber today, not all of them, but to use such labels as the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, a respected economist, whether we agree or disagree with his theories, which have nothing to do with his expertise, because if the President of the Party of Jeraj has problems with his cousins, and not being able to find him in this country and deliver his mail, that is their problem. But to offend people who are not in this room – already before, Mr. Breznik has been speaking abusively about ministers – goes beyond all limits. It is impossible to agree that serious work has to do with the insults and stupendous dignity of people, especially those who are not here. In this case, however, I would also say that according to the level of this interpretation and the reasoning of the interpellation, Dr. Uroš Cufer's minister spoke much too much because each sentence he had been chewed twice. If we are now talking about something decent, useful and in favour of the country and the citizens dedicated to the work, then let us also give it an appropriate conscience, not that those who insult, then even ask for excuses from the other part. I would ask you to be careful because some speak very quickly and consume so much insult that it is impossible to react to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much, mag. Spending. I agree with you, and I now publicly warn all Members and Members of Parliament to abide by the Rules of Procedure and to discuss it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So right, without insults and mentions of people who aren't here and can't defend themselves. Mr. Joža Tanko wants to do this step-by-step. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I would also like to remind you that when Mrs Potara proposed not to mention people who are not here, I am simply warning you that Mr Janša and his cousins are not here, and in your argument you have taken this and used it for a procedural proposal. I would ask that if you are already doing as good an argument as you do, don't hang up and argue with what you're not, so you're consistent. Secondly, what I am devoting to you, Madam President, is whether or not we can then use in the debate of the National Assembly to quote persons who are not, because this is also part of the work of the Members of the National Assembly. Now, Mr Mencinger, as I can see, we will no longer be allowed to quote his statements and comments in his historical statements. Some have been born, and I'm surprised some Nobel Prize for Economics didn't fall, and so on. I would then like the chairman to explain how he will lead the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. It is only right that we discuss this without offense. As far as one of the last quotations is concerned, Mr Cernač, as his proposer, also had and I did not stop him from doing anything wrong with his quote. Mr. Franz Jursha has the floor. After him, Mr Marko Pavlišič and then Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, ministers, secretary of state and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! I will not reckon, nor sing praises; I will not ask questions, but I will warn. Minister, you're very rare, but I don't think that's bad for you as Minister of Finance. But it's true that I consider one thing bad for you. Sometimes you're essentially too quick, especially when you tell the public a matter that you haven't dealt with before at least with coalition partners. And that would help you fix it in the future. But you will or will not follow my warning, that is your question. Even this time, when I spoke in the presentation of the Group's position, I will not talk about the direct issue referred to in the interpretation, but it is somehow linked to it. For us, in fact, there is a top topic, or first-class theme, if you want, related to the Ministry of Finance, in our parliamentary group, as well as in the Democratic Party of Pensioners. That's why I'm here today to talk about this matter. That Kad is a single and legal person, we have actually agreed one year ago and it is enshrined in the existing law that SDH should not have the capital investment in Kad, that when carrying out tasks determined in accordance with pension law, that Kad has in its supervisory council a membership from the types of pensioners' organisation that the assets can only be used for purposes specified by the law governing pension and disability insurance, that wages and profits cannot be used to distribute to shareholders, that Kad orders ZPIZ every 50 million to 30 September primarily for the coordination of pensions, even though we have not done this coordination in the past few years and have given up or have given up on it in the next two years. In addition, the SDH 50 million allocations to provide additional SDH resources shall send 10 % to SDH for the sale of capital investments. It's a very important acquisition! Mr Minister, we are pleased with this solution, and there is no need for us to change the law if you are not prepared to listen to our parliamentary groups, our parties, our unions, the Alliance of Retired Associations and others who want to contribute. You want to take things away with the novelty of the generation that created it. In order for Kad to lose his administrative independence, a separate register of assets is proposed instead, the provisions are repealed that SDH, in order to provide additional funds for the Kadhu pension fund, must allocate 10 per cent of the purchase value that SDH receives from the sale of capital investments that are defined as SDH assets. While it is maintained that SDH has to transfer 50 million SPIZs each year by 30 September, there is no specific purpose of spending on pension coordination. This is of crucial importance and, of course, we cannot agree with such a dictatorship. Why are we opposed to the Financial Ministry proposal? Minister, you have forgotten or forgotten, but you are probably too young to know what Kad was set up in 1991. Let me remind you. The objective of the Capital Society is to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the pension fund and thus the public and the stability of current pensions; the security of the stability of current and future pensions. As a compromise proposal, the Minister offered separate registered assets to Kad and SDH instead of a separate legal entity. However, this does not provide any legal guarantees for the return of Kad's assets and their intentional use. There is a high probability that the property would disappear when drowned in a larger legal person. The obligations of other affiliated companies, only the Court, are so high that they instantly swallow Kad's billion assets. We are absolutely opposed to the Minister's idea that SDH, as the universal legal successor, will enter into all the rights and obligations of Kad, which could mean that it has the pension property freely after Prešeren, and in theory can also be taken away free of charge. This is not prohibited by the law. As the universal legal successor to Kadov's property, only SDH would be entitled to the income from the management of this property. With the idea of this accession to the minister's belief, because when it no longer existed, a 10 % purchase from the country's capital investments was also difficult to negotiate in the water to provide additional funds in the pension register. And the Minister expects us to give up his stepmotherly treatment to generations that have actually put Slovenia on its own and work to support this issue. These things simply and simply cannot be supported on our part! So once again in public, here at the Assembly Hall, I suggest: Leave Kad alone! According to the ZPIZ, it is the responsibility of the government to establish a demographic development fund that is supposed to be dedicated to what Kad is currently intended for, of course, in addition to other financial injections. The President of the Government has not given us a concrete answer to the question raised, but we are convinced that Kad is at least one of the possible sources of funding for this fund. Therefore, leave the fund or Kad alone until the demographic development fund is established! It is true that the reasons that I have cited are more focused on the interests of interpretation, although the interpellationers have not highlighted this issue, so we will not also interpret the Minister. However, we took advantage of this opportunity and the opportunity to draw attention to the pressing problem we are facing today, tomorrow, and at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor, followed by Mr Tanko and Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleague and respected colleague! The Minister is clearly granted an unlimited State guarantee, and the decisions relating to the supervision of the termination of the two banks make it clear that the amount of the State guarantee is clear. The estimated final price of this intervention was also assessed. The charge is therefore entirely unfounded at the very beginning and then continues with rhetoric which reflects the use of all legal and political means to achieve the objectives, which are outside both the right and reasonable policies. Interpellators point out that if the entire banking system were to be restored in the same way, the taxpayers would have a cost of €14 billion. I understand that the proponents want to justify the lack of courage in order to resolve this problem alone before the government comes that overcomes this courage. Of course, I cannot overlook the key role played by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, together with the Finance Minister, we have a decisive couple who are not afraid to accept the right solution in an appropriate manner. In this darkness, we can't get past the one you want or don't want us to make our destiny. It is the European Union where we, we must not forget it, we entered with a referendum of almost 90%. It is therefore right to take advantage of all the help that is available to us and to pay for it both professionally and financially and not to overexamine their advice and opinions. This action in two banks [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u201	I ask for order in the Chamber so that Mr Pavlišič may speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u202	and the action mentioned in the two banks was in cooperation with the relevant institutions of the European Union. [[...]] And even after that, today there were estimates that the chosen path was the right one. However, we have had a rather long parliamentary debate on this subject and we have it again. To be clear, more time than available, easier and more thorough, those with appropriate influence in the bank can take care of their interests. Interpellations to the minister in the same breath show that some of the banks have already collected out of the process what they can, and then that they should wait at least until the end of the stress tests. The Minister is therefore, in the opinion of the interpellators, too slow and too fast at the same time. Interestingly, the proposer obviously cannot make a decision, but he has taken both options. Of course, we can understand this in particular as the fact that the applicants are not satisfied with this because it has happened, and I understand them. I am also not satisfied that our banks are failing and that our economic downturn is actively falling. But I can overcome so much reason that I will not blame the first one who did what was necessary to be done and point to the naked emperor or make it clear that we do not need a bank that does not do well. However, I believe that Minister Chufer also understands that he is a suitable target for the immediate need of the opposition and does not overly blame it. If this debate eventually helps at least to enable the proposer to decide whether the minister was too quick or too slow, I will say, "It's worth it, at least we've achieved something." However, I must also commend the proposaler for a new approach. So far, it has not been the custom for the Minister's interpretations to be constructive to propose a new minister at the same time. I consider this an interesting idea, perhaps worth considering, not just because of the quality of Dr. Janez Šuštersič's proposed candidate, whose columns I still like to read, although they are not very friendly to our government. It's right that he's putting a mirror on us, much more quality than we get here in this house. And some of us appreciate that. The idea of constructive interpellation of a minister is another time, under another law. So I can go back to the content of the interpolation. Under the leadership of Minister Cuffer, the Ministry of Finance has done everything it takes for others to now carry out their work to the end. Similar work has already been completed in cases such as Mercury, Vegrad, Istrabenz or construction barons. We'll be happy to see you join the list of Probank and Factor Bank. The slowness of the resolution of the banking system is not an honor, so we can be so much more satisfied with the way the external evaluation, together with stress tests, is guaranteed that we will not repeat the stories of nationalisation or recapitalisations, whether they are ordinary or Coco forms. To once and for all welcome this pussy tour of Slovenian society and avoid recapitalisations at the burden of taxpayers, which last happened under the previous government. This, of course, is just the first step. The second is not to interfere with the operation of the bank, which can only happen with the exit of the country as the owner. As far as I know, Minister Chufer strongly supports this idea. Minister Chufer is walking on the edge with his solutions, but he did not get Slovenia to do this. It's a consequence, not a cause. The Minister has already prepared a number of legal solutions that clearly point to the situation in which we have a country. Let me just mention the repo business, the Financial Insurance Act, and the Banks Act. But Minister Chufer isn't very special about this. Remember, say, Coco bonds or the final nationalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. That was a walk on the edge, too. We are in very difficult financial times and the country needs a wide range of instruments to choose an optimal solution at an appropriate time. In these cases, Minister Cuffer has proven himself with both his expertise and his determination. The proposalr quickly showed us a graph, but they forgot to put it in the interpolation material. So I took some notes. According to the proposaler, the interest on bonds began to rise in the middle of last year due to the operation of the then opposition. And look at it as a fraction, as by chance, this happened also this year in the period when the opposition announced the use of all legal and political means. Now he is the only one who knows the purpose; the goal, which unfortunately increases the cost of indebtedness to all citizens. And if we were to graph when the previous government was in charge, I believe we wouldn't even show this graph. An assignment under the previous government was made near the summit. Now I don't see it. The reasons for this are a little different, but some other time. It was also mentioned that "virtage" was a successful exercise of curing, which is certainly something positive; it chases winter and brings spring, worries and brings hope, unlike drunkenness, which brings only headaches. Let me mention the assignment. It would be fair to show a net female debt. A large portion, sometimes even most, is designed to cover past debts that fall in a certain year, but they come out five, ten, or even fifteen years ago. Otherwise, no debt is good news, but here the finance minister must follow the adopted budget, which we accept here, in the National Assembly. This is his work, the work of the Minister for Finance of the Republic of Slovenia. Ministers are usually dismissed because they do not do their job or do it badly, not because they do it professionally, decisively and efficiently. Minister Uroš Chufer performs it exactly as he does: professionally, decisively and efficiently. So let me get back to the beginning. The birth of Minister Cuffer was not easy or short. Some media have already talked about farce, but after these seven or eight months, I can tell you it was worth waiting for. Slovenia has one of the best financial ministers so far and one of the better ministers at all. Let's keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Mr. Chernač, as your proposer, do you want to? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u204	Just a few words about this good finance minister. I showed this good minister's mirror earlier. This mirror is public financial data. Some of them were mentioned. One of these very important is certainly also the premium on Slovenian bonds, and this chart showed very clearly when these gains started to grow. In January 2013, this is the point of "virtage", you are well aware of, this is the point where you sacrificed a better finance minister than we have today, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, to stay in the government. It was just your silent interpellation. That's why I doubt we'd be supporting him now if there was a switch. From here on out, of course, these gains have begun to grow steeply. This has nothing to do with the opposition. The opposition, the current opposition, of course, did not support these governments. On the basis of this debate, however, it can also be concluded that Mr Marko Pavlisic also supports this policy of the Minister of Finance, which we are witnessing today: a policy of strong, costly indebtedness, a policy of high interest payments, 5% and 6%, which go mainly to speculative capital, a policy of rescuing banks in such a way that the use of bank tacunas is not primarily paid by those that they have caused, but by taxpayers, a policy that for two small-sector minority banks in the banking market is irrelevant in terms of the entire Slovenian banking system of the country, a billion EUR 30 million in guarantees. In short, this is also in the opinion of Mr Pavlisic, the right policy. We don't think so. Last but not least, the balance sheet data show that this policy is poor, five times higher losses in Slovenian banks in the first nine months of this year than in the same period last year. The extent of credit potential is substantially reduced, which is why the economy is not as a result of this economic progress, and as a result, we are one of the few countries that will come out of recession in 2015 or not one of the few, the only country, the only point on this European map, all others will achieve positive economic growth in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Now that the final debates are under way, we can make a balance sheet of the day. We've filed an interpellation against Minister Chufer. The minister does not answer, runs, actually a shy bird among ministers, but this interpretation has actually experienced some side effect, as Minister Stepišnik resigned. In view of the fact that nothing important has been done in that area of the economy, it is said that the measures proposed by the President of the Government, in very harsh words, both on the side of the Government and on the side of the coalition Members, have also been very arrogant, but this withdrawal is a welcome step. The only one who received oxygen from that set of measures for the economy is Mr Stepišnik, who himself has allocated about €380,000 for his ministry's retirement, and is still running for a new tender. Whatever happens in the search for this ministry, we think, this is also what one of the colleagues wrote on Twitter to be the best candidate, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, otherwise all other wet dreams will be. There was a lot of talk about the fact that Minister Chufer, after being informed of the bad audit reports for both banks, invested around €109 million in these two banks about a month later. The minister didn't explain whether he did it on his own, whether he was forced to do it, or whether someone passed it without him knowing it. Important information would be this and we expect an explanation. This amount of €109 million has been lost and I just want to remind you how much effort you have made in this National Assembly through the procedure to implement certain laws that have been adopted – the Income Law of €30 million and has covered virtually all wages, the Secretary of State said, even minimally and truly. You have weakened all tax reliefs, introduced and increased the contributions of the unemployed to health insurance and so on. Here the left hand flew to two banks with problems that are now in control of liquidation, €109 million. Let me just remind you, that's about as much as this country's going for scholarships for the whole year. 109 million euros is about an annual scholarship fund of this country and no one among the coalition Members has trained when we asked whether it is true or not and whether this money is lost or not. In our opinion, he's lost. I think it was an act when the money went down in both banks, for a diversion in public finances, and this diversion that was aimed at those choices in these two banks. According to the decision, the decision of the government, the minister, this has become a new group of privileged, the tax will be paid by taxpayers, or all those who have been paid by you in these few short months since you removed, reduced, subsidized, additionally charged them, awarded them tickets for students and student transports and so on. It's a tax on the way the government works, Alenka Bratušek. I'm not surprised we almost didn't see the minister here. We saw everyone else. Mr. Jakič is three times as long for this government table today as the Minister for Interpellation was three times as long [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u207	Mr. Tanko, please focus on the interpolation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u208	Yes, what am I talking about, ma'am?Oh, my God! About what? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u209	About Mr. Jakich [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u210	I'm talking about the interpolation and how long he's been with us, the minister against whom the interpolation is being filed. [[...]] I think I have rightly warned that Minister Jakič has spent three times as much time here on the government side as the one against which the interpellation is filed. I think it would be responsible for the Minister to explain what happened and why what happened to those 109 million euros in May. If there are not enough men to explain this to the MPs of the National Assembly, then something is wrong with the minister in charge of this function. It would also be necessary to explain or submit to the members of the National Assembly the calculation for one and the other variants available to the Minister. He had two, it's real control, liquidation or bankruptcy. I have already said in the Group's position that none of these two choices are good is bad, but we expected both in the September debate and in the interpolation and also in the response to interpolation, and even today or at least today, information on which decision is more favourable or acceptable for Slovenia. I cannot believe that the Minister, who obviously has a good team of co-workers and also a very wealthy human resources ministry, was not able to submit a calculation to the National Assembly. Why is he hiding from members of the National Assembly, whose decision is more financially successful? There, the Minister could further explain all the other reasons that might help us not to choose a financially more favourable option, but the Minister is talking only about some of the reasons that should have led them to do so without giving any information. As you expect from us, on the basis of what I have said so far, that this statement by the Minister would be put on my mind. Nor did he explain why it was allowed that after the government, when the minister approved 109 million for the two banks, there was a division of dividends if it was known that the two banks were bankrupt or matured for bankruptcy or liquidation. Let me remind you, in 2009, Mr Kramar received a million from the New Ljubljana Bank, and at that time, the current coalition MPs introduced a special law where you charged his million with an additional tax rate. Mr Trofenik was a proponent; the colleagues I am looking at here actively participated in this and voted in the law and thus acted against it, at the time saying 'non-hygienically paid million'. Mr Herman Rigelnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u211	Please, Mr. Tanko, focus on the interpretation against Minister Chufer. You're talking about names of people who aren't here to explain things to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u212	Look, you obviously didn't read the interpolation. All that I'm talking about is written in the text of the interpolation. I expect whoever's leading the session to read the matter we're talking about. Mr Herman Rigelnik received almost EUR 7 million in dividends after the Minister had given 109 million to these two banks. That's what you call seven Kramers. I wonder what this same coalition will do now to get back these unjustifiablely paid 7 million euros in dividends from his bank's apparent failure. What are you gonna do? How will the minister protect the deposit in these two banks? What will you do with the coalition MPs in this case? What are you gonna do? At Kramar, seven times lower the amount of Mr Kramar, which he received, as we understand, as a reward, you have introduced a special law. Now that we are talking about Mr Rigelnik, I have no idea what to do with anything in this area! I want to know how this advantage of controlled liquidation is better than bankruptcy. In the controlled liquidation, this is the procedure in which the bank operates, but those who decide on new claims in these extraordinary administrations, new liabilities, new holes, new depths will be created, money will continue to flow from these two banks and the result will be a new proposal, a new requirement for recapitalisation or new money to cover it. The liquidation control process will not determine the status of claims and liabilities over the next five years because the procedure is one way or another. In short, the minister has decided on a solution that allows only the parallel operation of these two banks alongside the banking system. What is the advantage of these two banks being in the presence of systems banks and banks that are controlled by stress tests? What is the added value of this concept and this model? What added value is the fact that we do not have a single banking system, that this part will work Sui generis and the rest by some other rules? I think that what happened in this controlled liquidation is, in fact, the planned play of the rules of the European Union, including the principle of business, including the exercise of uniform supervision of banking. This will go on just like this, and then there will be different recapitalisation schemes, and God knows what else is going to happen, and in the end, a few hawks will be waiting for something to come out of this system. I don't think we're such a rich country that we can afford an extraordinary solution like this. Not one country, any such solutions at such a low level of responsibility and at such a low level of security as the savers we have in the Slovenian banking system, would have allowed that. I think we are extremely exposed to savers in Slovenian banks. Some are provided with superstandard solutions, including insurance and payment for their role, which is above the agreed or prescribed legal limit, but others will be able to have their expectations up to the maximum level prescribed by the law. Why is it that we have first - class and second - class committees in a single, if single, banking system? Why are the comets of the Factor Bank and Probanks in a more favourable position than the committees of all the other banks? Mr Minister said that the solution was proposed by the Commission, which was based on the Bad Bank Act. This commission is composed in such a way – eight-member – that it has a large majority of the government party. It is said that of the eight members of this Commission, three are proposed by the Bank of Slovenia, five by the Government, of which three are ministers of finance and his man also heads this committee and has a decisive vote on this committee in the event of a balanced vote. So what happened with this proposal certainly cannot be said that it was an expert proposal, but it was a political decision. If it were an expert proposal and if the chosen variant of Minister Cuffer was better than bankruptcy, then I am sure that there would be expositions or arguments for such a decision. None of this has been given to Members of Parliament at the table, which is a great reason to suspect that something is wrong with this procedure. I also understand the minister's problem of not saying that what was explained was essentially an additional debate, which was beyond the scope of interpretation, including this obligation, by the way, which came about a day or two ago, is in fact an unnecessary debt. In his explanation, the Minister said all our obligations until the end of 2014, but we do not need money now for October 2014, until April 2014 the deposits were enough, until September 20th. That was Mr. Secretary's statement in New York for the Wall Street Journal. Now we pay and rent expensive loans at the highest daily prices. The more expensive you couldn't get that day. Interestingly, many countries, our neighbours, African countries, South American countries that are not in any stable financial area, have no strong currency, receive loans at significantly more favourable prices, at 20, 30, 50 % lower interest rates. It's completely illogical to say that someone, I'm going to say, is causing conscious harm in this country. Why would they give, I don't know, 50t or 70 or 100 million to some money lenders if we don't need it? What is the advantage of doing so? We can't evaluate this any differently than you're going to some sort of first-class waste. It's a waste of money. Even if we had at our disposal money from the stability mechanism at very low interest rates, it is reasonable that the State, the Government, the Minister, should decide to approach this mechanism and take advantage of what is available, because we are probably just paying into this fund. This money, which would thus have been obtained, at these low interest rates, could probably be usefully used and any legal basis that we have adopted in the last two, three months would have been more or less unnecessary. Unnecessary! I don't understand why the government is making citizens so unfree to collect their last money, so that they can sit on their property if any obligations to the state cannot be met and there do not seize the opportunities offered and so very little should be done very little. A small cut of poultry, appetite in the public sector and perhaps somewhere else, not much, and would easily meet all these obligations ahead of us. As it is said, Minister, complete disappointment, no answers, no arguments similar to those of the budget, as in other key matters. In short, interpolation is more than justifiable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is difficult to be the last debater after almost thirteen hours of debate and this debate; but let those taxpayers and citizens who send messages about how fruitless this work is today, immediately at the outset, say that this work that we have witnessed to him today, which has led to the full working days of one of the most burdened ministers in the difficult financial crisis, is not the result of the desire or will of the ruling coalition, but again the desire of the opposition that has forced us to discuss completely unnecessary things here for days and days. I once understood the role of the opposition as control and control. In a particular case, it cannot be understood as being otherwise destructive and blocked, for after thirteen hours of discussion it can only be found that this interpretation is totally unnecessary, unnecessary and pointless. It has only one purpose, this is the purpose of political accounting, and this is evident from the fact that, despite all the answers received by the Minister both in a written message and today at the meeting, you were not satisfied. Like many times before, you pulled old stories and old grudges from Forum 21, Kramer and all the other owners or directors of banks from the drawer or pockets, and you charged with us as if we were here in Positive Slovenia and remained in the coalition guilty of all the problems of this country. Let's go back to the interpolation. What is essentially the central point of this interpolation? The main point is the discharge of your Member, Mr Shirtzl, in the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, at least tasteless. Why did Mr Šircelj, acting as Secretary of State in the last government of Mr Janša, at the same time, become a director, otherwise non-executive, in a bad bank, we do not know. However, to tell us that we have relieved him of this function, despite the fact that this was the opinion of the Government's Law Office and the KPK, it is strange. And that you're reading this to a minister who didn't do anything political, but you could. If the truth is that Mr Šircelj has been appointed by the Secretary of State to this function in order to improve the cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the bad bank, then you understand that the Ministry of Finance has not been able to cooperate with the most critical opposition Member if we are already on political appointments; but this is not at all essential. It is essential that you have called this appointment illegal, illegal, and no one knows that anyone, nor Mr Shircelj, would recognize it. As far as I know, he did not complain about the decision and, as far as I know, in this country, illegality and illegality are still solely determined by the courts. I must say, too, that I am surprised that, as a Member of Parliament, Mr Shircelj, the Secretary of State has allowed this disgrace to be debated today whether he has indeed been entitled to another position in addition to his salary and to receive an additional EUR 2 000 a month from this title. All those who perform the parliamentary function in a serious and responsible manner, and I consider myself to be so, we find that we are barely able to perform this function. This function is an important function, we are elected by the electorate, we are entrusted with some responsibility and those who want to answer it seriously must put the appropriate amount of time, will, knowledge and work into it. Mr Shircelj is obviously, as colleague Möderndorfer has found, a truly superman. In addition to this function, he can easily function in the most exposed company, which is a bad bank. To this strange story of Mr Shirtzl's rescue, you then slightly forced the liquidation of both banks. Let our listeners again, if anyone has not already given up, remind me that it is on this very subject that we have lost your initiative all day, when we have discussed these two issues exclusively. And I'll say it again: the liquidation of banks is due to past mistakes. I'm talking about Factor Bank and Probank. As the minister said, the skeletons fell out of his closet. Between 2007 and 2013, 62 specific measures were taken for both banks, and in six cases certain actions had to be notified to law enforcement authorities. I wonder why your government did not then do what was necessary in a way that it would consider appropriate. The new government and the new governor just thought it was the best way to do it. But you SDS Members are again smarter than the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance. Following the pre-planned procedure, the European Commission and the European Bank confirmed this decision when assessing all risks. The reasons for this were very detailed at the then meeting. Dr. Jazbec, Governor, said that the banks had gone into liquidity problems that had escalated in recent months to this point so that any abandonment of these banks of markets could have unpredictable consequences for the entire banking system and, above all, financial stability. Therefore, when deciding on a controlled termination, they took into account the following three aspects: financial stability, the security of deposits of savers and the cost aspect, and certainly the interesting aspect that the opposition has been trying to impose on them all the time. This aspect Banka Slovenije, as central regulator and supervisor of the banking system, does not and will never take into account, as Governor Jazbec said. He explained well, as well as he and the minister, why this decision was better than bankruptcy. The bankruptcy is always some unpredictable situation, he said. The bank had a total of 631 deposits of savers, of which 631 million were depositors, of which 400 million were deposits of natural persons and small legal persons, while the remaining deposits were up to 631 million. On average, small depositors had a deposit of EUR 11,000. If these deposits were lost, there would be major market panic and there could be major consequences in other banks as well. The remaining deposits, representing deposits of more than EUR 100,000, were negligiblely small and would result in liquidity cuts for a large part of these companies. In view of this, the only smart and possible decision I believe has been taken, which has also been confirmed by the European Commission and the European Central Bank. This is also true: also according to this act, appropriate procedures have been taken to prosecute crimes that may have occurred in these banks, which may have been transmitted further and requested to be reacted to by law enforcement authorities. Then today you have included in this interpolation an obligation. You found that it was disproportionate, too expensive, to make a lot of insults about the minister, about the coalition, and so on. Again, I ask you: Why don't you let us play our part as a ruling coalition right now? Why are you making us do this? In a specific situation, the Minister of Finance decided to do as he did. However, he made a decision because, as you know, this country will not be able to date for some time without debt if it wants to carry out its legal and other obligations. Perhaps you would choose another fund, but with this other fund or other form of aid, as we call it, serious and strict requirements would come into play that would seriously affect our social state, the public sector, as we know it, even the pensions. And that's really something the SDS party wanted to do all the time. That's why I believe you would choose this mechanism. We didn't. We think these values are important. With this debt, this government, which is only eight months old, also solves old mistakes. As has been said several times, the largest number of bad loans in this country was given in 2006, 2007, as well. The debt was very great in the first government of Janez Janša, then in the government of Borut Pahor and again in the government of Janez Janša. Whoever thought that after eight months of government Alenka Bratusek's debt would be over, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u215	I'm asking for order in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u216	He must have made a mistake. [[...]] In those years, the first government of your President was, some call it, killed by a class of successful managers and replaced by others who then made transition privatisations, some of them are called tycoons, and that is why we are here today. With this in mind, debt does not increase so much in nominal value but increases statistically, particularly due to the fall in GDP. The fall of GDP is something that our government cannot blame. Because if we show each other the tables, I'll show this one more time. From here to the red table, we have your government, the government of Janez Janša. When we took over, we were at 4.7% below zero economic growth. Only in this interim period have we come – or still – to minus 1.7%. These are the numbers we can talk about. And whatever you don't want to hear, last Friday there was a big twist. The budget was adopted, Alenka Bratušek was entrusted with the Government and the European Commission as well as other institutions in Europe have said that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u217	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u218	It's a terrible pain, Vice President, to listen to such words of truth. [[...]] I will conclude by stating that you are right, leaving our government, our ministers the opportunity to make decisions that they think are most appropriate and that, I assure you, we are taking with the best faith that we are working for the good of the countries and citizens. Dr. Uroš Cuffer is one of the most capable ministers in this government, and he means exactly what voters want: a new, unobstructed young face with a clean past. It has outstanding professional references in the banking sector where we need them most at this point. Together with Governor Jazbec and Prime Minister Alenko Bratusek, they form three new unobstructed faces that will lead this country to a better, better time; and this rise has already begun. That's what you see, and that hurts you, so you're wasting your untruths, your lies, your insults, and everything else because it's in your habit. Not much of what has been said today! You can't blame positive Slovenia and this eight-month coalition for any more mistakes. The law on SDH was not adopted because Positive Slovenia opposed certain concepts, in particular the lack of transparency contained in your law. Under your law, the law on SDH would not apply the Public Procurement Act, the Act on Access to Public Information would not apply and, according to your version, the Court of Auditors could not control SDH. All of this and some of the status problems were problems that are still being solved and because of these problems, we objected to the SDH concept prepared by your government. As far as bad banks are concerned, please stop repeating the lies that by blocking – coalition, Positive Slovenia – we have prevented this bank from coming to life earlier. That's not true! I say 50, because you said it wrong the 50th time! We have indeed submitted a request for a referendum, but our signatures have not been recognised because they have been copied. As a result, this submission of the signature did not delay the implementation of the bad bank for a single day. In short, I conclude that we have witnessed another infertile and lengthy debate, unconstructive, however you wish to say otherwise, a debate at a low level and a debate that has not produced exactly any results. And that, I believe, is hard for people to look at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr Zvonko Černač to propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u220	If we measured the entire debate today after this last debate, we might still be able to attach Mrs Maša Kociper to it, but we will not. I think that there was much to be said in this debate, but unfortunately there was little more responsible. It should be pointed out that, above all, there were no answers to these new questions, which have been raised today and which have been very important. There was no answer to one of the very important questions why the minister paid an additional financial injection to the clinical dead bank in May of May this year at EUR 108 million. The economic trend is, of course, a process that takes place for a little longer than expected or desired. It's something like investment cycles. Those main effects in investment, particularly the larger ones, are only known in the next minister's mandate. So the work of his predecessor is visible in the next term and something similar is here. These trends have started to turn in the economic field in a positive direction mainly because some reform measures have been taken in the time of the second Janša government. And if they were not blocked in Positive Slovenia and Social Democrats last year for the second half of the year, and I am talking mainly about a bad bank and SDH, then this positive cycle on economic growth would be significantly greater this year. And surely Slovenia would not be the only country to record negative economic growth or not in 2014 will have a recession. So boasting now and shitting with this Empire is the least of what is, unfair and unworthy. For none of what the government of Alenka Bratušek has accepted is going in the direction of accelerating economic growth. All measures are geared towards making this process more difficult, both with regard to higher taxes and with regard to the other measures that have been taken and which make economic activities more difficult. During the second Janša government, a pension labour reform was adopted, tax reductions were adopted on individual segments, a number of other measures were taken, and many more of them would, of course, have to be adopted, and we calculated that this policy would continue in this mandate and to some extent it did, and then this process stopped. As a result, of course, these trends began to turn in a different direction this year and this fall is no longer as pronounced as it was. Above all, we have calculated that the investment activity of the country will also be maintained in this year at least at the point envisaged by the original budget, and above all that it will be maintained in the next two years, because we are accessing not only the two years ahead of schedule, but also the new financial perspective 2014-2020. It would make sense to take advantage of this available potential as soon as possible in order to make this crisis situation and this negative trend in economic growth a positive direction as possible. The government of Alenka Bratušek, led by the Minister of Finance, decided differently and significantly reduced its investment activity in 2015. Some systems will thus strengthen and will not be able to perform even basic functions, you know that 52 projects will be stopped in one of the areas, and additional costs will be incurred. It is interesting to note that public debt does not increase nominally, but only statistically. I must say that this claim is worth two bullets, whether it goes to each other or not. I've shown you how it is before. It's getting real, real. And it will also have to be paid and returned; and not with small interest! I also said where this debt started to grow and why we are now at EUR 23 billion in this public debt. At the end of Janša's first government, however, we were at 8 billion euros and that we would be the end of next year after this dynamic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u221	May I have your attention, please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u222	at EUR 30 billion. [[...]] By 2004, the public debt amounted to 7 billion of this country, and during the first Janshea government it had increased by EUR 1 billion and in the three years of the Pahora government by EUR 8 billion. So in these years it has increased by as much as in the entire history of our independent country from 1990 to 2004. So much for the ability of the then Minister of Finance and where this minister is headed. Then the State, although in difficult circumstances, was in charge of less than it could be in 2012; for less than 1 million 660 million. That's what you're saying. The debt has begun to fall. The projected deficit was not increased by the other Janša government with a balance sheet. From the projected EUR 2 billion 300 million planned by the Pahor government to a billion 100, which has also been realized. The government of Alenka Bratušek, when it arrived this year, estimated a deficit of about billions and 100 per year as unrealistic and increased it by 500 million to 600 billion, which will also be realized, given that we are now reading that we are already there at the number of 411 billion. This year this public debt will increase by over 4 billion – you see the column, it is significantly higher than all of you here. And in 2014, 4 billion 800 is foreseen from only one title. Here this figure does not include bank recovery bonds of two billion and not for other actions on debt securities and everything else provided for in the adopted law or budget. So nothing increases statistically, it increases realistically, and that's the problem. The problem with this minister is that he did not say how and how this country will repay or service this debt in the future, as it will only be necessary to spend a billion euros a year next year – in 2008 300 million. This is a major problem with the projected economic developments ahead – not to mention these bad loans, when they were created, who is responsible. Repeatedly and lastly: The Bank of Slovenia is the one that established these frameworks, and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia of the time Gaspari is the most responsible for this area in the period 2006-2008, but was awarded with the Minister's Office in Pahor's Government in the period 2009-2011. The average deposits in these two banks, which will be saved with tax money, amounted to EUR 11,000 and if they were lost, panic would have arisen, it was said. Mrs Kociper, the law guarantees up to 100,000 euros, not up to 11,000 euros. All deposits of up to 100,000 euros are guaranteed and protected, no matter how the bank ceases to operate, and no panic would be caused by this! Of course, there would have been a panic in some others if the model had not been adopted as it was. In particular, in those who have obviously had the influence they have, they have managed to achieve that this model of elimination of these two shells was adopted as it was, and have thereby, to the greatest extent, retained their assets and withdrawn their deposits in due time. Even those who were not drawn out are 100% protected. For several reasons, this method, which was chosen, was inappropriate and was therefore based precisely on the proposal to grant a state guarantee of EUR 30 million in the liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank, thus directing the burden of irresponsible and harmful clientelistic management in these two private banks to the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers, which means that the citizens will pay the loans they have leased through higher taxes, but not return, the bank takunas that come mainly from left-wing political provenance. That's right! Look at one example of this human resources collision, many of them. We wouldn't be done by tomorrow if we listed everything. Even now it has been exposed that we have exposed Kramar. We didn't expose Kramar. Mr Kramar highlighted the Prime Minister here in the National Assembly this morning when she said that we were employed at the largest state bank of New LB and that we are the answers for these things. The President of the Management Board of New LB for the period from 1 February 2008 to 1 February 2009 was Mr Kramar. Who signed his contract? The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance at that time, including in some periods a close associate of Mr. Ropa, Anton Žunič, who was the President of the Supervisory Board!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u223	Mr. Blackach, focus on the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u224	That's exactly what I'm doing. Where did this Mr. Anton Zunic continue his professional career? He was head of the risk management sector at the Factor Bank! In this bank, for which taxpayers will pay questions. Same gentleman. And the minister we are talking about today, Mr Uroš Cufer, comes from the high position of one of the directors of the largest state bank, where this bank hole is likely to be five times larger than in these two banks. Five times as big! And who's going to pay that question again, I ask? Directors, members of administrations, supervisory councils in these banks or re-taxpayers? In this way, as proposed here, it is clear that taxpayers are again. And why do we have to be in debt as a result? Is it true about pensions and social transfers? That's what we have to do! In the past and in a mockery of these bank taikunk jobs, there is an ongoing investigation into alleged injury, as some have talked about selling some shares worth EUR 5 million, which is supposed to be worthless. But here we are talking about dozens, hundreds of millions of euros! Hundreds of millions of euros! In front of the whole public, covered by taxpayers — nothing! No element for unlawful conduct, no crime, no property sealing. Nothing! However, the decision of the Minister of Finance, as a result of the Government and everyone else, to remedy these bank-based Taiwanese rebates has taken place. For this reason, we have entered into an interpolation and in a smaller part also because of the unlawful discharge of one of the four non-executive directors of the so-called bad bank, because it was made in contravention of paragraph 8 of the so-called bad bank law because there was no conflict of interest. It wasn't! The Governing Board and the non-executive directors shall not control the bank, but shall have a supervisory function under Article 3 of this Law of the Ministry responsible for finance. And the obvious was just this illegality, but there's a small part of it and it's irrelevant in this whole story when we're talking about interpreting against Dr. Uroš Cuffer's Minister of Finance. To be perfectly honest, he himself admitted here today, in an additional explanation, that he had proposed that Mr Shirtz should be given time, just as it should be in accordance with the law, that he should decide which of these two functions would continue to be carried out, and then he was obviously over-voted with no idea of what. If these are unnecessary things — things are obviously unnecessary for some. I think that these are very important things on which it depends, whether this country will still be socially fair in the future, whether it will still be able to provide money for pensions, whether it will still be able to provide money for social transfers, whether it will be able to provide all those services that it has to provide as a social state, and whether these decisions will not lead to those who come after us, and not just one generation, but more of them, who have been forced to pay for decades what is now going on and will happen in the next two years. As a result, this debate is still well founded and it would be right to hear the Minister's response in the end, whether he intends to change this debt policy, which he is currently implementing, whether he intends to do something to ensure that the State does not owe itself in the future in the way that it is now, lastly, overnight, with one investor who is still phantom, or whether it will be done to make that burden that taxpayers owe to paying the interest lower in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Here you go, Mr. Blackach, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u226	Look, Madam President! Here I have a list of the scheduled debates, which reads: Alojzij Potočnik, instead of Mrs Maša Kociper, was discussed by Mrs Kociper and then writes by the Minister and lastly by the proposer. And it's me, I'm a moment. [[...]] I applied for the debate before the Minister's debate, and I expected the Minister to discuss it, but if the Minister does not discuss it, then I have not yet concluded the debate as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u227	Dear Mr. Blackach! You have shown nothing in this direction that you would ever feel that you expect the Minister to say another word. Time's up, and that's why we can schedule the time and you'll sign up. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u228	Look, one more time. I have read to you the list of expected discussers, I said that we expect the Minister to answer these questions, I expected him to answer those questions, in accordance with the list before us, because he did not do so, but I will continue my discussion within the time I have left, as the proposer, because you did not ask the Minister whether he wants a word or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u229	Dear Mr. Chernač, believe me, I asked him. Here you are, Mr Pukšič, you have a procedural process, followed by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I propose that, in accordance with the rules of procedure in force, we take this to the end, there is no need now to raise the temperature. If you have asked him, you have asked him so that the messengers and the messengers have not heard it. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, as it says here, the proposer – at any time, is the last Minister of Uroš Chufer. [[...]] If you ask him and he says he doesn't want a word, then he can still be a proponent, because that's his option if he gives it up, and then it's time to share the time. I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Let me tell you something, Mr. Puksic. We are making every effort for the Presidents of the National Assembly to work in accordance with the rules of procedure. Me, too. Mrs Masha Kociper had the floor, and I gave the floor to Mr Zvonko Černač. Mr Minister had the opportunity if he wanted a word, and because he had not decided, Mr Chernač was on his turn. He now has a procedural Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Madam President. In order to reinforce that you have done the right thing, I remind you, after this Rules of Procedure, we have already had one interpretation with Mr Vink Gorenak in this mandate, and it was exactly the same situation. Let me refresh your memory. When the Vice-President of that time chaired the meeting, Mr President, it is on my express question if I can later, as a proposaler, where I have entered the debate on behalf of the motioner, if I may have a word later. He said that, of course, you'd get to the point. And when he asked the Minister for a debate, he gave him his word for a final debate and finally decided that the debate was no longer on the table. He said it was now a matter of time apart because you had your word before the minister and you did not take it to the end and the matter happened exactly the same. Then there was a time-sharing and you shared my time that I had left, just like now we're going to be yours. That is why, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, now is the time when we come to share. I'm sure I'll believe that because you'll sign up for the word, you'll have time and you'll be able to take advantage of what's left of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Given that time has stayed, as I said before, please, Mr. Tanko. You have a procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman! There's nothing else to expect at this stage. See, the proposaler, Mr Cernač, can speak to any debater in the National Assembly. Any one of them. And that's what he was doing. At the time he assessed that the debate had to be held on behalf of the applicant, he did so. Even for Mrs. Kociper. However, it is the duty of the chairman who holds the meeting to ask, as he asks each of these ministers, officially, formally, whether he wants a word. If the minister doesn't want to, he'll ask the proposer on this list if he wants a word. You didn't do it. I propose that you return the debate back there for Mr Chernač's debate and ask the Minister whether he wants a word, so that we too will know what is going on in the National Assembly that we are taking part in the meeting and, of course, also the proposer who is the one who is still having the debate. There's no other way. If you have asked each of these on the list whether he will discuss or not, and you have announced him, if he has not checked out, then the announcement shall also apply to the Minister at the end and to the proposer in the end. That was the order of the house so far. I propose that this is how we conclude this meeting. However, after the discussions between the Minister and the proposer have been exhausted, there is also a sharing of time. That's right. But you skipped two people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Let me say that everyone, including from your Member – just a little bit to explain – also from your Group of Members, your professional colleagues will come to our professional colleagues to cancel certain persons or postpone the deadline for discussion. I'll tell you one case, I hope my colleague doesn't mind. For example, Mrs Ludmila Novak discussed it more at the beginning, and then I did not invite her again later, but she was crossed out and I did not mention, yes, Mrs Novak had discussed it before. Or someone else, say from the positive Slovenia delegation, Mr Darko Jazbec, who checked out – I did not mention him. Mr Cuffer, because he expressed his own wish or decision not to discuss it, I did not mention him. And I didn't do anything new, nothing. Mr. Only Bevk has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All those who have now abused the Rules of Procedure, I would like to remind you to comply with Rule 282 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has four paragraphs and specifies who interprets the Rules of Procedure. During the meeting, the Rules of Procedure of the President-in-Office of the National Assembly shall be interpreted by the committee responsible outside the Rules of Procedure. Where appropriate, the Commission may request an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and, if this is not sufficient, the Commission may request and submit to the agenda of the National Assembly also by meeting and adopting an authentic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure provided for in this Rules of Procedure for the authentic interpretation of the law. The motioner may make himself known at any time, irrespective of the order of the debaters and shall have the same opportunity by the Minister, so that the President is not necessarily or is not at all necessary to ask each debater whether he or she wishes to discuss or does not wish to discuss the matter. For then, after each debater, we should ask the motioner, "Lord Black, would you like to discuss?" "Mr. Chufer, would you like to discuss?" That would be kind of weird. Please take note of Rule 282 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for during the meeting of the Rules of Procedure the President shall explain. But you have three other options to, I would say, clarify this matter that we are now facing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. We will take into account Article 282 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have already read that you have been given the floor by all the speakers you wanted, and because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. So, I want to open the application. Mr Pukšič has already applied before, then Mr Chernač, before that I am sorry, Mr Kavtičnik, you were before Mr Pukšič and then Mr Frangež. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Madam President. I myself wanted to propose this procedural proposal not to take into account Article 282 because it seems normal to me that the President cannot say to the motioner, "Mr. Chernač, do you want to speak again?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I was thinking. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u240	Madam President, until the point where you explained the rules of procedure that the applicant had a word, the Minister had informed you during that time, in one way or another, that he did not wish to speak again – of course, the motioner did not know. It would be correct that when the motioner has finished the presentation to tell him that the minister does not want a word and if he has completed it, you will share the time. You did not give this option to the proposer. I think there was a procedural error here, it is easy to correct it; simply by giving the applicant another word and of course this is his last, because the minister gave up his word and then you share the rest of the time. I am sure that would be the case, but you are the President, and you are explaining what is true; of course we have MEPs and Members of Parliament, if we consider that something is not in accordance with the rules of procedure, to point it out in a procedural manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Let me tell you that, before Mr Jože Tanko discussed, the Minister has expressed his will so that he will not debate. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u242	Your Honor! Dear Ministers and Ministers! Thirteen hours! Thirteen hours we sit in this round hall and now we get involved with these procedural procedures and we're smarter than each other. But we all know that we will not change what you have set out to do, and the coalition will vote that Mr. Chufer will continue to be Minister. I propose a gentlemen's agreement to take five minutes off all of us together so that we may agree, in these five minutes, to end this meeting in some dignified way, because we all want it together. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I request a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I accept your procedural proposal and inform you that we will continue the meeting at 2300 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u244	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Since Mr Matjaž Han has proposed a recess for the consultation, I ask if he wishes to present an agreement. Here you go, Matjaž Han, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I really asked for a procedural proposal. However, the agreement was, in a way, gender-sensitive at the level of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, that the proposer would still be given some time left to explain his vision of the meeting and his view. Then we still have some procedures to implement. But Mr Tank and I have agreed on some things, and I believe him. Now we will see how long this meeting will take. I think we've made this session end in dignity.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u246	Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u247	I'll be very brief. There, we had an agreement at the table between the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Today I'll see if anyone else has a word for it. I'll be very careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u248	Mr. Bevk, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In order to avoid similar situations as they have now been, I will, under the second paragraph of Article 282 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, give the Business Commission an initiative to interpret Article 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks precisely about the notification of the time and order of the debaters at the National Assembly or, if that is not sufficient, propose the addition of the Rules of Procedure to this matter. I'm asking you to finish this session in peace tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you, too. In accordance with the agreement, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Cernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I think this complication was completely unnecessary. It took me about five minutes to complete what we were proposing to say, and I also came from this list that we all have here before us, which says: Masha Kociper, Minister, proposed. After Masha Kociper's discussion, I applied, and I was counting on the Minister to answer what we asked him, and this is where my debate went. Today, in response to the interpolation, we have heard some introductory thoughts around ten o'clock by the Minister, some additional explanations that have not even fully answered the questions that we have raised in the context of the interpolation. Then, as part of the additional explanation, there were also some other questions raised in the debate of individual Members and Members on this interpolation. There were no answers to these additional questions either. Therefore, for the last time, I ask the Minister why, on the basis of any analysis, a decision has been made on the basis of what arguments has been made that two banks, which have already been assessed in April of the month, are clinically dead and that they will have to be imprisoned, that the same minister paid 108 million additional euros in May to ensure their liquidity, and that the owners of these banks have not done so during the same period, that is, those first ones who should have taken care of their property, no longer believed that these banks could still be kept alive, and that the State has helped private banks to survive in a manner that allows some owners to pay dividends during this period. Mr Herman Rigelnik, say, is €6 million 900 thousand. We have not received this answer to this question, why this decision was taken. The country increased the value of deposits in these two banks in May from EUR 209 million 400 000 to EUR 318 million. Furthermore, we have not heard the answer to the question of who is the buyer of this billion and 500 million euro bond. It was said by the minister, once late in the afternoon, about half past six, the second and last time he agreed to the word that we would find out through the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, that the data would be published there next week. Here's Parliament, here's the National Assembly, here's essentially the people -- if we paraphrase. And to this people, this minister responded, and this people wanted to hear who bought this bond for a billion and a half, what was the commission for issuing this bond, who received it, whether this buyer really got a discount of EUR 6 million at the time of issue and so on. In short, all this detail that we're interested in so much more because this quotation wasn't so low in interest rates. 4.84 places us somewhere between Romania and Botswana. And we would be happy if we could be in the society of those countries that the Prime Minister said this morning that we no longer belong in this framework – Portugal has been mentioned and so on. We didn't. We're a long way from that. A number of other questions were raised that I would not repeat. In short, some of the answers about why the Minister decided to run a public financial policy that prevents the closure of public financial burdens over a long period of time – the burden of repayment being passed on to the next generation – we have heard that we will be spending billions of euros for interest in the coming year – we have not received it today. In short, let me finish. At the time of his oath, the minister swore that he would respect the constitutional order, act on his conscience, and work with all his might for the welfare of Slovenia. The whole of his conduct suggests that he does not respect this oath, which he made on appointment to the position of Minister of Finance; rather than acting with all his might for the well-being of Slovenia, he acts with all his might for the interests of influential individuals, for the interests of those who agree on huge gaps in the banking system on the one hand and on the other hand for the interests of speculative capital. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, adopts and supports measures that additionally burden taxpayers and taxpayers. It proposes and adopts measures and decisions that are not in the interest of citizens, but of individual stakeholders and which weaken our sovereignty, all of which are actions that are far from the oath that the Minister has made on appointment to this position. The Minister is, of course, responsible for the conduct described in the interpretation, some of which are also illegal in our view, and particularly to the detriment of the State and the citizens, and is responsible for such conduct objectively and subjectively. For these reasons, in our view, the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, is no longer able to perform public functions in a responsible manner in order to be accepted by the public as the custodian and guardian of public finances, i.e. someone acting in the interests of this country and citizens, and for all that reason, we propose that this National Assembly should adopt a decision on the discharge of Dr. Uroš Cuffer from the role of Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you. In view of the fact that we are in the time-sharing phase, the Minister may be given the floor in this context if he expresses the interest to speak. If you don't sign up for the time allocation, the minister will be the only one to speak at this stage, and if you sign up, the minister will be able to get a word at the end when all the applicants are reported, and I'll say, for a maximum of five minutes, hold the debate. If the Minister expresses interest at this stage, when I call you to a debate, he speaks at the end. However, if you do not report for additional time, the Minister may speak immediately and then the meeting shall end with a vote. Excuse me? So when we share time, we are in line with Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I ask once again, "Minister, would you like to discuss?" No, no, no. However, I invite everyone else to report to see how much of you are interested in sharing the remaining time. Reported 52, 3 minutes each, please? [[...]] Is the calculation correct now? Yeah. 2 minutes and 38 seconds each discusser is available and 52 are reported. By reminding him that the Minister has not signed up for the debate and I will not be able to give him a final word either. So there won't be any doubt about the progress. We're moving on to the debate. First of all, I give my word to Mr. Zvonk Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. I note that the answers to these questions, which have been raised, are unfortunately not to be received. As we have heard, we will read some of the answers in international publications, which in some ways is humiliating to the National Assembly, I must say. I think that anyone as responsible as possible should answer questions in the National Assembly. In criminal proceedings, usually those worst criminals defend themselves by silence, so I hope that this association will not prevail after this debate is concluded. Today we have talked about serious issues, we have talked about whether, following the decisions taken by the Minister of Finance, there will be, both with regard to the rehabilitation of these two private banks, where the greatest burden will not be in the order of order, as owners, members of the boards of supervisors, depositaries with more than €100,000; in short, those who are most responsible for the operations of these banks, and, in the first place, taxpayers and as a result of the decisions required by these actions, are to be said because of the rehabilitation of these banks and all other banks that will still have to be carried out in the future, an additional debt of the State with the issue of bonds to remedy these obligations. Interest on these debts, at current rates at which the State is indebted at levels of 5 to 6 %, is a financial spiral that the country with so low gross domestic product and so low economic growth or even the projected recession in 2014 will not be able without the need to take radical measures. We will be in a situation where no threesome is needed to take very painful measures, and these measures will obviously be taken by four, by the government of Alenka Bratušek, composed of four parties — some already taking and hurting. It hurts the economy, hurts the population, hurts those who had nothing to do with the use of individual bank-political tycoons. For this reason, of course, we have proposed that such a policy be changed, a change in such a policy is possible if the Minister responsible for this area is replaced, and for this reason also a proposal for the discharge of the Minister of Finance, because he is leading a harmful policy in one way and, on the other hand, he has carried out certain practices that were illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you. The word has Mr. Happy Meh, get ready for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support the interpolation. Those who wanted to listen heard just all the answers, understood them, talked a lot about them in the past, and all the questions were answered as much as a reasonable person. It is wrong – in fact there is nothing wrong with the minister, there is much wrong with the interpolation investors. The decision on compulsory liquidation or bankruptcy was carefully explained by the Minister as to how this decision had taken place. The discharge of the non-executive director of Mr Shirtzl is, in fact, quite in the last place, and I think that both points were very equivalent. And we talked about everything, just not about what was going on, even about all the history and everything that was going on. So I think it would be much better to talk about what we're going to do from tomorrow. Once again, let me repeat what I have already said today; all resources are allowed to achieve our goal of achieving our goal. All the means and everything that matters, including the interruptions and the night meetings, to create an extraordinary atmosphere. And once again, there is no state of emergency, no need for such a session, and we could work normally. The fact that we were sitting here today is not that bad – I would say many of the citizens and citizens. Well, I won't support interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Well, in the National Assembly, there was a strange pattern of government work in relation to the National Assembly. In this parliamentary history, I do not think that the Minister would have spent so little time explaining and answering questions to Members, even though he had plenty of time at his disposal. On explicit questions why 109 million were invested just a few months before the controlled liquidation and only in these two banks, allowing some shareholders to pay dividends for profits from these banks, but in fact it was a loss, it is said, the minister did not explain at all. We also did not get any explanation as to why the chosen way is better than bankruptcy. I think that whoever decides between the two options, these two options should be financially evaluated, processed with other criteria, and then, if so requested, explain to those who are entitled to this information why it was such a decision. We have not received either in the reply of the Minister, nor in the written reply to the interpretation, nor in the debate on the banking system in fact any answer to the questions which were then the basis of this interpretation. 109 million euros is spent annually on scholarships more than this country. There is more than this intervention in social life, much more, for €17 million or 20 million, if you remember the budget proposed by Janša's government, it cost 3 000 500 students around the National Assembly and as a great achievement you were celebrating that this was put into the budget. Today we are talking about an amount that is about five times higher, six times higher, and no one is shoving, even covering for the minister to do so, I will say, an inappropriate way to defend ourselves with silence, as if we were in some sort of inquisition. In short, I will support the interpolation because I want to have a minister in front of us who will be responsible and who will be able to explain something to us Members. This minister obviously doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Well, Minister Cuffer is acting like a real treasurer. Hospitality and speech are not his virtue, and many of us could learn from him and be good. Today I learned a lot about Forum 21, about SD, etc., which I didn't know before. Thank you for that. There have been some professional discussions, but there have been flancaries, not to tell you how many hours. One more thing. I was under the government of Janez Janša in the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. We were in a quiet room and Minister Shuštersič came into the quiet room and said, "I won't tell you about some things." Now what are you surprised that the Minister here will answer all your dead and other questions? I repeat, it was also professional, but it was a lot different. I will vote against the Minister's interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today, it has been repeatedly said that this interpretation has been tabled needlessly to be invested at an inappropriate time, i.e. at the time when the Minister and the Ministry of Finance have the most work to do. I will not remind you of all the laws they have drawn up in the budget, etc., but I would remind you once again that the interpretation has been made on two matters; the provision of guarantees in the controlled liquidation of Probanka and Factor Bank and the resolution of mags. Mr Andrej Shirtzl from the position of non-executive director. I would particularly like to take on this other matter — because it is more familiar to me because I am a lawyer by profession and would not be so much involved in financial matters. In short, I believe that this discharge was justified and that Mr Šircelj should have made this withdrawal by himself earlier, because he had to be aware that this function of the non-executive director and as a member of the National Assembly was not compatible and that it was necessary to decide on one or the other. The Prime Minister here this morning said that she trusted the Minister to do well, to carry out his duties faithfully and honestly. As long as I know the job of a minister, I think those words are the right words. So I estimate that Minister Uroš Cuffer is responsible and that there is no basis for the actions that have been made, so that the interpretation is unfounded, so I will vote against his dismissal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, prepare yourself for mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. This is the first time I've heard from you. According to my assessment, Minister Chufer and the Government have decided on the wrong way to rehabilitate the Slovenian banking system, but this is not the only thing. Today's debate has opened up a number of other problematic and neurological points of action for this government. I will draw attention to one which I find most problematic and which we have heard today also at the top of the economy in Brdo. This is because, in balancing public finances, we have failed to respect or respect the Government for its own commitments in the reform programme or in the stability programme and has not done enough to balance public finances on the expenditure side. Here, it has been relatively tolerant of certain privileged groups and, last but not least, the wider public sector. I think that the Government could take advantage of this crisis and, last but not least, one of the benevolence of a number of social groups to clean up our public sector a little bit, including a cover from the past and unnecessary costs. Instead of this opportunity, this government has more favoured the revenue side by raising taxes, which is further affected by the economic initiative. I think that this is bad, in fact, I can say that it is a suicide policy in the economic and financial field, and Mr Cuffer is certainly responsible for such a policy. When I asked the representative of the European Commission today how they had actually overlooked this logic in terms of budget estimates, he said that they had not done much with the structure of the budget at all, but to look at the achievement of the objectives – the objective is below 3% of the deficit – and what the structure is, of course, is another question and that this is our internal thing. It is also concerned that the revenue share will not be realised, I think, and that is why investments will have to be cut to achieve this fiscal objective below 3% of GDP, although it is likely that this will also be the 'wet dream' of this government. This is said to be a deficit below 3%. So these are, in my opinion, elements that are as important as the many indications from this interpretation, that such a policy of the finance minister and this government is not sustainable, not in the medium term, but only in the long term, and that this poses a major problem for public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get Mr. Daniel Krivec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u265	Mr President, thank you for saying so! There are no answers to the main questions that have been posed to Minister Chufer today. That seems very problematic to me. He did not reply why the Ministry of Finance had invested more than EUR 100 million in Probank and Factor Bank after May, knowing that the auditors of both banks had already turned on the so-called red light in April and that they knew that this company could not continue as a functioning company. We have not received an answer as to what is expected, what will be the decision of the European Commission, which has only made a provisional decision to take this liquidation. What if there's a bankruptcy? What are the consequences? The most worrying is, of course, the indebtedness of Minister Chufer in the closed market by extremely high interest rates. Debt in a closed market means for each country that it is in severe financial distress and that it urgently needs money — one billion and a half. He did not say in what way and who and what money would be needed for. The President of the Government explains that money is not needed, and in his words, the Minister of Finance says he needs it for the implementation of the budget. Most in the 17 minutes in which he responded, the Minister of Finance was actually asking us what the price of interest on Slovenia's independence and sovereignty is. This one's a little rough! Let us ask ourselves why we are not using the European Rescue Mechanism. We taxpayers have put EUR 342 million into this. Spain made good use of it at low interest rates. Spain is still a sovereign country, Spain's athletes are still performing under the Spanish flag, their GDP is increasing and they have not been given any serious commitments – restructuring and control of the banking system. Restructuring and supervision of the banking system. Why don't you take advantage of the ESM fund if we've already put 342 million euros in it? And you are in debt in closed markets at extremely high interest rates. I'm going to support the Interpellation against the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor, Mr Franz Breznik is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself said in the debate that I would decide on the basis of the Minister's replies on whether I would support the interpretation or not. Sadly, he answered me, but he responded in this way that he was mostly quiet or inappropriate, so I got the answers from his performance. Apparently, he didn't know about the recapitalisation in May and it was done past him, so it's also hard to comment and difficult to explain. Another time. Why and how was a controlled liquidation chosen instead of bankruptcy? We asked, on the basis of what mercurial information or calculation the individual choice was made, that is to say, controlled liquidation instead of bankruptcy. Here, too, the minister replied in some way that such comparisons were not practically made, but they decided, obviously politically, to save 0.5% of the committees, owners who, of course, are more influential than the other part of these investors, 35 000, or 99.5%. It is said that the Minister responded in some way today throughout the entire debate, responding in some way, also in some way, to why we were in debt in the closed market last week, not in the open market. There, too, in some way, he gave an answer in his silence, not only to why and how, but it is clear that this country does not at present hope in the open market, because in this case it should show its balance sheets and also its face as regards its obligations to the European Union, as regards the balance of public finances, as regards the measures it is implementing. In the closed market, however, it is clear that the issue of supply and demand is, in some ways, at hand, and therefore interest is also appropriate. In a few months or even before, we will probably find out what the commissions were, who received them and so on, and it will probably be the same as the warning in the case of the Minister of Economic Affairs, when you have also been so vehemently defending that everything is fine and all is well, but in the end it turns out that a lot of things that you are so vehemently defending turn out to be problematic. However, this interpretation answered many of the questions raised, including the lack of answers by the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor and he is preparing for Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I don't see the Minister of Finance here, I've also asked him some normal questions, but of course the first answer to what I can tell him is, above all, this passivity. I think that in my debate today I have analysed the flow of developments in foreign financial markets, particularly in the profits of 10-year-old bonds. I showed him the state of the beginning of the second Janša government and, above all, the state of functioning of the 8 months of the government of Alenka Bratušek. All that matters in the market economy is, above all, financial markets, how investors believe in a country, how they believe in a country's policies. And if you say politics is a game, politics is also a game with bigger sums. The Minister of Finance swore before the National Assembly, in particular in order to act according to his best ability, primarily for the welfare of citizens and citizens. We have somehow established this country to raise the welfare of citizens and citizens, that was the most important decision, we have decided to pursue a market economy, and we have decided to show all our strength, which the Slovenian people have in long history, when living in fertilisation with other most important cultures, nations and where we have lived for at least some time with some Protestant ethics, and I believe that if this nation has the opportunity, it can also have some future. Today, the Minister of Finance, I have to admit, he has disappointed me, in particular, that he has not put forward some substantial arguments why he has decided to pursue a policy, why he supports the total act of economic policy, when Janša's government's policy has shown an incredible decline in these basic gains over the past few months, even to a level of 4.2%, which in this situation in our country, when the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is relatively weak, has been a very good achievement. Therefore, I must admit that reading with silence, poor reasoning, are the foundations of today's multi-hour debate that point to some bad conscience of the minister. I would ask once again if he has the opportunity today to answer all those fundamental questions about why the rehabilitation of these two small tycoon banks is such. I would understand if this was happening with the New Ljubljana Bank so that the banking system could sit down and why such a direction would lead to economic policy. Why is it so passive when it should somehow react within other ministries to a better economic policy. These are fundamental questions for the Minister today, to whom he had to answer and there is no answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u270	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, and prepare yourself for Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u271	I must say, I didn't answer my phone until this morning, but others mentioned me. I must say that I was mentioned in this context, that I did not answer some questions at the time of the interpretation and that I was not here and I do not know what. At my interpretation, I said 17 000 334 words, and Mr Cuffer 2 000 538, so his stomach probably hurts, but that's the way it is. In short, I think I've done my job well. But I have to respond in my only performance this morning at the morning's performance of the President of the Government. This is, I mean, it's amazing that the presidents of the government are lying in the camera, and then it's bad! She spoke this morning about how the worst loans were granted at the time of the Janša government, how we then owed and so on and so on and made it for the responsibility of Janša's government. Once again, it is necessary to repeat for the Slovenian public: Mr Kramar led the bank, which Mr Rop has set up. It's clear as day, so LDS. The contract was signed by Mr Zunič, and the contract was such that he eventually received a million euros in retirement. What's the government got to do with this? Nothing! And as for the debt, then he went to the Factor Bank, which we talked a lot about today, where he was in charge of risky business. Isn't that an interesting thing? This is Mr. Zunich. As far as credits are concerned, of course it is very clear, Mr. Montenegro has shown you a whole range of tables, graphs and so on and everything is clear, more than a white day. And talk about credits 2006, 2007, 2008 and inside to include population loans – yes, who is responsible for the credit that you, me or anyone in this hall or any citizen has taken for washing machine, freezer box or anything? That's what the government is responsible for! And this is a performance by the Prime Minister! In this way, misleading is not worthy of the Prime Minister in any way, let alone anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u272	Thank you, too. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, but prepare yourself for the mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you, President. I would like to draw attention to some of the inconsistencies offered in today's debate, although there is not enough time to explain in more detail what has disturbed me, but I will say the following. The applicant claimed that the non-executive director was not supposed to have an important function. That was the first time he mentioned it. And secondly, he said that in a bad bank he was not even supposed to have a supervisory function, which is not true, because the Bad Bank Act for the Bank Management Company said that it was run by the Management Board, which has a single management system, which was designed for a bad bank, a management and control function. The Company Act in Article 257 further states that the Governing Board and the Managing Board have an extremely important role to play, particularly when the number of votes of the decision-makers is uniform. In this case, the President of the Management Board, the Chairman of the Management Body, shall have a decisive vote. In the case of the non-executive director of mags. This was about the fact that the chairman of the board of directors was a bad bank. I do not think it is good to demean these functions and it is good to say honestly that not only do non-executive directors have supervisory functions, this is, of course, also more precisely set out in the statute of the bank, but non-executive directors also have management functions; that is, because the participating corporate management body is involved in all decisions. For the second time, I would like to briefly draw attention to one of the information mentioned by my colleague, Chuš, who said that Spain is a success story, but he forgot to say that in Spain, currently 55% of young people are unemployed, in Slovenia, in the eastern region, where the most young people are unemployed, and 23% are. So much for the success story in the ESM mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr Borut Ambrožič has the floor and Mr Branko Smodiš is preparing [[...]] I'm sorry, Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, today she was given many valuable judgments, which were in the style of narrative techniques called black and white depiction. It is understood that the Minister of Finance was all black and everyone else, on the other hand, and in particular mag. It's wide, and it's all white and shiny. I fear that Mr Shircelj is not Atlas, who could bear the burden of prosperity throughout the country, not to say much more. In fact, it seems to me that when I assess the views of ethics and European values and business ethics, too, European, in fact, it is little doubtful that someone will bring an interpretation in which half of the interpretation is written in his defence against the minister, and this is, of course, a relief act, the main fault, and, above all, an attempt to minimize the function when it draws attention to the conflict of interests. The type of thing in this interpolation is so very incorruptible, but the fact is that if this interpolation were to be cleaned - and all that was happening today - we would have cleaned up all the doublings, all the endless repetitions, then we would not have to have this interpolation and decide on this interpolation on the second day when the interpolation started, but after a very short period of time. Although there is a repetitio est mother studio in the school, it shows that I will have to get used to the fact that there will not be enough one extraordinary meeting about the Factor Bank and Probank that we will have to have more extraordinary meetings. Finally, I saved what is also the characteristic of today's debate, that it was possible to hear a lot or most of what is not in interpretation, as well as Friday's news of Slovenia's indebtedness. The talk was about how Slovenia was in bad debt; it was possible to hear from the public Croatian media today that Croatia was in debt for a billion and a half percent interest rate in America – compare! I'm not going to support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr Borut Ambrožič has the floor and then Mr Branko Smodiš is prepared. Mr. Ambrožich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am also appearing for the first time today, and it is actually a real opportunity to use the Latin river that I have learned at the Faculty of Law in Maribor, which may somehow explain this silence of the minister, thus goes to qui tacet consentire videos or perhaps in his case qui tacet consentire non vitours :who is silent seems not to attach; in this case it does not attach to the charges that fly by the opposition who has filed the interpellation. However, as for the unanswered questions, I would say, the fresh Member is actually surprised that those who ask questions to the Minister will somehow not take advantage of the possible more intensive institution of questions sent, with which they can specifically ask each relevant minister about specific issues and also cases and, of course, within a procedural period, require an answer to the question raised. Today's arguments for interpolation, as is probably evident from the beginning of my explanation, have not convinced me, so I will not support interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr Branko Smodish has the floor and is preparing Mr Andrej Chuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I will not support the intervention of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufar. Why? Because if Probank and Factor Bank had been bankrupted, they would probably also be sitting here today discussing why bankruptcy and not liquidation, although it was clearly stated that there was less choice between two bad choices. I'm not going to comment on the second point of interpolation. The rules must be the same for everyone. Finally, I would just add whether the reason for the interpretation is a positive signal from the financial markets, a positive opinion from Brussels adopted by the 2014 budget, the European Commission's confidence gained – is this a problem? If this is going in the right direction, it looks like it's not good for someone. One more time at the end, I won't support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor and Mr Matjaž Han is ready. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. If you have all commented on and described the characteristics of today's session in such a broad and long way, we must all agree that the characteristic of today's meeting was, above all, that the Minister did not say anything and did not say anything. I do not know if the Minister does not answer to Parliament – I do not know what else he intends to withdraw before the vote? Like I said before, the minister spoke for 16 minutes and a half today. At that time, he did not answer any questions from the members of our parliamentary group or opposition. Yes, Mr. Brultz, you can sign up for the word, then. When there was so much talk about transparency; Mr Minister, I really want to know why we were in debt for a billion and a half on Friday, and who will make this 200 million interest. The discussion is also in the final stage of some commissions, I have already talked about 36 to 60 million euros. Then somehow I understand the happiness of the government representatives and those who made sure we were in debt. On my part, it has also been obvious that you have prepared the budget very creatively for the next two years, especially on the revenue side, and I am disturbed that you have not actually done anything on the expenditure side. On the contrary, on some items the funds are increasing and at the final stage the budget does not contain some items that will have a significant impact on the lives of Slovenes and Slovenians in the coming years. 4,84 is the interest rate on our three-year bonds. I've seen some of you mix between three-, one-, ten-year bonds and our situation is that we're right somewhere between Botswana and Romania and very close to the country of Chile. So we're not exactly proud of ourselves, and that says enough about what the international community and the world think about our fiscal policy. Every newborn gets 11 000 euros in debt on the expenditure side of the budget at the expense of this debt. I think that this is morally unacceptable to all young people and to those generations that are yet to come. I myself will support the interpolation, and I would like to point out that all your actions are directed against economic and rural obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, and Mr Bevk is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. After each such debater, I have some more economic knowledge. Because of the employees of this National Assembly who have been working for days and nights, I will cut my debate very short because of you, and I will just say that I support Mr Chufer and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr Bevk has the floor to prepare Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! On September 20th, we discussed this issue for eight hours, today we have been discussing this issue for almost 15 hours, 24 hours in total, so to speak. I think that these discussions, which go late at night even in the morning, are unproductive and have no rational explanation, so I would suggest to the College of the President of the National Assembly that you discuss how the National Assembly should work further. There are board meetings tomorrow at 7:00 a.m., and at 9:00 a.m., there's a meeting of the National Assembly. When we had that night-morning session, when we finished it at 7:00 in the morning, some of us had to go to a public hearing at 10:00 and we didn't have to close our eyes for 35 hours. This is no longer a normal job. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to ensure that, and also all the leaders of the parliamentary groups continue to do some normal work, because we are not in an emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u286	Thank you, too. Mr. Matevž Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u287	Yes, the list of 51 discussers was quickly, unexpectedly exhausted. Allow me, as the last of this line, to give some of my vision of today's events. I think that the interpolation, set at two points, is evident due to the controlled liquidation of two smaller banks and the resolution of mags. Andre Shirtzl, proved groundless. Thus, the Minister, although rarely, but weighedly as well as a number of debates and debaters, rejected the findings of the proposed interpretation and, I hope, in a convincing way, demonstrated that the chosen method of controlling the liquidation of Factor Bank and Probank is an appropriate solution for the country and, consequently, taxpayers in our country, a much more valuable solution. In order to prevent discreet and deliberate measures from becoming a problem of a broader dimension and, in fact, to threaten the entire banking system and the national economy as a whole. Secondly, in the case of the discharge of the former non-executive director and the President of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company, the procedure was correct and the law on Members was not clearly regulated by the law on integrity, but by the law on Members. Well, today's debate has shown that Dr. Urosh Choufer is now being tried for other events. Some of the panellists on the proposalr's side viewed them as more important Mr President, forgive me, but there is a very lively debate in the Chamber right now and I would like to conclude my thought in peace. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u288	Carry on, Mr. Frangež, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u289	I understand that time is running out, but, Mr President, circumstances do not allow for a very calm and collected debate. In short, the fact that Uroš Chufer is on the bench today due to Friday's debt is said to be circumstances that were not known at the time of the intervention. I must admit that today, Dr. Uroš Cuffer justified not only the trust I gave him as finance minister on the appointment of the government, but showed that by keeping a sober and sound and sound financial policy, he gave me reason to trust him more than I trusted him. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you, Mr Frangež, and sorry for the fact that there was not enough attention in the Chamber to listen to the last debate. In fact, this concludes the debate on interpolation. Interpellations propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, gives an untrustworthy statement to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Čufer. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Explanation of voice. May I invite you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the members of the groups? Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We will, of course, support the decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We estimate that Dr Uroš Cufer's accession to the liquidation of the two private banks was wrong, and these two private banks were supported by additional state money of EUR 108 million in May this year, at a time when the hands or, in particular, the funds from these two banks raised private owners or even paid dividends. So the minister privileged those who were responsible for bank-tacunk jobs by their conduct, privileged those who were responsible for the bad loans that would never be paid, and their debts would be paid by taxpayers. And we can't even know who it is. As a result of this decision and similar decisions taken by the Minister, the country's indebtedness will be greater than would be necessary. Following the resignation of the Minister of Economy, we believe that the country also needs a different approach in the area of public finances, in the field of tax policy, in the area of governance of state property, where we have listened to criticism today also by representatives of the DeSUS Group; the economy is jailing, the volume of credit is decreasing, the interest rates are high, the economy is therefore uncompetitive. Bank and credit crunches do not decrease, losses in Slovenian banks in the first 9 months of this year amount to EUR 567 million 300 000, in the same period last year EUR 115 million 200 000. The second reason on which we also supported this proposal for the discharge of Minister Uroš Cufer was the unlawful release of the Magi. Andrea Shirtzlj. This resolution was of a political nature; it took place at a written meeting on Friday afternoon, 13 September, a week after the state guarantee decision of EUR 30 million for guarantees in two private banks, a week after the decision taken by the mag. Andrej Shircelj in public challenged and criticized. So once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that the Minister needs to be resolved, which is why we will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you very much, President. Today we have been witness to the interpretation and the performance itself, which has only two points ahead of us: one thing, of course, is what they were convinced — those who filed the interpolation – that Mr Šircelj was unjustifiably resolved, and they claim, as we have just heard, that it is a political solution. It is true that in the National Assembly we make political decisions and in the Government we make political and professional decisions, which are accompanied by apparatus. And if it took us 16 hours to figure out that it was a political-professional decision – the Eureka! And secondly, what is important is that today we have also found that Banka Slovenije is the one who has taken the decision and we are confident today, at least in the majority that this was the right decision, but it is true that the Government has also given the consent for this agreement and that the Ministry of Finance, of course with a hand in hand, has cooperated in that it is right that these decisions in this direction also happen. The minister explained it today, explained it several times, but it really didn't fall on that fertile ground, because before he could say anything, you said in advance that you didn't believe him. In Positive Slovenia we will therefore vote against this interpretation, Minister, and congratulations for your good stand with low pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Matthew Tonin has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u295	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We've been massaging the Minister of Finance since 9:00 a.m. Obviously, after not having withdrawn from his style for so many hours, that is, he is very rarely, as you could see, Members were very dissatisfied about this, I hope that his wife is satisfied with this. If I say the following, the Minister has definitely given too little explanation, too little data, and this certainly raises uncertainty and fear in the financial markets. We Christian Democrats have already asked him some very simple questions in the morning and have given him the opportunity to answer them in concrete terms and get our support. These questions were: Why didn't you send compulsory administrations to Factor Bank and Probank first and then decide what was cheaper for the country: bankruptcy or controlled liquidation? We asked you: If you knew that these two banks were in trouble, then why were you still investing their state deposits? Why did the state place deposits in banks where neither the owners of these two banks believe any more? Why is there only a small handful of people being saved with at least €400 million of government money? And: Why did not the banks whose 99,5 % of the commissioners have fewer than 100,000 applications and are guaranteed by the State send them to bankruptcy? I think these were very clear, very simple questions, and I think for you as an expert there are no excessively difficult questions. For hours you had the opportunity to answer them, unfortunately you did not want to or should not. I don't know what the real reason is. You're the only one who knows. Since we have not received these answers, you probably understand that we will support this interpretation and vote in favour of your resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, would you like to explain your voice? In her own name, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj will explain her voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u297	I see one of them is already very tired. I will support the interpretation because, like my colleagues, we have not received some answers. The PM said we have money by the end of the year, the minister said we have it by April, in Vilnius he even said we have full bills of money, and yet we borrowed one billion and a half from the very high interest that we're going to have to pay back, or we don't know how, but we'll be dealing with it when it's real. Coalition Members have said that things turn out better, that they come from the European Union, and the Prime Minister reads reports like that, although, if we read them very well, they are not very grateful, but they say that there is no reservation, that there must be no derogation, that we must stick to it strictly and so on. Some things have also been done with our help, even though you keep telling us that we do not want to cooperate. We have adopted an amendment to the referendum legislation, a fiscal rule and more. While time will show whether the controlled liquidation is the right move or not; what has occurred since then, since that meeting you mentioned, not why bankruptcy or liquidation, but what we have been asking the minister – we have found out in the question of parliament, about those who think we do not know what we have at our disposal, that there was an audit, that is, since 26 April, and he saw how the banks are – why he then invested over 100 million state deposits into the bank, why he did not put them into liquidation or bankruptcy at the time of that 100 million investment and thus allowed Mr. Rigelnik, and some others, to take them out of 6.9 million. That's the question, and that's what we've been asking the Minister. He didn't answer that question, so, as we say, I'm going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-20-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u298	Thank you. I note that we can decide on the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, expresses its distrust of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing Dr. Urosh Choufer's Minister of Finance is not trusted. has not been voted on. Mr. Minister, would you like to speak to the National Assembly at the conclusion of the meeting? Clear message. Thank you. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 19th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue today at 9 a.m. Good night.
