ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mr Srečko Meh and Mr Jožef Horvat. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and other representatives of the Government to the meeting, and I warmly welcome all those present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday, 2 October 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, and that we move on to a decision. Before doing so, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour against 24. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. Procedurally wishes Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose that the Government withdraw the draft budget for 2014 and 2015 from the legislative process. In fact, a report by Umar came days ago, in which key macroeconomic forecasts based on the concept of the budget changed significantly. I think today we have received a report from the Bank of Slovenia, which also weakens all key macroeconomic data. Economic growth is significantly lower or the decline in economic growth is significantly higher than anticipated in budget planning. In addition, consumption is falling, further reducing or increasing employment, which means that the macroeconomic environment is substantially changing. Based on the deterioration of key data, it is not possible to expect companies to contribute higher profits to the state budget because it is a macro-economic environment in which it works worse and also falls. Taxes on VAT consumption cannot be expected to be as much as they are planned because employment is falling because wages are falling because income interventions are taking place and other duties are also increasing. The decline of investments is significantly increased. Previously, growth has been projected, now it is a decline and all this data shows that the baselines for preparing this budget are unrealistic. On the other hand, the Government has not submitted all the laws necessary for the implementation of the budget and has acted in contravention of the Public Finance Act as well as contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the Government must submit all the laws necessary for the implementation of the budget in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the law when the budget is presented. Today, we have not yet received the Real Estate Act, which has major effects on the state budget, about 0.5 GDP or deficits. We don't have an intervention health bill, and we don't have a lot of other marriages. In short, not only are the macroeconomic conditions significantly worse, but the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not met, so I propose that the President-in-Office withdraw the budget from the procedure. If the Government does not do this on its own initiative, I propose that the National Assembly vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u3	Thank you, too. We discussed this a lot at the College when we decided on the agenda and the time for discussion. Let me say that all documents allowing the consideration of the budget and the Memorandum for 2014 and 2015 are submitted to the National Assembly. Whether the government will comply with your procedural proposal, we may hear from the views of the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, who, of course, will also present a memorandum. We're moving on to one. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I counted or thought you were listening well to the procedural proposal. I have proposed that in the event that the Government of this proposal, which does not correspond to the actual state and situation, as well as to the forecasts made by the two, I also estimate that for the Government of the Eminent Institutions – namely Umar, the Government Office, and the Bank of Slovenia – the Government itself withdraws the proposal from the procedure and prepares a new budget for 2014 and 2015. If he does not do so, I propose that we vote on it. I must further conclude that, on the basis of the fact that not all documents have been submitted, there are some EUR 210 million in the budget, which are written in the property tax item. There is no law, the government has planned it, we don't know what kind of law will be passed, what kind of burdens, what kind of tariff part will it be. Secondly, there is also no health intervention law introduced into the legislative process, which brings about €70 million of effects, which are also planned here. Given that macroeconomic circumstances have changed, given that no laws have been tabled, this budget has around a billion euro on the revenue side of outstanding cases. I would also like to draw attention to another detail – this budget is not in line with the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Commission. There it was agreed that two thirds of the deficit would be reduced on the expenditure side or recovered on the expenditure side and one third on the revenue side. This budget seeks solutions only on the revenue side, so to speak, on the tax side and additional burdens. Mr President, I propose that you put our Group's procedural proposal to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Look, the budget proposalr is the government. It is at the National Assembly that this act is being examined and may, in the end, be adopted or rejected. The procedural decision of the National Assembly not to consider the budget is contrary to any commercial practice in the National Assembly. I said that all the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure were met so that the debate could begin. However, if the Government really takes note of your warnings and let us listen, this is also the subject of today's meeting, where we will listen to both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, who will present these two important acts to us. So I cannot put to the vote your proposal because it is not within the competence of the National Assembly to reject this act or withdraw it from the procedure, that is an act of the Government. We are moving to the first part of the consideration and adoption of the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 in the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 156, paragraph 3, and Article 166, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the Budget Memorandum 2014-2015, a proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. There is no debate on this presentation. I give my word to the President of the Magnificent Government. Mr Alenki Bratušek to present these budget documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! The government is coming to the National Assembly with budgets for 2014 and 2015 at a wide range of times when stability seems to be more important than development and social peace than creative unrest. Let me now introduce into some kind of summary my Government's efforts into three fundamental moves to judge the proposed budget. Firstly, the budget deficit is set at below 3%, thus meeting one of the fundamental requirements for our European credibility. Secondly, we have not sacrificed development to debt, but we have committed as much to education, investment in knowledge and research as possible in the current situation. Thirdly, investments are not slowed down, on the contrary, we are increasing them as we combine them with European funds and focus them significantly more. Each of these moves will be further elaborated, and in the introduction, allow me to summarise the assessment of the situation that led us in the preparation of the budget. The consideration of the budget takes place in situations that are not favourable to Slovenia, and pessimism is high in the country. There are not many people who ask again and again whether a threesome will come to us. Some of these are also among the politicians who are calling on the troika to come to the country. The question before us is whether the situation is really that bad. The answer to this question and the real assessment of the situation are essential for making the right decisions and deciding on the budget is one of the most important decisions at this time. Therefore, allow me to assess our economic and social situation with a view to the first part of my presentation. Why, then, is the budget as it is: demanding, saving, sometimes risky, but nowhere dangerous? Because the stability programme obliges us to reduce the budget deficit. In addition to the resolution of the banking system and sustainable public finances, this is the commitment that qualifies us for any future debate if we want to participate in it as equal. The budget is the same as it is, because Slovenia's negative economic growth – in the last quarter is minus 1.7% – makes it impossible to plan further development. We could be comforted by the fact that, for the first time in a year, the decline in economic growth did not exceed negative 3%, but for this government it is a bad comfort. The budget is this because we have, with sufficient consensus and also with a bearable measure of political pragmatism, framed the matter with a fiscal rule and amended the referendum legislation so that the budget can be seriously planned and implemented. It hurts to hear speculation these days that the cost of bank rehabilitation projects everything there from one billion to seven billion euros. The fact is that the precise assessment of this cost until the outcome of the stress tests remains the largest unknown and has in many ways affected our maximum caution in preparing the budget. Neither I nor the Minister nor the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia know this assessment. And everything before, last but not least, as an important factor in reality, we have taken into account the dissatisfaction of people in the preparation of the budget. It's not just piled up, it's justified. I understand that, because the government cannot count on understanding people for difficult moves until the open criminal and corrupt acts are consistently punished. Let me close this framework with two highlights, which make the picture more promising. This government managed to reduce the number of unemployed and exports increased by 2.3% this year. The first is too small, and the second is not only our thanks, but the result of the first signs of recovery across Europe. But if we were to overlook these two points in general vision, we would be completely without need to overwhelm the enthusiasm in two areas that are crucial for future Slovenian development. Only quality employees and citizens and quality export products or services can provide Slovenia with the necessary human and financial resources so that we can live and develop at the level of our expectations. These framework, or, if you want, entry conditions for the preparation of the budget are good to have in front of the eyes, in order to make it easier to explain which fundamental and difficult dilemmas we had to have all the time in our head, so that we could respond to these conditions with appropriate decisions. More severe than the crisis, some are more difficult than others and there are fewer good solutions. The circumstances in which this moment Slovenia and the respect for the commitments made to European partners by the previous government on behalf of Slovenia were very close to our decision-making edge and put us in line with difficult dilemmas. We have often chosen between two options with unpleasant consequences. But when you, honourable Members, evaluate the proposed budget, I ask you to have, in addition to all the specific numbers that concern you and your constituents in one way or another, these dilemmas before your eyes, because they concern us all in order as citizens of Slovenia. I've helped with the budget over the last few years. It is difficult to prepare, but it is very difficult to prepare a budget in times of crisis. This government has prepared it for the second time within six months, if we take into account the rebalancing. In doing so, we did not fight or break up and, contrary to certain predictions, we have both coordinated it without major cuts in social rights and pensions and without unilateral intervention in wages. I am aware that this is, for some people, the sin of this government, but we are particularly proud of it. Not only because we want to be the government's social sense, but also because we want to avoid such measures as long as we can, because through reduced demand they also lead to a fall in GDP and economic decline. If I have once seen my task in preparing the budget in particular in that all the numbers of others have come out right, I now understand the task of the President of the Government in that he has no other than to think of the whole, wider picture. How not to strain any of the dilemmas to such a strain that it could drive the whole society apart, is to put it over the edge of the possible, or burden it over the edge of the bearable one. Since you will be familiar with the specific numbers below, my colleague Uroš will stay here alone for a little while longer. Yes, we walk on the edge — all together in these difficult times. But if we are aware that we are in this together, then decisions are not necessarily exclusive, exclusive, but necessarily inclusive. So what dilemmas will you recognize in the proposed budget? The most difficult issue was the tax revenue dilemma. Here was our criterion of social justice. When the President of the Republic expressed his dissatisfaction with the current tax reform in September 2006, Drnovšek said: "Taxing the population is an essential element of social justice. Any tax change should be a step towards a more fair distribution of the burdens of public finances on our citizens." I am convinced that with the proposed budget we are working precisely in this direction, in the direction of social justice. That's why we went into a change in value added tax, because the most fair distribution of burdens among those who consume more. That is why we will tax the property and therefore most relentlessly pursue the property whose origin the holder cannot convincingly explain and prove. In this particular dilemma, I would also like to very clearly reject the interference of this Government with the designation "neoliberal". The tax collector also squeezed all other segments of society, including rights and freedoms. So it's no wonder that people had enough of their previous government. I am honored when prominent sociologist Tomaž Mastnak says that there are no special reasons for people to hate the current Prime Minister, but at the same time I understand his message that people will judge us by what we do and not by what we say. And just by doing so, my Government, if you support our budget, will prove the difference between neoliberal brutality and social justice. The second dilemma concerns the relationship between the public sector and investment. Critics tell us that we do not hope to build because we do not hope to forgive ourselves, but the preservation and development of the public sector does not mean the preservation of services and privileges; it means the preservation and development of fundamental acquisitions of a solidarity society: education, health, social protection. Therefore, Slovenia is rightly allergic to every mention of the wild privatisation of these sectors, as they are literally dependent on our future. The safe age of our parents and the safe youth of our children. Take a closer look at the figures on these items and you will see that Slovenia does not renounce public service standards even in times of crisis, as this would cut into the most sensitive tissue of society. The third dilemma concerns the alleged choice between investing in development and servicing of debts, giving us debts before we even get to the capital, taking most of the investment in human resources. That's not true! I mentioned in the introduction that, despite the crisis, we have managed to preserve most of the funds, and we measure individual reductions by one number percentage, for example in research from 250 million to 235 million euros. Dear Members, so far I have hardly mentioned the customary division of this Parliament into coalition and opposition, to the previous and present government. It seems to me that in dealing with many dilemmas, our answers should be common regardless of which side of this hall or political field they come from. We have to meet international obligations. We have to respect domestic people. We must contribute to the democratic development of Europe, but we must not give up our own sovereignty. However, there are some moves in which I have to point the criticism directly at the opposition, as the preparation of the budget, both at home and through contacts in Brussels, has shown how quickly political indiscretion, not to say stupidity, can lead to more numerous consequences. So why is our budget different from yours? Because he's not calling the threesome, he's trying to do everything he can to solve our domestic problems at home. Because we're paying off your debts. Between 2004 and 2008, Slovenia's gross external debt doubled from 20 billion to 40 billion. Doubled it! The taxpayers will pay for this when the banks are rehabilitated. The first Janša government did not react to this at the time, and the debt that was primarily owed to businesses and banks, the population being among the less indebted in Europe, today will be paid by taxpayers. Our country's total gross debt is still practical at the same level as in 2008, because we are not breaking the budget. In the first three months of this year, when Janez Janša, according to the Anti-Corruption Commission, said goodbye to the Prime Minister, you left us 800 million euro of the budget hole. Today, this same budget at the monthly level is already exaggerating, because we can find a compromise, as we have demonstrated both in the fiscal rule and in the referendum legislation, and as a result, I am also optimistic about dialogue with the social partners. Because skeletons, constitutional decisions, pensions, regrees of public servants have fallen from the closets, they have been erased, wage imbalances and because we say bob beans and problems and problems we don't sweep under the carpet just to make it look good. Slovenia has made commitments under the previous government from the fiscal pact. It is an international agreement that we are obliged to respect and we will. You all know that there is a rather sharp debate in the European Union about the appropriateness or harmfulness of the austerity policy. It is true that Slovenia is also involved in this debate, but I would like to point out that this debate is first of all in European institutions. We will never get into the position of a student who wants to hide his inadequacy on the exam by starting a discussion with the professor. On the contrary! It is only after a well-done test based on the work ahead that it is possible to have a truly equal debate between the two, and in this European debate we want to play a part, as it builds our future together. So let me take this presentation of the budget slowly with a look across. The budget does not end the work, but it does start. What we are planning, and especially financially today, will be realized tomorrow, but it will be known tomorrow, and this calendar budget is very clear to ask what it brings to tomorrow's budget. In other words, what Slovenia we're talking about. We are talking about European Slovenia, and we are sticking to all the data, including yours, promises. Since our limitations on debt due to a high interest rate are considerable, we have no choice but to address the budget framework with a smart balance between increasing revenue and reducing budget expenditure. We are talking about a sovereign Slovenia, because these European commitments do not bind us or our tongue or our hands so as not to fight for a change of paradigm in advance. Our government has announced, in accordance with a pre-announced commitment to sharp austerity measures that place the burden of the crisis on those who do not have anything to do with it, the extension of the deadline for achieving a balanced budget in Brussels. This has helped us to avoid even more rigorous austerity, which would cause too much harm to our citizens. We are going, and this is the third face of our country, European and sovereign, we are talking about social and fair Slovenia. It is our job to avoid social conflict, not to flee into the illusion of a society of complete utopian consensus, but to see together and to act that there are so many new ideas and good practices that we are able to have a joint discussion, then a social agreement and, consequently, a social contract. Let me remind you that in this harsh word, there is a contract on which all serious business and personal arrangements are based, first and foremost, hidden. So, contact, communication. You will also remember that I put forward my first performance before you in my role as a candidate for a term holder in the sign of some "are" words. Then I saw the goal in a tiny word that was hard to stand alone. But when you face others, harder to say, they sound kinder. Decision becomes codecision, participation. The whole stay becomes a co-existence. Then, as the motto of this mandate, I proposed this fragile word "they" as you can find at the beginning of the word solidarity. I thought about it again last week when it was necessary to say a few sharp words, sharp but thoughtful words, so that we could step together and find new stability. We have people and have enough to make decisions and live instead of us, that others live our lives. We want to be good neighbours and the best contemporarys, and above all, let us work together today to be fellow citizens of our sovereign European country. Let us work together to live full, active, successful, and honest lives. When I said all those "they" words in March this year, I also made a commitment, which we then wrote in cooperation agreement, to come within one year to get a confidential one. Now is the time. Therefore, I ask now, not only for your confidence, that we will be able to meet the proposed budget, but also for your confidant, so that with this government we can realise the budget for the good of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members of the Opposition and Coalition! We met in these benches a year after the election. For the past six months, you've been able to get to know me in my second role, first among the ministers. But I've never been with so much expectation and certainty that I'm doing the right thing, I've come before you as I am today. Many things have been put in the right place, some will be, but I know the key thing already today. In the given situation and with a given team, we have done everything in our power to find the right measure to produce a realistic, sustainable and sustainable budget between the legitimate dissatisfaction of people, the difficult crisis situation and the consistent fulfilment of the Brussels commitments. The preparation of the budget is always a very difficult task. In the acute times in which we live, it is more difficult. The task, which may appear more professional and technical in conjunctural times, becomes very political in the crisis budget, requiring changes in the distributional levels of benefits and burdens of individual social groups. The test is the government, the strength of the coalition, in this case the credibility of the state. The budget document you receive for your assessment, honourable Members and with you all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, we understand in the Government and the Coalition as a bumper to ensure the preservation of Slovenia's full political and public financial sovereignty. It seems that some in the opposition of this sovereignty do not understand more than value and believe that Slovenia is best placed to have a threesome as soon as possible. Among those who say that the early arrival of the troika will reduce the cost of financial recovery are those who have prepared an unrealistic, unbalanced budget, which we have already had to root out. Therefore, I understand their assessment of the financial effects of the arrival of the troika as a comrade’s self-criticism of their own financial policies and projections. Criticism is necessary, and we will try to understand it positively and also follow it. Please remember, however, that my government was not the one that allowed external gross debt to be raised twice in 2004-2008, and that is exactly what we will be paying at the time of the bank's rehabilitation. Nor did my government participate in the negotiations on the fiscal pact, which today significantly reduces our fiscal space. I keep the promises I made myself, and I only make those promises that I can keep. For the proposed budget, I can therefore promise you that it will put Slovenia back on track for development and progress. We must not lose face or face on this path. We need to know where we are going all the time, but at the same time we must by no means come to the goal so changed that we will no longer recognize ourselves and our dear Slovenia. Do you know how I see her? Like Scandinavian justice and like Mediterranean bravery. Such a Slovenia is considered to be an effort until the last atom of power and with colleagues and co-workers, with the whole government we will continue to do everything possible to respond to your suggestions and criticisms, to dispel our concerns and to take into account our concerns. Allow me at the end another thought of my great political model, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, who, even today, 7 years since it was written, still holds: "We certainly want constructiveness, because our approach is fundamentally positive, but sometimes people think that if you are positive and peaceful, it is a sign of weakness, but the truth is completely different. A positive approach carries a great deal of power, it will not eliminate the negatives, otherwise, if you would leave them space and withdraw, and then the world would continue to be bad, perhaps even worse than it is now. Therefore, sometimes it is necessary to accept a battle, some understanding only the language of power, but it is just an emergency, but it is not our desire. As soon as we find ourselves in communication with positive people, we are soft, kind, and constructive and will move on. We will respond to kindness with kindness, and we will quickly find the right answers, even sharp and firm if necessary. Our goal is a friendly Slovenia. That must be the state. I want everyone to work together on this goal so that we don't play against each other, but we would all swim in the same direction and help each other." Dear Members, may this budgetary debate be a sort of workshop, how can we build a friendly Slovenia otherwise, patiently, justly, in solidarity. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u7	Thank you, too. I give the following word to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer, for an additional presentation of the 2014-2015 Budget Memorandum, a proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and a proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I said it in the right order this time. The economic and fiscal policies of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013-2016 are set out in the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, which were adopted as early as May this year. However, the Council of the European Union has submitted its reports to these two programmes. In accordance with this and in accordance with the fiscal pact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia follows the 2014 budget changes in the Sredlogo budget and the 2015 budget proposal to achieve two key public financial objectives, which I know you already know, nevertheless. It is said that the structurally balanced balance by 2017 and the correction of the country's surplus deficit by 2015. The Slovenian economy is facing gradual and very gradual stabilisation with measures for the stability of public finances and the rehabilitation of the financial system. The preparation of the 2014 draft amending budget and the 2015 draft budget were based on the following starting points; the correction of the excessive deficit by 2015 and the improved structural balance, as I mentioned earlier, which were two key objectives that led us in how we actually steered this programme towards the assessment of economic developments by Umar, from autumn this year. Indeed, it was published one day after we also published the budget, but in our assessment and preparation of budgets we have taken into account the estimates that we have already had; the reduction in gross social product in 2013 by 2.4 due to the decline in private investment consumption, the decline in economic growth in 2014 by 0.8% of gross domestic product and the very slight increase in gross domestic production by 0.4 in 2015. We have noted that the financing of businesses due to credit crunches is limited and that, due to the European Commission's quality requirements, the quality of resources for carrying out a quality review of assets and stress tests has been delayed by two quarters and has also resulted in a slightly slower recovery of the economy. We have also taken into account that due to good exports on the one hand, and on the other hand due to measures to save surpluses in the current balance of payments account, which, fortunately, provides adequate liquidity for the economy and can operate despite the fact that the banks are not yet functioning perfectly normally. On this basis, we have drawn up a deficit of the whole sector of the country, as demonstrated by ESA methodology 95 – without expenditure on bank recovery, which we do not yet know exactly what they will be – by which the European Commission monitors its own budget and all Member States, to be at least 4% in 2013, and in 2014 it will fall to 3.2% and in 2015 to 2.5%. This brings us into the framework we have drawn up in the stability programmes and in line with the recommendations we have received. If I withdraw the expenditure and revenue measures, which I will then present in a little more detail and which are part of the amending budget for 2014 and in the draft budget for 2015, the expenditure side includes a reduction in public sector salaries, non-coordination of pensions, non-coordination and reduction of social transfers, and a significantly rational use of current expenditure. On the revenue side, however, it may be possible to stress the rise in the VAT rate which was carried out in mid-year and will only be strongly reflected in the following year; the introduction of a real estate tax which is already in preparation and is waiting to come to your desks; the harmonisation of the reduction of corporate tax rates. I would particularly like to mention the fight against the grey economy, which we have given very much attention to and have taken advantage of the opportunity that Croatia has entered the European Union and that we have actually been freed of resources at the border that we have been able to redirect to the fight against the grey economy. Revenues in 2014 are projected at EUR 8.6 billion, i.e. EUR 745 million more than estimated revenue for 2013. The main elements, such as real estate taxation, will provide an additional EUR 205 million in the state budget and a second half of this property tax, which will be allocated to municipalities as compensation for the current NUSZ. In order to improve the fulfilment of tax obligations and to combat the grey economy, I would mention the supervision of cash transactions or tax repositories, which we have introduced in an easier form and which will begin to bear results. I would like to mention more stringent restrictions on cash transactions, which are in preparation, extended powers and reinforcement of inspections. We have already strengthened the inspections, and at the same time we have proposed that their powers can be extended so that their effectiveness will be significantly greater. At the same time, we are working to bring the tax and customs services together into a single financial administration that will allow for a comprehensive review of this business. I would also mention in this area the various sectoral measures that go towards improving the regulation of records in the field of labour, health, forestry, winemaking, bakery, tourism, not to mention everyone, is a very significant list. From further action, I would stress in particular the halting of the reduction in corporate income tax at 17% and the restriction on the transfer of corporate losses from previous years to 50%, which will contribute to the budget of around € 160 million. I have already mentioned the increase in value added tax rates, which will bring EUR 143 million more than was realized in 2013. I would also mention that revenue from the European Union has been planned in the budget or is planned in a budget of €1.2 billion. With a view to obtaining as many European funds as possible, we have been discussing this since 2013 and working on how to obtain additional rights to have funding for reserve projects of EUR 450 million and how to actually add additional flexibility to the implementation of these projects. Expenditure for the 2014 budget is planned to amount to EUR 9.6 billion, amounting to 322 million more than in the 2014 budget adopted and 230 million more than was estimated for the end of 2013. On the expenditure side, when we look at what is happening in relation to past years, we see that the expenditure framework of integral resources is declining. Integral funds are planned to amount to €7.9 billion and fall by 24 million over the previous year. In view of the year 2010, it is estimated that EUR 370 million. European funds and Slovenian participations cover up to €1.4 billion, which are primarily intended for investment investments. I would also like to stress the earmarked funds, which are mainly devoted to environmental and transport infrastructure and are planned at €316 million. The 2014 budget changes are particularly pronounced in the category to reduce labour costs on the basis of an agreement on additional wage measures and other public sector labour costs to balance public finances. For goods and services, €570 million is foreseen in the budget and is reduced by €70 million in 2013 and €100 million in 2012. Individual and household transfers amount to EUR 1.2 billion and are comparable to the 2013 level, which shows that we also had in view of the fact that we are in difficult times within the crisis and that we have to worry that this item remains the same, that it is also possible to live normally in Slovenia for those who may have lower incomes or who do not have any income. Transfers to a pension fund amounting to around €1.5 billion are provided. For transfers to indirect budgetary users and public service providers, EUR 1.8 billion is allocated, which is more or less at the 2013 level, and subsidies are at the level of EUR 400 million, which is less than those earmarked in previous years for these same purposes. We should also point out that, in fact, because Slovenia is more indebted than it has been in previous years, interest costs amount to almost a bad billion euros and are higher than they have been in previous years, if we look back a few years, even significantly higher. As regards balance sheet B or the financial claims and investments account, I would mention two elements, namely the recapitalisation of banks. The beginning of the transfer of bad claims to a bad bank was planned already this year, but due to uncertainty whether this will end this year or whether this will happen next year, due to stress tests and "asset quality review" we planned additional funds also next year. As regards the funds for the rescue and restructuring of companies and the promotion of various projects, we have also earmarked additional funds. Here, in particular, I would mention a liquidity programme across the banking system, which is said to be a 500 million-dollar SID financial engineering scheme, for which the country has earmarked €120 million, which will draw on part of this year, and partly in the following year and year. If I go further to the financing account, it is said to be on balance sheet C. This provides for a debt of EUR 4.8 billion for the purposes of repayment of past years' maturity of EUR 3.3 billion and a reduction of €1 billion in accounts. We have to get used to it that now that the debt of the country has increased, even every year there will be a substantial increase in resources and that we will have to be present on international financial markets every year, sometimes after several times. As regards the 2015 budget, consolidation continues. The government budget deficit is foreseen at 2.4% of the gross social product, amounting to around €860 million, and also provides for a gradual reduction in the government budget debt. Revenues are planned at EUR 8.6 billion. In particular, I would like to point out that we do not foresee any new tax burdens for 2015, as we do for 2014 we do not foresee any new tax measures to be taken in the coming year, and in fact we want to establish tax stabilisation and enable businesses to know what burdens they will face so that they can plan their investments and their operations normally. Expenditure for 2015 is planned at EUR 9.5 billion. I think that this budget for 2014 and 2015 actually leads towards fiscal stabilisation. Your Honor! It takes into account all the above, I propose that the National Assembly support the draft amending budget for 2014 and the draft budget for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-08-SDZ6-Izredna-45.ana.u9	Thank you, too. This concludes the presentation of the 2014-2015 budget memorandum of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the 2015 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Čufer, thank you once again for the presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Members and Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, interested working bodies and the Government may submit amendments to the 2014 Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia no later than three days before the meeting of the National Assembly, at which the draft amending budget will be considered. However, as regards the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, Members and Members, Members and interested working bodies may submit amendments up to and including 18 October 2013. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for participating and seeing me at the next session.
