ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 3, Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Katarina Hočevar, Mrs Tamara Vonta, Mrs Tina Komel, Mr. Janez Ribič, Mr. Peter Wilfan, Mr. Jožef Horvat [[From 17:00 on]] , mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, Mr. Matjaž Han [[from 15 hours to 15 hours]] And Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 5 February, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 27th extraordinary meeting be extended by the point of the Mandate-Electorial Affairs under A: Proposal for a decision to establish the termination of the presidency and the appointment of the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and under B: Proposal for a decision to decide on the termination of the post of Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. You received an extension proposal on 6 February. I ask if a representative of the proposer would like a word. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? You don't want to. Does the representative of the proposer wish to further explain his proposal? Obviously not, because it's not before. This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We first vote on the proposal to expand the agenda. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as point A1 immediately after the setting of the agenda for the meeting. The National Assembly will also address the issues addressed at today's meetings by the Mandate-Volution Commission in the framework of the Mandate-Volution cases. We are moving to a full vote on the draft agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving to A1. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We now proceed to the examination of the Conclusions on the reinstatement of the function of a Member and the conclusion on the termination of the function of a Member pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on Members The Government forwarded a decision to the National Assembly of 6 February which concludes that Mr Ljubo Žnidar was relieved of his duties as State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly that it be informed on the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members as follows: 1. On 6 February, the National Assembly, on the basis of a Government decision of 6 February, notes that Ljubo Žnidar has been relieved of his functions as State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, and is therefore re-entering the post of Member with effect from 7 February 2013. 2. Ms Alenka Koren Gomboc, who served as a Member of Parliament instead of Mr Ljub Žnidar at the time he served as Secretary of State, shall cease to serve as a Member of State with effect from 7 February 2013. In doing so, I thank Mrs Alenka Koren Gomboc for her work in the National Assembly. However, I invite Mr Ljub Žnidar's fellow Member to join us and occupy his post and I wish him to perform his duties as a Member successfully. Welcome, Comrade Ljubo Žnidar. / applause/ Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the end of the presidency and on the appointment of the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. At its 10th meeting, on 1 February 2013, the National Assembly concluded that Mag. Mr Andrej Shircelj, who served as Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, since 1. 2. 2013 cannot act as a Member while acting as Secretary of State, which also gave rise to the termination of the chairmanship of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. On 6 February 2013, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group informed me that Mrs Patrijo Šulin, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation, had proposed a proposal for a decision for the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I ask if a representative of the applicants would like a word. He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? You don't want to. We have thus concluded this part because there was no desire to present opinions. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for this Decision. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing the termination of the presidency and the appointment of the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the termination of the post of Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. At its 10th meeting, on 1 February 2013, the National Assembly took note of the conclusion that Mag. Marko Pogačnik, who served as Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, has not been able to act as a Member since 1 February 2013, as long as he serves as State Secretary, thus giving rise to the suspension of the post of Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. On 6 February, I was informed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members that the European Union Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, as a candidate for President [l.e.], proposed a proposal for a decision to the Council of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I ask if a representative of the proposer would like a word. He doesn't want to. Procedurally, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u2	Dear President! I'm guessing there's probably been a mix-up. You said that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group informed you that it was proposing a candidate for president of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The President is Mr Roman Jakič, so he is probably the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u3	Yes, I'm sorry. I told the vice president in the introduction. This is the Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I apologize to everyone, especially Mr Roman Jakić, President. As it is said, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs proposes to Mr Council of Likar, and such a proposal shall also be put to the vote. One more honest apology. Let's go to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposal for the election of a candidate to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour Court in Koper, the External Section in Novi Gorica. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for election to a judicial function, namely to the Court of Justice of the District Court at the Court of Justice in Koper, the External Section in Novi Gorica. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the commission? He doesn't want to. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? You don't want to. I conclude by presenting my views. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I note that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a decision. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Mojce Fajdig to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour Court in Koper, the External Section in Nova Gorica. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine and assess the actual situation with regard to the appearance and functioning of extremist groups and movements in the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the commission? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views? You don't want to. There will be a debate between Members and Members. No one wants to discuss it, so I am closing the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the commission? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views? You don't want to. I am opening a debate between Members and Members. No one wants to discuss it, so I am closing the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR THE THIRD DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE ORGANISATION LAW AND OF THE POLICE IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much. As is known, the National Assembly held a second reading of the proposal of this Act at its 10th regular meeting on 30 January this year. The National Assembly has adopted some important amendments to Article 74 concerning the increased workload during the special burden period, Article 79a, which has made an important step forward in police operations in areas where indigenous national communities live, Article 83, which refers to injuries or time considered to be injury at work, is the time of transport to work, and some others, in particular the amendment to Article 79a, which relates to the implementation of Article 79 as a consequence. It's about learning languages. It must be said that both police laws, both those adopted at the last meeting and those before us today, are inseparably linked. Both laws somehow inherit a basic law or basic law on police. The adoption of one law without the adoption of another law would constitute a rather unsustainable legal situation. She'd be about the same as if she had a criminal code, and we wouldn't have the Criminal Procedure Act. I would therefore like to thank the leadership of the National Assembly, or his College, which has included this law in order for both to enter into force at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Vasle on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u6	Good day and a nice hello to you all! The Law on Organising and Working in the Police in Nova Slovenije will also be supported by the following solutions supported by this law. The law defines the relationship between the Ministry of the Interior and the police more clearly. The National Investigation Office will remain independent and, following this proposal, will be linked to the unit of the General Police Administration responsible for the suppression of crime. The law also sets out more clearly the powers required by the officers who supervise the work of the police. The law also allows for further development of the police and its research activities. The law thus provides for the adoption of a long-term development programme for the smooth functioning of the police, which will enable its sustainable development. It defines human resources policy in the police, equipment, etc. The law also lays the foundations for the national forensic laboratory, which is the acquisition for Slovenia. More emphasis will also be placed on the training and training of police officers. Thirdly, the law allows for the decentralisation of the police. This law will allow for greater autonomy and autonomy of police administrations, while at the same time the police will be better connected with Slovenian municipalities. This means, for example, that the local police station will be able to request reports on the safety and other situation in the congregation. The law also lays the groundwork for police work to be more focused on security problems specific to individual areas. In New Slovenia, we believe that the law before us can provide the police with a good basis for its development and legal and effective work, and we will continue to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! Within our parliamentary group, we will support the law on the organisation and work of the police because we believe that the current situation is being systematically upgraded. We are particularly pleased that this law also addresses the issue of bilingual police operations in the national mixed area. I can reiterate that we have reached the proposed text on the basis of a comprehensive consensus of all the factors that are decisive in this context, from the Ministry of the Interior to the national communities and from the Police Union to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Let me also point out that the provision in this law is important in particular from this point of view that the Minister designates jobs where, from now on, the knowledge of the Italian and Hungarian languages and the level of this knowledge will be required on the basis of the consent of the competent organisation, the national community. Furthermore, it is clear that, since the adoption of this Act, jobs can only be occupied in accordance with the provisions of this Act. The law also regulates the issue of those who are already in a working relationship and set a time limit within which they must provide the necessary knowledge to control both languages of the national communities. Finally, let me say what is also a positive contribution of this law from the point of view of the national communities, that the police also provide training to their police officers or employees, in order to be able to master either Hungarian or Italian at the appropriate level. Let me stress once again that, due to the integrity of systemic resolution, we will be happy to support the law in order to complement this issue, which is also addressed from a national point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u10	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members! The proposal for a law on organisation and police work still contains the same concerns of Positive Slovenia, since none of our proposals, which would at least partially address these concerns, were unfortunately not supported and adopted. The problem and concerns remain the same, if I mention only the most important. For the first time, the designations and discharges of the Director-General of the Police and the Director of the National Investigation Office, which are carried out under the Law on Public Servants, 47th, 48th, and 49th, before 50th, Article of the bill. We are advocates of an autonomous professional commission, which is a kind of anti-political recruitment protector and has been introduced into the process of election of the Director-General of Police by a new G Law on Police. The advantage of this Commission is, in our opinion, mainly that the Minister can refuse, which means that the Minister cannot propose it to the government and must find an alternative. A change in the manner in which the Director-General of Police is appointed, as proposed by law, represents a major step backwards in ensuring the independence of the operational functioning of the police. This allows the Minister of the Interior to be completely free of time with regard to the appointment of the Director-General of the Police. Even worse, the Director-General of Police no longer has any protection against the Minister's will, nor when it comes to his dismissal. With the amendment, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has proposed to maintain the existing regime, but our proposal has not been adopted. Second, the degradation of the National Investigation Office. He'll be a regular sector in the crime department. As a starting point, the draft law takes into account the fact that the National Investigation Office of the Interior is an organisational unit of the Directorate of the Criminal Police of the General Police, specialised in the handling of individual crimes and in the organisational sense part of the Directorate of Criminal Police. Thus, the National Investigation Office becomes only one of the internal organisational units of the Directorate of Criminal Police, although the analyses have undeniably shown that the existing organisation of detection and prosecution bodies, as well as their competence, working methodology, strategies and priorities, are not systematically appropriate to respond to new complex forms of crime. That the National Investigation Office is losing its operational autonomy by means of a new regulation is also shown through a provision on the manner in which the Director of the National Investigation Office is elected by the Director-General of the Police, who will be appointed and dissolved under the Public Servants Act, following legislation currently in force. The appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office shall also be subject to the same provisions as the appointment of the Director-General of Police, by means of a determination as to who will determine which investigations into the suspected offences will be undertaken by the National Investigation Office, namely no longer by the Director-General of the National Investigation Office, but by the Director-General of the Police with an internal act on a proposal from the Director. From now on, the National Investigation Office may also be subordinated to the politically appointed Director General of Police and consequently to the Minister. Our concerns regarding the suspension of the Autonomous Professional Commission in the appointment and resolution of the Director of the National Investigation Office were also given a presentation in practice yesterday and prove to be fully justified and absolutely nothing exaggerated. The Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia has also proposed in this part an amendment that would address our concerns, but here too our proposal has not been supported. Thirdly, the weakening of the provision on the recruitment of the so-called auxiliary police, paragraph 104, prior to paragraph 103 of the bill. The current Police Act provides, inter alia, for the recruitment of auxiliary police to replace the involvement of a large number of active police officers in carrying out large security risk tasks. Article 103 of the law on police organisation and work is very loose and provides for the recruitment of auxiliary police officers solely for the purpose of replacing the absence of a large number of police officers. Such a diction thus enables the recruitment of auxiliary police officers, for example, in the case of a police strike, which is very controversial in our view. Even if we remember the spring statement by the police and the minister of the threat that there are many people at the employment offices who would like to work for 600 euros. Such a loose conduct allows for the replacement of police officers who carry out legally defined forms of union struggle. Among other things, auxiliary police officers are, as a rule, not trained to carry out police duties on their own, but do so together with active police officers and are only helpful to them and act on the orders of an active police officer. Thus, by carrying out police tasks on our own by auxiliary police officers, we are causing a greater possibility of injury at work, and there is a greater likelihood of overstepping police powers. We are also wondering whether the Minister of the Interior may not be mocking some kind of parallel police. Nor has our proposal been adopted in this part. Given that no concerns of Positive Slovenia have been overturned during the legislative process, no proposal for a law has been adopted and the provisions of the law have consequently been more clearly written down, this bill, despite some good solutions, cannot be attached or supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u12	Dear Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues! The bill on organisation and police work is a twin law. Along with the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, it replaces the Police Act of 1998. Today's hearing is merely the result of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which allows a third of Members to extend the adoption of the law. For the two laws that had been drawn up since 2010, the opposition had only had a few concerns. The only slightly greater source of disagreement is the appointment of the Director-General of Police and the conditions for the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office. Both police unions have also sought solutions in the direction of organising the police to the best of their ability to carry out their duties. It is therefore right to adopt this law today, which brings important changes to the organisation and work of the police. In our opinion, the law responds to modern efforts to adapt the police to the changing social situation. The police always need to approach the needs of people and their security, so the police from a strictly hierarchical and centralised governing body want to be established as a modern police organisation. In view of the first presentation of the bill from 2010 onwards, with appropriate corrections to the texts of the articles we wanted to contradict the text of the original bill from the time when the applicants were written this: "All the police of the world are considered to be the same authorities because their regulation is typical hierarchical and sterilised." In the SDS Group, we believe that the implementation of the law in practice will show that the police, at least Slovenian, do not do so, but a hell of a living organization, where there is a very active interaction, both within the organisation itself and the interaction of the organisation with citizens and citizens. Allow me to devote the most time in my position to the content that has also interfered with the opposition. For democratic political systems, it is particularly important to have a clear delimitation of powers between the minister and the police, as well as a very clear and limited orientation and supervision of the minister over the police. In the SDS Group, we are aware that the Constitutional Court has also reached this substance by decision in 2003, and therefore we believe that the proposal for a law brings clear solutions, which have already been constitutionally verified. The restrictions applicable to the Ministry in the direction and control of the police are also important, especially when the prosecutor takes over the direction of the police. The Minister of Home Affairs already has certain powers under the Law on State Administration towards the body in its composition, and the draft law sets out more specifically the type of guidance that is considered to be guidance and how it is implemented. The powers necessary to carry out their tasks effectively are also laid down by the officers who supervise the work of the police. In our view, too, there is a clear way and extent of informing the Minister and reporting the police. There is a great interest in public decision-making in the area of the recruitment of key police personnel. In the previous mandate, under the Ministry of Minister Kresalova, a fairly unique system of appointment of the Director-General of the Police has been introduced with regard to general practice in public administration. The new law before us today abolishes this specialty and the appointment of the Director-General of Police is equivalent to the appointment of other Directors-General. When we appoint the Director-General of Police, we return to the European Comparative Designation method, which was in force in Slovenia until 2009, until the year when it was clearly like the continuation of a policy, which there are audio and video recordings, continued the principle of 'do not forget, I set you up, politics set you up'. Although this policy wanted to be attached as innocent, beautiful and smart, it was left to the effect that the legislation was such that the police did not have the authority and the possibility to sanction the driving of important officials by strips or lights on, even though it was not cases justifying such driving. Even in any rampage of a major mayor at a high speed along the highway, police have found powerlessly that there is no legal basis for action. In the SDS Group, we believe that such and similar excesses will be properly sanctioned in the future, because we believe that the functioning of the police will now be easier because their tasks and powers will be easier to understand through the way they work and organise them and other entities. The bill makes it clear that the Minister's powers do not apply to police procedures whose orientation is taken by the competent state prosecutor under the law governing criminal proceedings. The law goes on to say very nicely that, irrespective of the law governing criminal proceedings and the law governing cooperation between the police and the prosecution, the State Prosecutor took over the direction of police work in the pre-trial procedure or at the time when he was informed of the crime. At that time, the very involvement of the minister in the work of the police, which also ends clearly in accordance with the law, was mentioned very often. It is also very clear that the law mentions when a minister can administer control. It may designate a supervisor as well as other officials involved in this control. It also seems important to us that we know when the Director-General of Police informs the Minister of all events that are important for the safety of the lives of protected persons or facilities, when he must report to him on events in which several persons have lost their lives or suffered greater material damage, and on all other important events. Why am I talking about this? Because in the public eye it felt that in the previous term this story about information had sometimes taken place more on a family basis than on a professional level. A few more words about the establishment of the National Investigation Office. At the time of the establishment of the National Investigation Office, an unconventional mode of appointment and responsibility of the head of the National Investigation Office was also introduced, since the chairman was not hierarchically placed in the office, the powers of the Director General of Police and the Director of the Criminal Police. This law also normalises and Europeanises the situation of the National Investigation Office. In the SDS Group, we are aware that the number of uniformed police members has decreased in recent years, so it is right that we are looking for new solutions that allow more rational use of human and material resources. A solution that also allows for the relocation of other police and police personnel, including technical and professional public officials, to provide police support for the smooth functioning of police tasks. We therefore welcome a step in this direction in the proposal of the law. A few words more about strengthening decentralisation and independent police administrations. As we all know, the police are organised at three levels, at country, regional and local level. This organisation is determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Compared to the current regulation, the draft law places particular emphasis on the greater autonomy of police administrations and thus the decentralisation of police at the clear strategic points of the General Police Administration. In the previous term, a huge error was made, which is also evident on the ground. We also welcome the fact that police cooperation with the local community is being strengthened. As the debate has shown in the course of the adoption of this law, it is clear that the Government has prepared this law with great care to give careful consideration to the positive solutions and importance of this matter for the situation in society and the country. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, we assess that the solutions in this bill are positive and we will support the bill on organisation and work in the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! On 23 March 2012, the draft law was published on the website of the Ministry of the Interior without a specific public debate or a more extensive involvement of the interested professional public, explaining that the proposal for a law on police organisation and work had already been discussed at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly on 22 September 2011. However, we have seen differences in the scope and content of the Social Democrats, so we have requested a first reading of the law. The hearing was accompanied by the findings of the Police Union on the breach of the strike agreement, which recognised the Government's intention to circumvent the agreed obligations under the collective agreement. Since it was not possible to establish a degree of coordination between the Ministry of the Interior and the social partners for the second treatment of the labour force, nor was the amendment review prepared in time to deal with substantive issues and not procedural complications, we proposed a submission of the hearing. Despite the fact that there was a difference between the police unions in dealing with certain issues, it is nevertheless possible to say that coordination is greater than before the interruption of the second treatment on the labour force, but I will not go into those parts that have been the subject of coordination between the social partners. We have not supported the social democrats of the law at first reading, but we have announced that our possible support for the law depends on how some of the unacceptable provisions of the law will change during the examination. Let me mention some of the concerns that we have mentioned. It is the appointment of the Director-General of the Police, the conditions and procedure and the early discharge, the special commission in the appointment process, the appointment of the Acting Director-General of the Police, the conditions for the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office and some others. If I add to this some things that concern the relationship between the Minister of the Interior and the Director-General of Police in particular, then I would like to draw particular attention to the amendment to Article 12 of the Act, which we have justified by the fact that the information provided by the Director-General of the Police should not jeopardise the functioning and procedures of the police. We have encountered misunderstandings and deaf ears and the matter has remained the way it is, perhaps only with the change that the article has experienced on the Committee on Home Affairs. It also concerns the relationship or decisions of the Minister, also our proposed amendment to the 80th, now 81st, article of the law, where we have proposed the deletion of the second paragraph, because this paragraph is inconsistent with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, where the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is the one who decides which cities concern occupational retirement. That I wouldn't just talk about weaknesses. Initially, we had a number of concerns about the arrangements for entry conditions for the performance of a police officer in areas where, after the stoppage of the official languages, there are two languages. When we have received assurances from both Members of the National Communities that the text currently proposed in Article 80 is appropriate, we claim that this is an acceptable solution for us. I'd like to point out one more thing. At a time when there is a lot of talk about saving on the one hand and when the public cannot accept that we have slightly improved our budgets, but that civil society does not have this happiness – I note the amendment to Article 38, which has not been adopted, has regulated the status, functioning and conditions for the operation of veteran and other housing organisations. While we are already discussing what the proposal was like in the previous mandate and what it was like, the previous mandate stated here that the government also provides funds for the operation of veteran organisations. The proposal by the amendment of Positive Slovenia, however, made the expectation of financial support stronger and could not be implemented. I have only mentioned some concerns about the law on police organisation and work, which do not mean that this law has been improved enough to be supported by the Social Democrats in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u16	Honourable Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, Director, Colleagues and Colleagues! Slovenian police are the organ of sui generis, the organ of a special type and is the largest authority of the state administration in the Republic of Slovenia. Its specific organisational and functional status is a situation that requires the search for optimal forms of internal organisation and regulation of labour relations. The proposal for a law on police organisation and work replaces and builds on the existing Police Act, namely the part relating to the normative basis for modern police organisation, its management and direction, and the clear delimitation of powers between the Ministry of the Interior and the police, the regulation of specific labour conditions in the police, the status and protection of police officers, training and education. The bill restores the greater role of local communities in prioritizing the preparation of the annual plan, the work of the police station and reporting to the police station commander on the security situation in the police station area. This will certainly contribute to greater police cooperation with the local community, thereby improving public security and reducing fear of crime and consequently improving the effectiveness of police work. At the same time, the clear delimitation of powers between the local community and the police remains. It is also important that the law makes it possible to differentiate the different jobs of police work. Thus, within five years of the law being enacted, the Ministry will systemize those jobs, particularly the demanding jobs of operative officers requiring higher vocational training. This will pave the way for the most exposed key and capable operatives to be better ranked and better paid. This is a step towards greater expertise in the performance of the most demanding operational tasks and the provision of security services at local level. There is no change in the appointment and discharge of police station commanders and police chiefs. He examines suitable candidates for the Director-General of Police, as in all other cases of public administration recruitment, the Official Council. Any other arrangement for the appointment of the Director-General of Police would constitute an unjustified departure from the system, as is the case with all the highest public officials. The heads of other bodies in the system shall be appointed and selected in a substantially simpler manner. The National Investigation Office shall maintain the position and specific position within the police by making the NPU circuit clearer or more specific. The appointment of the Director of the NPU is comparable to the appointment of the Director of Police. Any other solution would be more systematic. The Head of the Crime Service and the Head of the Uniform Police are appointed and resolved by a much simpler procedure and their scope of work and responsibility are significantly greater. The large added value of the proposed law is also the regulation of bilingual police operations in the areas of national communities, which has not been adequately regulated so far. There will be a new system of jobs where knowledge of the language of nationality is a prerequisite for employment and not vice versa. The bill is largely inter-sectorally coordinated, and especially for two years, it has also been coordinated with the public concerned, the interior and the outside. The material was published for the first time on 13 December 2010. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Jasmina Opec on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! There is still a third reading of the draft law on police organisation and work, which together with last week's adopted Law on Police Tasks and Powers, represents a comprehensive overhaul of police operations, a police reform. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the solutions defined in the proposed legislative text, with a focus on the central objective of the proposal, this is to create conditions for the establishment of a modern police organisation, to improve its governance and guidance. The proposed law brings more professional, efficient and rational action and systematic development of the police. Research, education and training within the police are also strengthened, as this is crucial for its further development and quality cooperation with other educational and research institutions and similar bodies at home and abroad. An important part of the legislative change is also in strengthening the decentralisation and independence of police administrations, in particular the targeting of security issues specific to the area of each police administration, which must be in line with the strategic courts of the General Police Administration. The focus on greater decentralisation is defined by a greater link between the police and local communities, as direct and partnership between the police and citizens is the best guarantee for greater confidence in the work of the police and for improving its reputation. In the field of labour relations, the proposed law derogates slightly from certain provisions of the Public Servants Act, which we find acceptable because of the specificity of the police profession and the comparability with regulation in certain other sectoral laws, such as the Defence Act or the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Nevertheless, we estimate that the talks between the competent ministry and the representative trade unions have brought a lot of good solutions, which have improved the text of the law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore assess that the proposed changes represent an optimal organisation of the police, which will be able to perform its function more effectively and more responsiblely, for the greater benefit and security of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. With the amendments adopted, the text of the bill on organisation and work in the police has further improved, and we will also unanimously support it in our parliamentary group in the third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Mr Director, colleagues and colleagues! We have a third consideration of the draft law on police organisation and work. Let me briefly list just a few major solutions: a precise definition of the relationship between the ministry and the police and the identification of the tasks performed by the Ministry in relation to the police; a more detailed definition of the direction and supervision of the Ministry of Police, the powers of the supervisors of the service which oversees the work of the police; strengthening the decentralisation and autonomy and autonomy of police administrations; enhanced partnership in providing security through the establishment of councils, commissions and other agreed forms of partnership at the local level; special arrangements of labour relations that enable the smooth implementation of the operational tasks of the police; carrying out tasks in specific working conditions; overtime; temporary work; and special emphasis and care for employees, such as legal assistance to police officers; protection in the event of threats to staff; and upgrading of the education system; and the transition to a higher level of education for the performance of police duties; and for the majority of police posts. The most debates and divergent views on the issue of the relationship between the Minister and the Director-General of the Police have been discussed so far. Above all, the debate focused on what it could and must be informed by the Minister, why he was responsible and in which cases the Director-General of Police should inform the Minister. The fact is, the Minister cannot be informed of everything, as this would be too much information, but the most important events must certainly be informed. According to our assessment, he must by no means be informed of events which could in any way interfere with or affect the professional work of the police. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that or every Director-General will be able to overestimate when and what to inform the Minister without acting politically controversially and in particular unprofessionally. In the DeSUS Group, we will also support the draft law on organisation and police work in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The text is by Mr Franz Jurša, prepare for Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister, co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the debate that we have already held at the home labour body, including in the second reading in the National Assembly, at the previous meeting, we have, I think, adjusted well the proposal that is acceptable to all parties, to the Minister and also to the police themselves. In particular, I would like to remind you that at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we have also adopted an amendment prepared by the Positive Slovenia following the entry into force of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which comes from 1. 1. 2014 removes the possibility that a business trip will also be considered if there is an injury at work. This was then accepted by this amendment, and this area has also been specially regulated. In this way, we have admitted to the police in some way their hard work, especially in the event of extraordinary events. Here I am not only referring to events that have taken place in our markets and streets recently, but also to events that take place during major sports events, especially those that are security-risk events. In recent discussions, there has also been a great deal of debate about when and what the Director of Police needs to inform the Minister so that the Minister does not get too involved in the operational work of the police. It was found here that it is important for the Minister to be aware of the event when it comes to the security of the State or protected persons, including facilities, and to be aware of events in which several persons lost their lives, where there was greater material damage and events in which one or more persons lost their lives in the performance of police duties. Also with events that are more responsive to the public. In view of all that we have discussed in previous cases, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I find that I have a lot of checked out, and I ask if Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, who has just entered the hall, wants to speak. You don't want to? Then it's up to Mr. Happy Meh, get ready for the mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! At least five things should be said in dealing with this law, at least on my part. First of all, it is necessary to provide a suitable legal basis for police officers in order to be able to do what is normal and good and to be adequately protected. That's why I think the police work needs to be given all the support and recognition to the police. It seems necessary and important to me that the police are well-protected, that we have good solutions, that the police are well-connected with local communities and that the veteran organisations in any way mean the history of the police and are what the police can be proud of. As the first item I would like to discuss today in particular. It is also a matter of informing the Minister and the Director-General or the Director-General, who must inform the Minister. The issue is that the police should be independent and independent and that there should not be a link that could harm the independence and independence of the police. This is what we, ladies and gentlemen, are obliged to ensure in the National Assembly or in the legislative process. That's why I don't think that's a good thing, and it's not really solved. Police and policy should not be linked in any way. We should put a very clear boundary between the profession and what is going on, especially against the general investigative authorities, where we should have the assurance that the Minister, except for guidance, cannot and must not influence the way the police work. There's another question I'd like to ask you in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, can the position and opposition be agreed upon at all? Can we find a solution when, for example, we propose a solution that is better or different or that we cannot? I guess we can't. Even though we all think very well and would like to prepare solutions to help us make our work easier. That's what I'd like to stress. Today's hearing, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is not here, but I believe he will hear it, I understand it as provocation. I know that this is the third treatment and that it must be accepted because we have already had two hearings and we have not accepted it at the last reading. I think it's a provocation because tomorrow before the National Assembly, people will protest the way we do our work. They will not only protest against Janez Janša, they will also protest against us in this national assembly, against Members and Members, against the policy given by the weaker adjective, or speak ill of our work. Also because today we are adopting a law that will not affect the work of the police tomorrow and will not affect anything that will happen tomorrow. That's a bad message. We should therefore have a lot of tact when putting an extraordinary session on the agenda. Even next week, there will be extraordinary meetings where we can deal with such a law and perhaps there are no reasons why people will be able to say tomorrow that the parliamentarians adopted the law yesterday, we are protesting today and no one is listening to us, nobody is listening to us. They should tell me in the National Assembly, Members and Members, to listen carefully, and to place them carefully in the laws we adopt. I think there are many good solutions to this marriage. Unfortunately, because of what some debaters have said today, particularly Ambassador Majda Potrat, I cannot support the law that is in the third reading today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare Dr. Ljubica Jelusič
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens and citizens, Mr Minister, Secretary of State and others present! When I was preparing for today's debate, I gave the address Less Country for a better future. Coincidence wanted my debate to be very well connected to my colleague Happy Meha. I don't see a problem in the content of the law. We need legislation that the police can work through. If I rely on one dilemma, I don't see the problem with the Minister being the one who chooses the Director General of Police. That seems like a good solution to me. My controversy or my debate will go in the direction of the police environment and the environment in which we live. We live in strange times. The end of the world announced for December, although we have been happily surviving, now it seems increasingly that the end of the world is only coming over Slovenia. Every day new affairs, new tensions, new strains. I recently received the speech of Moshe Pijada at the first AVNO meeting in Bihac on November 29, 1942, which was censored after the war. This speech puts the situation and today's debate into a whole new light. I quote: "A farmer who has land and livestock, a worker who receives wages, is worthless to us. We have to make them homeless, poor thing. Blessings, order and peace are our mortal enemies. It is necessary to create so many poor people that they are mostly in the country. Apparently, we've started using the old tactics again, because the moves we're making indicate this. As servants of the Jernei, we are ready to burn the house, but we should be aware that we will burn ourselves in it." I would like to point out that these are not my words. These are the words of the 1942 Moshe Pijada. Last time I read the thought of Miha Mazzini, who is a good diagnosis of our situation: "We are a poor contact with reality is a great handicap for Slovenia and we Slovenians are desperate about this." True, a lot of Slovenians are unable to face reality. After our independence, we were full of optimism, everyone praised us, and we were a model for other countries of the former Eastern bloc. That's what put us to sleep. While others were working, catching up with us, and now they were ahead of us, we were getting more and more into our dreams and losing touch with reality. In our imaginary world, we are all good, beautiful, capable, in short, the world. Everyone would have an average salary, preferably in public service, a month and a half a year, at least another month of paid hospital, etc. We're acting like teenagers. A lot of rights and no responsibility. As long as this dream could be created by the sale of property created by our mothers and fathers and credits, it was possible, now that the bills are coming and the money is gone, and the gambling is killing each other. As for dreamers, we're looking for guilt everywhere, just not on our own. I wonder if we Slovenians are even capable of having our own country. I believe there will be more security in this country if we begin to create. Instead of taking on all the weights of what laws we will have, police, constitutional change, amendment of referendum legislation and what else, let us start at extraordinary sessions – it is good to have them every week – to deal with how to create more, and there will be no threat to demonstrations. This is also one of the so-called police legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, prepare yourself a mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister Dr. Gorenak, Mrs. Brezigar, Dr. Zaberl, colleagues and colleagues! I am very well aware that the current and future functioning of the police depends on the adoption of both laws, both the law on police powers, which has already been adopted and the law on police organisation and work. I also know that we could come up with very good common solutions, as my colleague Lucky has said, but these common solutions can only be achieved if we agree on the fundamentals. One of the fundamentals is how we put the police in our political system today in Slovenia. Do we think that this body is within the Ministry of the Interior with limited powers or do we think that it is an autonomous organisation of our country as a whole that cares for the internal security of all citizens and citizens or of all the inhabitants of this country? At a time when it is said that we wish or are pleased to have a clear delimitation of powers between the Minister and the Director-General of the Police – I think we can say that, but we need to ask ourselves at which point this clear distinction is made. Whether this clear distinction is at that point when the Director-General in the role of the Minister has acted or at that point, when it is clear that he is an autonomous professional with a high level of expertise who must decide on internal security issues in accordance with police expertise and not in accordance with political guidelines or at least not always in accordance with political guidelines. It is a matter of whether we decide between the professional autonomy of the police and the Director-General, or whether we think that both the police and the Director-General should be placed in one of the ministries and made subject only to that ministry. In the history of 22 years of our Slovenia, this relationship has been different. There were times when the police gained more autonomy and there were times when it was very limited in its powers. Social Democrats and myself are personally more at the side of the position that would give the police a higher degree of professional and professional autonomy. This is also related to the question, or most operationally, of how the selection of the Director-General is determined and what this Director-General reports to the responsible Minister. When it comes to the question of choice, I must say that when we met in the previous government the question of how to choose the Director-General of Police was asked whether to choose this top professional on the basis of the rules applicable to civil servants – as is now the case in this law – where the rules of choice of the highest public officials are followed, i.e. whether it is a high-level bureaucrat or a top-level professional. We believed that a parallel should be drawn to what is happening in the Slovenian Army when it comes to choosing the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. There is not a choice between those who are ambitious enough, no matter how professional and smart they are, and would like to become chiefs, but a choice between those who have advanced through the professional path to the highest possible positions, positions and titles. Among them, then, is the choice of one who will be a top professional. For the police, it was this question that was open – whether the government should choose between ambitious people of 15 or 10 or 30 years of work experience, or whether we are choosing among those top professionals who have reached the top of their careers on a professional path. We were more on the side of an arrangement that would allow for the choice of a top-notch professional. We have taken another step forward, which is not guaranteed by the Chief of Staff, which we considered necessary to establish an autonomous path, an expert autonomous commission to choose such a professional and also to care for his legitimacy and integrity at the beginning and also at the end of his career. As I say, the Chief of Staff has not yet been assured. At one more point, I would like to draw attention to history when it comes to this law and regulating the attitude of the police and the Ministry of the Interior towards veteran organisations. In history, we have already had a situation where a contract or cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the North Veteran Organisation was signed, but there was neither a contract nor a cooperation agreement between the North Veteran Organisation and the Ministry of Interior or the police. In the relationship between veteran organisations and also in the expectations of veteran police officers, this has aroused very different feelings, rather negative than positive. I think it is right for the Ministry of the Interior and the police to take care of their veterans with a positive, favourable feeling and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Minister Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would respond to the execution of Dr. Jelusic, with all due respect for the parliamentary and professor's career. What you're talking about simply doesn't hold, because if that were to hold it, then the situation is just like that. It's hard to talk about 22-year-old autonomy of a larger or smaller police force. The first Police Act was passed in 1998 and the police were established as a body in the composition in 2000, so that we can talk about the autonomy of a police organisation as an organ in the composition only since 2000, 12 years and not 22 years. Before that, it was melted, like the Ministry of Defense, with the Ministry. We didn't have one, the police didn't have a CEO until 2000. That's one thing. Second thing, the CEO's election. You gave an explanation as if you were defending this law, even though you were talking about the law that was passed during the previous term. In the previous term, the adoption of the law made it impossible, but seriously, I think, prevented a top police pyramid from reaching the top of the police pyramid. Take a good look at that article I was talking about the last time — I don't think you were — I was talking about it. For the first time in history, in the previous mandate, my predecessor, Mrs Kresalov, was open to recruitment even from outside. Look out, it was even open from the outside. The 1998 Act, which was in force until 2009, prevented outsourcing. However, the 2009 Act also brought out personnel. The only condition that was any connection with the police was that the candidate had to work in security organizations or justice, etc. He also opened the way to a top professional soldier, opening the way partly to judges, prosecutors, etc. That's what the previous law did. With this bill, I'm closing this road. The exclusive possibility of someone coming to the top of the police pyramid is only now placed and much harder placed. We can't take the army today or the Owl as something irrelevant in this country, you know that. If you look at the appointment of Chief of Staff, and if I recall correctly, you have taken advantage of this opportunity during your term of office, in fact, it is a chorus – the minister proposes, the government appoints, and it ends in two hours, as the government's meeting lasts. We have two such institutions that appoint their leaders in this way, while we place the Director-General of Police in the system of public servants. The appointment of public servants shall be made through a competitive commission, through this special commission. What happened before is true – we can sit outside this official debate and look at specific articles, because now there is no time for this – it allowed for outside recruitment. If you look at that article that was written, I think that the last paragraph of Article 5c, or č, if I'm not mistaken, has even said that if someone does not have the status of a police officer, it is automatically admitted to him on the date of his appointment. This is exactly the same as if someone came to the top of a military pyramid, to the post of Chief of Staff and would say, "Yes, on the day of appointment, he gets the status of a soldier." You know, that's what we've had, and that's what's going on until this law is passed. It is only by adopting this law that we return to 2009, and that situation is still much better than that of the Owl or the Army, as you said indirectly. I am very pleased that we are going back to professionalism in this area and we are not going back to what was going on in the previous term when there was no European country with anything like this. At that time I found – you also have a study here, in the National Assembly, in 2009 – Estonia, which had something similar, did not use it, but Portugal and Belgium, and they never used it, at least not in recent history. So I really think we're going in the exact direction that you were defending, even though I felt it was a criticism. I'm not going to respond to things that aren't right with the other editorials that you've been performing here. In Positive Slovenia, you said that you would not support the law for the reason that no of your proposals were taken into account. That's not true. Let's say the appointment of commanders, the appointment of directors of police administrations, which was not my proposal, but was Mrs Kresalova's proposal from 2010 or 2011, when this law was first discussed – I listened and we withdrew it from the bill, so it is not true because we supported the amendment of Positive Slovenia in the second reading, if you remember. I'm glad we supported him. It was an amendment that referred to the number of paths to work counted as injury at work, so we also supported your amendments. The Minister's communication by the Director-General was problematic by the SD. Once again, the article you attacked doesn't even talk about it. The Minister shall be informed by other articles and Article 12 shall speak of what he shall be informed of immediately. The perception that it could affect something is irrelevant because it cannot affect it because a safety event has already taken place and because it has already happened, you can’t influence it, so it’s really a pointless matter. As far as the conditions for the operation of veteran organisations are concerned, the article is written, the article is in there, it is quite open and allows this cooperation, but not the funding that has been reported to me, I think Mrs Potrata. Neither the preceding article nor the current state of funding provided for funding under the current law but referred to conditions of operation. So that's just the way things are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u31	The replica of Dr. Ljubica Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I thank you, Madam Minister, for some historical findings and remarks, but I would like to remind you that our government has not replaced the Chief of Staff, although we are not talking about this today, at one meeting within a few hours, but has also previously consulted with the President of the Republic and has chosen among the top professionals who had the right position and rank among the Major Generals. You've probably described the way in which your government's Chief of Staff was replaced, which, despite the fact that she had the generals and admirals at her disposal, chose a Brigadier. But let's put that aside now. This is more of a dilemma – and I do not advocate your decision regarding the choice of the general police officer, the Director-General of the Police – whether it is to register police officers as bureaucrats and go through the Official Council under the Law on Public Servants and to choose between those who are ambitious enough to apply, whether you as a minister or a government are able to choose between those who are the highest in the hierarchy according to their professional competences. If you thought our 2009 solution was so controversial, you could upgrade it by saying that no one outside the police could get into this system. It is not, however, that you have actually returned to the situation before 2009, when all the possible officers and officials from the system have been able to report to the CEOs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Ambrožich, prepare the mags. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! I will be very brief in explaining my voice. As I would like to believe in the well-intention of the drafter of the proposed law before us today, I also believe in the well-intention of the amendment's proponents, who, at least in my personal opinion, have not been sufficiently taken into account in order to find a possible concrete or realistic solution to the open issues related to the police's field of action, so I will abstain or not vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Župevc, prepare Mr. Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. To resolve the dilemma previously discussed by Mrs Ljubica Jelusic and Minister. For us, the dilemma is clear, or we have the answer to it, why we will not uphold the law. Because the Minister of the Interior, when appointing the Director-General of Police after this proposal, has completely free hands. That's the problem. This is a key issue of this law. When the Minister spoke earlier about the adoption of the amendments of Positive Slovenia in the second reading, those key points or concerns about this law have not been overturned or our proposals have not been taken into account, so today we will not support this law. If I say it again. The minister has already gone into the past by the year 2000. He said that since then we can talk about the autonomy of the police. We believe that the law before us today represents a step back in this autonomy of the police, precisely because of the reason I mentioned it at first. This is a change in the way the Director-General is appointed, since the Minister of the Interior, as I said, has completely free hands with regard to the appointment of the Director-General of Police. This is a key problem for us, one of the problems that we cannot support in this marriage. We've talked about the National Investigation Office. We believe that this regulation, in the law before us, degrades the National Investigation Office into the ordinary sector in the criminal police. That with the new arrangement he loses his operational autonomy, which we used to sing and defend in the past, there are two things that testify. The first was on how to elect the Director of the National Investigation Office, and secondly, who will determine which investigations into suspected crimes will be undertaken by the National Investigation Office. This seems very important to us. It will no longer be the Director of the National Investigation Office, but the Director-General of the Police with an internal act on a proposal from the Director. In recent years, we have talked a great deal about the National Investigation Office as some defender, an autonomous body dealing with the most serious crimes. Today, with this law, we are taking a big step back with these proposals. These two provisions, or these two things, seem crucial to us, which are why we cannot support this law. Before that, there was a discussion about this, about bureaucrats and professionals. We, too, believe that this is an area that claims that professionals and not bureaucrats are in managerial functions. Earlier, there had also been discussions on the definition of the Minister's information. What was then really corrected was what the minister could be informed of, but according to the current minister, who is happy to say publicly that various investigations are coming and how interesting it will be then to be happy, I must say that, given the dictions that have been corrected in the law, I no longer believe these words as dry gold, I will see. We are opposed to this law because of the solutions we consider to be a step back in the autonomy of the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u38	I'm afraid I'm going to respond to things that aren't right. Dr. Jelusich first. Not every cop can turn himself in, that's a fact. Not every police officer can report, but one who meets the conditions can report. Never in the past, but truly never, has anyone been chosen other than the highest, police saint, in the army is a general or I don't know what. Even in the future, I don't expect it to be any different. But if there was an amendment, because in theory today a police officer with college and work experience can really apply, on your part, who would say he should be a police councilman, I would be happy to support him. As far as Mrs. Župevc is concerned, the Minister has completely free hands. That's not true. We have precise conditions. Article 47 states that the General Labour Relations Act also lists them. If you count all these conditions, you will get one dozen or more. That's one thing. Second thing, the minister can't have his hands open. No minister, other than Mrs. Kresal's in the past, had them either. Since 2000, all the general directors of the police have had and have been appointed in some electoral process. Between 10 and 20 of them were reported to have usually dropped out on the Official Council. The minister doesn't have his hands open. The Minister may have free hands only among those whom the Special Commission recognises as suitable candidates. It's only there that he has free hands to propose to the government, not before. The claim that the Minister would have a free hand, as you spoke, is not true. You also talked about the independence of the NPU and what they do, what they don't do, what they have to do, what they have to do, what they don't. About a week ago, I received an analysis of the functioning of the National Investigation Office for a period of time. The supervisors who have done this analysis, who have examined the case before the case, will find you well aware that they are violating the law. They break the law because they don't take over things they should or should take over and they're resigned from the Ljubljana Police Administration, etc. The legal arrangement doesn't mean anything to you if it's mismanagement. For example, an example – investigations into the rental of the NPU, instead of dealing with it where the crime occurred, was dismissed by the Ljubljana Police Administration. So it doesn't mean anything to you if you write your marriage if you have bad leaders. A good leader, good control and good work ensure respect for something, whether it's a legal act or a submarital act, because now it's going to be a submarital act. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u39	Replica mags. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The minister basically didn't correct me, he didn't deny my position. I understand the current implementation as a possible or near exchange at the summit of the National Investigation Office. That's how I'll explain your explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I know that the Minister will prove that he is right and only he is right, but to draw attention to the distinction of the article which speaks of the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police. According to an article so highly criticised, according to the previous proposal, the term of office of the Police Director was limited to a period of 5 years with the possibility of a one-time reappointment. In the second paragraph, this Article also referred to the application of the Law on Public Servants. In the present law, it has only a provision to apply to the procedure the provisions of the law governing the system of public servants, which means that the Director-General of Police may be replaced within one year of the appointment of the new government without explanation. I'm not going to talk about other details, but if we were going to go to the section to read, what was set out in the requirements, under the terms of the Police Director, then we could not speak, as is said, because this is also stated in the third paragraph: "If the Director-General of Police does not have an examination for the exercise of police powers, it is based on professional experience..." Professional experience is probably not considered when it comes to the Director-General of the Police, the experience that a person acquires in selling shoes. So much for loving such flimsy cases. As far as veteran organisations are concerned. You're telling me it's not true what I said. The present article, which is Article 37, which deals with the conditions for the operation of veteran organisations, explicitly states that the Ministry does not have any obligation to operate organisations, whereas the previous law specifically stated in the previous proposal – in addition to that paragraph, that the way the police cooperate with the individual organisation referred to in the preceding paragraph is defined by an agreement – to provide free space and other working conditions within the scope of the option. Other working conditions may also be conditions with financial implications. So don't talk about it. You don't have it now. Now you have: "Police are working with veteran and other housing organisations, whose activities are important for the training and training of police officers and the promotion of the profession of police." Why do I think they're in a worse position? Because the Minister of Labour specifically said that all associations, including those acting in the public interest, would have to apply for funding for projects. I am very interested in how projects will be evaluated at the Ministry of Labour because we know how invitations can be formulated to give priority to someone who does not. In particular, it is now, say, not only to me, but also to you, Karitas has sent a publication on climate change, which has been financed by European funds and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But the publication that came out and the plate that was added is addressed as a plate that didactically help. One purely different ministry, which has nothing to do with education and education, gets the money, pulls out some kind of project. It's a good project to make no mistake. I just want to say how projects can be given to one another, but not to the other, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs owns a discretionary right and does not have responsibility for the content of the publication and the record. It's the one who made it. I'm just wondering how this funding is going to turn out. Now, Mr. Minister, a man can also explain Article 12, but you are always right and nothing can be told. See what the 12th section of the bill that the coalition will adopt today says, in the last part that is problematic. He says that the Minister is informed of events in which one or more persons have lost their lives in order to carry out the duties of the police — that is all right, and now this part — is coming — of other events in the police field that have or might have a greater response in the public. For us, it's a problem with that. Anything that might have a greater response in the public can be informed. If it is not added to the fact that it can be informed, if it is not some of the events in the police work area that could have an impact, they hinder the work of the police – this should be added. Now I've had enough, and now I'm going to tell you. I promised I wouldn't tell. What was the problem? Why did the former Director-General of Police resign for personal reasons? Because of the misunderstanding between the minister and him. This misunderstanding arose after the arrest of a well-known journalist, and the Minister for this arrest did not know. Such cases must not be notified by the Minister of Political Affairs, and the Director-General of Police is a professional function. Once again, our failure to support this law does not mean that we do not respect, appreciate and need the expertise of the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u44	Thank you. I know I can't tell you, but for the public's sake, not because I know I'm a failure. I repeat, as far as the arrest of a well-known journalist is concerned, I have been informed. Who said I wasn't informed? I say I've been informed, but after his capture, as always in all cases and nothing else. It doesn't make sense, Mrs. Potter, that you're going to warm these things up again because they look like rotten sour soup. That doesn't make any sense. And there's one more thing. Article 12 speaks of the Minister being informed immediately, one of the other articles, read it first and speak of what he is informed of. The Constitutional Decision is also clear in this area, but only read it and then everything is clear. The expertise you have discussed and the appointment of the Director-General by system, which is still in force at this time, relate to the work outside the police. Logically, you have to read the law, and you will see it. As far as veteran organisations are concerned, it is also necessary to know that the Ministry of Labour has introduced changes. I strongly support these changes because the old system was clear. According to the criteria that I would rather not mention, they allocated funds to those who were politically close to them, so today you have some veteran organisations in the Slovenian space that have rooms, have equipment and have many employed people. These employed people are financed by the state. Then at a famous monument, we see them screaming across the country. However, you have veteran organisations that do not receive anything, and it is therefore right for all to apply in turn and that the state is funding projects, not employees in such veteran organisations. It's only fair and only logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I would also start my debate, which will not be long, with the words of the Minister. Even sometimes, not only in this process, but also, I feel like a broken record. In this process, I think I have been saying the same things for the fourth time, and here a question is asked, especially to us who are new to Parliament, what is the meaning of these multi-phase procedures if the Government does not listen to a single policy issue. In this extensive system law, which has been passed for a long time in the government procedure, the opposition has really warned of only three, four of the problematic issues for us. In the first phase, we went into general treatment, then in the second phase with the amendment, and in the third phase, we briefly blocked the law. In 14 days, we have the law again in exactly the same form, and we sound exactly the same, and we know that nothing will change. What the opposition wanted, there is no systemicly different solution, as the Government had imagined, to undermine the system of the entire law, to destroy your efforts to improve the work of the police or anything like that. No, no, no. All we want is for a more transparent system to regulate the appointment and discharge of two important officials, and we want to make it clear in informing the minister that he can be informed, for example, after the operational activities have been completed. The minister said, "It's not true I didn't know about the arrest of a journalist. I knew it, but I found out after that." Obviously this is a problem because we are now adopting a law that will allow you to know in time, or how?Oh, my God! How else can this person understand?Oh, my God! Why is it a problem for anyone in this country that the law specifically determines that the Minister is informed of important events, but in a way that he cannot fall into the operational activities of the police? I really don't get it. The other two things have already been mentioned several times by the Director of Police and the Director of the NPU. All we want is to stay on the previous higher standard of appointment and not change things back every time the government changes, including the appointment of top officials in individual bodies. The previous standard was higher, there was this non-professional committee that gave an opinion. Why is this a problem for anyone if it has pure and good intentions? Especially if we all know that it is very important for the independence of the Police Director that this has professional autonomy and that it is not nice to be able to resolve it quickly. We want a policy to be established in this country that individuals who may not be entirely friends or not from the same party must coexist. This then allows these brakes and balances and controls at all levels. So, as it is said, I regret that the Government has not listened to our repeated arguments at three non-systemic points on three points that would increase predictability, transparency in the functioning of the system and increase the control system within these bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I note that this is a comprehensive list of reported debaters. That is why I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. I ask, does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? He doesn't want to. In your own name? Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I forgot to say the important thing before. I'm not the only one who thinks that. I will vote for the law, there is no dilemma. A lot of people think that. You know why? Mr Andrej Golob, editor-in-chief of the magazine Farmer, wrote what I took. I've quoted some things directly, or I've copied them directly, and now I'm going to say it. It's interesting how many people think about starting to create. I wonder if we Slovenians are really so highly educated or if we just have formal education full. Why doesn't anything change if so many people know? I'll vote in favour. But I was obliged to provide a source, because around the sources where someone copied something, there were a lot of crop rotations, and I really forgot before, even though at the end I wrote that I had to name the source. I'm glad it's not mine. I've copied most of the stuff. This means that people know what needs to be done, that they need to start creating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to explain their vote anymore, so we are moving on to a vote on the law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 45 votes against 32. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 27th extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Thank you very much.
