ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Please take your seats and listen to the course of the sitting. Thank you. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members of Parliament: Mr. Samo Bevk [[from 16:00 on]] , Dr Vinko Gorenak, who is currently among us, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Aloj Potočnik and Mr Brane Golubovic. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 6 December 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the operation of the voting devices. Can we vote on the agenda? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it was announced to the Prime Minister that the function of the Minister of Health instead of Tomáž Gantar would be carried out by Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs. The President of the Magnificent Government. On 6 December 2013, Alenka Bratušek informed the National Assembly that he would be acting as Minister of Health instead of Tomaž Gantar, who had resigned from his post as Minister of State, Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Foreign Affairs. You have received a notice from the President of the Government. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has been informed that the Minister of Health, instead of Tomaž Gantar, who has been suspended as Minister for his resignation, will serve temporarily as Minister of Health, Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the agenda, this is an announcement from the Prime Minister of the Government that the function of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology will be to replace the Mags. Dr. Urosh Couffer, Minister for Finance, used to do the stairs. The President of the Magnificent Government. On 6 December 2013, Alenka Bratušek informed the National Assembly that he would serve as Minister for Economic Development and Technology instead of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik, who resigned from this function, was temporarily performed by Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance. You have received a notice from the President of the Government. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has been informed that the role of Minister for Economic Development and Technology will be replaced by mags. Stanka Stepišnik, who was suspended as Minister for his resignation, was temporarily served by Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance. In view of this, the National Assembly also notes, for the first time, that in accordance with Article 14 of the Magi Law. Mr Stanko Stepišnik resumes his duties as Member of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology as of today. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, as of today, Mr Peter Oder, acting in place of the Magi, has ceased to be a Member. Stanka Stepišnik at the time he served as minister. Allow me, my dear colleagues, to thank Peter Odr for his work in the National Assembly, mag. And I invite Stanka Stepišnik to join us in the parliamentary dishes. I hereby conclude this agenda item. May I have your attention, please? I ask the competent authority to arrange everything necessary for the drafting of the voting system, so in 30 minutes I am adjourning the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, which will be held at 13.40 p.m. My colleagues and colleagues would like you to leave the hall at this time so that the services can prepare everything they need on the voting machines. This is a matter that is necessary for the replacement of Members. Thank you for your attention and for seeing me in half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's get back to work. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, the proposal recommended the issue of government governance. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has decided to submit a request for an extraordinary meeting on the governance of state assets and has made recommendations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the state of government is worrying. We know that the Slovenian State Holding Act is in force, but the government of Alenka Bratušek and the Ministry of Finance do not respect it. The Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 28 September. It started only on 28 December 2012, as after the adoption of the Act, the Council of State was given a postponement veto, and on 30 October 2012, the Group of 30 Members and Members, with first signed by Janie Möderndorfer, submitted an application for a legislative referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act. The National Assembly then forwarded a decision to the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether, by deferring the application of the Act on the Slovenian State Holding Act or by rejecting it at the referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. This Decision was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 6 November 2012. On 17 December, the Council decided that, by suspending the application and rejecting the Slovenian State Holding Act, there would be anti-constitutional consequences at the referendum. The main purpose of the Slovenian State Holding Act is to manage the investments of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to achieving stable ownership, more efficient management and higher profitability of state-owned enterprises. In accordance with Article 32 of the Slovenian State Holding Act of February this year, the Government of Janez Janša submitted to the National Assembly for adoption the Investment Management Guidelines and the Decision on Consent to Classification of Investments. Both acts were rejected by the current coalition on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy or at a meeting of the National Assembly. With this, this coalition has taken great responsibility and has pushed the management of Slovenian state property 10 steps back. By doing so, the current coalition also prevented the Slovenian State holding company from coming to life. The Government of Alenka Bratušek does not respect Article 40 of the Slovenian National Holding Act, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should propose candidates for members of the Supervisory Board within one month of the entry into force of the Act to the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also longer than 8 months behind the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act. In non-compliance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the Ministry of Finance allow and expose the risk that privatisation takes place in an ad hoc manner, without criteria, without methodology, and the management of state property can take place in a transparent manner. It is worrying that the authorities of state-owned enterprises are being set up with political personnel, where personal, partial interests are at the forefront. In the Slovenian Indemnity Society, a shareholder company which has taken over the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia through the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the order shall be waived both in the supervisory council and in the company administration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that, due to the non-compliance with the current Law on Slovenian State Holding and Political Personnel, there is a high risk that the privatisation of state property will be compromised and that the privatisation of state property will take place in a non-transparent manner, which could lead to further large locations of state property. Days are all the conditions for stealing the century, which was discussed at the beginning of the year by the then Head of the Social Democrats' Group and the current President of the National Assembly, Mr Janko Weber. Conscientious creation of conditions for non-transparent governance and privatisation is in fact a major betrayal of the country. We would also point out that, with regard to the sales proposal submitted by the government of Alenka Bratušek at the beginning of the summer to the National Assembly, even the president of the Social Democrats, Dr Igor Lukšič, said cynically that such a proposal was worse than the classification and proposal submitted by the government of Janez Janša to the National Assembly. Instead of implementing the provisions of the current Slovenian State Holding Act, the Ministry of Finance published a new proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act at the beginning of September after 4 months of the work of the Government of Alenka Bratušek on its website. This law was also sent by the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly a day ago, to which the President of the National Assembly rejected it because of its shortcomings, as demonstrated by the new flag of the government of Alenka Bratušek, and it should be pointed out that the Slovenian Democratic Party was already a party to the budget in early September, when this law was first made public, pointed out that the proposed law would have financial implications for the budget. We have also drawn attention to all of this to the Minister of Finance, who has presented this law to us. Despite all of this, this government's slump has reoccurred, and now the question is what are the actual intentions of the coalition by managing state property or by continuing privatisation. In recent days we have witnessed that the government of Alenka Bratušek is actively going abroad – Düsseldorf, Milan, Paris, Moscow – where it promotes Slovenia with the privatisation of companies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned because we believe that this government is likely to offer the entire property, despite the fact that the management of state property is at a given time without classification, without a clear strategy and without the consent of the National Assembly. We would like to point out that when the government of Janez Janša proposed that only one investment, namely Telekom, should be launched, there was shouting and screaming. We've heard the words of treason, of the end of the century. What about today, a respected coalition? We are convinced that this coalition is double criteria and double principles. It should be recalled that the new law does not provide for any member of the opposition in the supervisory council and that the government of Alenka Bratušek has fully subordinated the administration of state property. We believe that it is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to manage state property, but privatisation is in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Capital Society. It should be pointed out that one of the conditions for withdrawing signatures from Positive Slovenia under the government's current tactic, Alenka Bratušek, was that the law is changing and that the opposition has three members in the supervisory council. Today, the government has decided that the opposition will have none. The original law in force now stipulates that the opposition has one member in the supervisory council. We also estimate that without transferring ownership of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia to the Slovenian State holding company, financial stability and capital adequacy of the Slovenian State holding company are at great stake. Without the transfer of investments now owned by the Republic of Slovenia, it will be difficult to talk about the management of state property. We will be able to talk about the management of state property, and this also raises the question whether this is in line with the OECD guidelines. In the SDS Group, we would also like to point out the inadequacy and double criteria in the drafting of the amendment to the Act. The current coalition parties did not invite the opposition to prepare this law, and during the government of Janez Janša a special working group was set up in which all parliamentary parties participated with their political and professional colleagues. The proposed law is poorly written. Less important matters in the law are out of order, more important matters are under-ruled. In the SDS Group, we also see the biggest flaw in the new bill proposal in playing with the Capital Society. The capital company became the subject of the toy and the sandstone of coalition parties. We will absolutely demand in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law still provides that either the holding company or the Capital Society will have a payment obligation of at least 50 million per year to manage pensions. We are convinced that it is important for the sustainability and stability of the pension allowance to be passed on to the law also by the provision in the current law, which provides that 10% of the purchases from the sale of SDH's assets will be transferred to the pension register. It is also worrisome how the current bill provides for the transfer of the share of the Insurance Company Triglav with the SPIZ to the SDH. In such a mode of transfer, we do not exclude that there is a high risk that the pension box will be damaged. It also raises the question whether the proposed law contains all the fuses so that there will be no headless sales, because there are no defined criteria, there is no specific methodology and there are no conditions for what will be done with the purchases we will receive from privatisation. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that Slovenia can no longer play with privatisation. I think that Slovenia has become a very non-creditable partner in 2009 and 2011. We offered companies, but at the same time we kept a fig in our pocket, especially under the tactics of the government of Borut Pahor. Is this scenario going to happen again now? The government offers all assets in Düsseldorf, Paris, Moscow, Milan without the consent of the National Assembly. Respectable coalition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not imagine what a cry and shout the current coalition would be if the government of Janez Janša could afford it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we call on the coalition, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the Ministry of Finance to take the management of state property as seriously as possible, to respect the law in force and to submit to the National Assembly a classification and strategy for the management of state property. Unfortunately, there was no hearing on the Finance Board yesterday. The coalition has rejected our repeated recommendations. The management of state property is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the state property is not owned by this government. This government is doing everything to privatize this state property and to manage it as they want. We have always supported privatisation procedures in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but provided that privatisation takes place in a transparent manner and that the National Assembly gives its consent and determines which companies are strategic and which companies are for sale. We are confident that today's debate will be able to discover more. Once again, we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government of Alenka Bratušek, and the Ministry of Finance to follow the recommendations proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u4	Thank you for the supplementary explanation given. The proposal for a recommendation is at the 77th urgent session of 10. 12. 2013 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u5	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 77th urgent meeting, on 10. 12. as a parent working body, considered the Proposal for a Recommendation on the Management of State Property, EPA 1625 –VI submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank. We've received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of KD d.d., D. S.U. d. o., Blue insurance companies d. d., Elesa d. o. o., Soda d. o. o., Borzna d. o. o. First of all, he gave an introductory explanation by the representative of the proponents Marko Pogačnik, who drew attention to the non-compliance of the Slovenian State Holding Act with the non-transparent management and sale of state property and to the problematic solution of the composition of the supervisory board provided for in the new proposal for the SDH Act. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said that the Government was transparent in terms of the management of state assets and that it was allowed to do so by the transitional and final provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, in particular Article 38. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the comments were reflected in a written opinion. In the debate, members of opposition groups pointed out that the use of transitional and final provisions was not justified by the fact that the new classification and guidelines for capital investment management had not yet been introduced. Members of the coalition said that the current Act on Slovenian State Holding had not been fully implemented but that the transitional and final provisions of this Act were appropriately applied. They considered the proposed recommendation to be materially unnecessary, since the new law was already being submitted to the National Assembly and expressed their expectations about the preparation of a capital investment management strategy, classification and guidelines. Furthermore, the representative of the Court presented the way in which the Court worked in the privatisation process and also said that the transitional provisions of the current law had been going on for too long. He said that the objective of management was to ensure that 15 companies in the sales list were sold as best as possible, thereby gaining or retaining the confidence of the bidders. After discussion, the Committee voted on all parts of the draft act in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not adopt it. Since the proposal for a recommendation on the home body was not adopted, on the basis of the interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in conjunction with the provisions governing the treatment on the home working body, the Rules of Procedure Commission of 9 February 2009 has concluded its consideration of the draft act on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u6	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Urosh Cuffer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we gathered at the initiative of Members and Members of the SDS Group, who are submitting a proposal for a recommendation on the issue of State property management. Members also discuss some of the solutions contained in the new proposal for the SDH Act adopted by the Government 5. 12. and will soon be dealt with by the National Assembly. I'd like to point out three things. Firstly, the Group of Members points out that in accordance with the current SDH Act, the Government has not submitted a proposal for classification of SDH investments and a proposal for company management guidelines. It should be pointed out here that in February 2013, the Government, in agreement with the National Assembly, submitted proposals for classification and guidelines, which were held at the 13th regular meeting of the National Assembly. 4. Rejected. At that meeting of the National Assembly, I also stressed, inter alia, that the Slovenian State Holding Act was relatively inconceivable in the work relating to the transfer of State investment to holding, which could also seriously impede the privatisation process. At the same time, I promised you the preparation of a package of privatisation companies submitted for confirmation to the National Assembly, which was realized, and was also confirmed by the National Assembly on 21. 6. 2013 My second promise was to prepare a novel of the existing SDH Act, which is still in effect. The fact is that when drafting proposals for amendments and additions to SDH, it proved that there were more than one third of these, so that we had to go to a completely new law adopted by the Government last week and also intervened in the National Assembly. The second point I would stress is that the Group of Members notes that, due to the absence of guidelines and classification, the privatisation process should be compromised and that the latter should be carried out in an untransparent manner. Here I would like to reiterate that the privatisation package of 15 companies has been given the consent of the National Assembly. It should be noted that the original proposal of the Government was complemented precisely to ensure the principle of transparency, and the Government has in particular stressed its commitment to transparency of procedures. The third point I would stress is that a group of Members also raises questions about a new proposal for a law on SDH, which the National Assembly will consider in a short time, but it would be more reasonable to talk about this in a debate when we adopt legislation in the National Assembly, when the National Assembly is also formally informed of the law and when we can all talk about it equally and openly. On the basis of a proposal from the Group of Members and Members, which, on the basis of these warnings, proposes the adoption of recommendations to the National Assembly, and given that the Government expects it to report within 8 days on the reasons for non-compliance with the applicable law, to submit classification guidelines within 14 days for adoption by the National Assembly and to submit candidates for the SDH Supervisory Board, I note that the Government has already sent a written recommendation to the National Assembly, as already explained at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Given that last week the Government approved the proposal for a new law on SDH, I estimate that the submission of a proposal for classification and guidelines and a proposal for candidates at this time is unnecessary and would not bring a long-term solution in the area of public property management, but would only contribute to [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Intransigence. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u8	Thank you, too, for the introductory explanation of the Government's opinion. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mrs Plevčak, who will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u9	All in attendance have a very nice greeting! When we examined in the DeSUS Group the request to convene an extraordinary meeting on the issue of State property management and the argument of this requirement, it was immediately clear to us that it was fully justified. The fact that we have the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is in force and should be fully implemented, is also clear to Members of the DeSUS. That is why our group is also wondering why the hell the law is not being implemented. But given the change of government, the transformation of the coalition and opposition composition and the resulting conceptual changes in the governance of state property, it is clear and understandable why the law in force has not come to life. At the beginning of his term of office, the current government, or Minister of Finance, promised these documents in new content by the end of June at the time of consideration of the then prepared proposals and in the National Assembly for the classification of investments and investment management guidelines. This deadline was again set for the month of September – this year, so that there will be no mistake – as the President of the Government made public. Since nothing happened, we again received only the promise that the material would be ready by the end of the year. Empty promises. We are therefore surprised at the inaction of the Government and the Ministry of Finance. In 10 months of their operation, they did not take seriously the amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act or the preparation of the necessary accompanying documents. All together, however, are a key basis for public investment management. The latter we know how they are managed — bad. This is reflected in an extremely poor economic situation. Instead of the fact that the managers of companies where the state has their share as good hosts are working to flourish and develop these companies, they are managed extremely irresponsiblely and used for client accounts and the fight for domination, which is unacceptable. Moreover, we are convinced that in certain cases it is even a crime. All of these are reasons for the fact that it is really time to change the way state property is managed, so that at least what remains can be positive in the economy. It is now crucial that we also have a governance strategy and a clear economic orientation for Slovenia for the following years at the same time as the law. We can therefore rightly ask ourselves in this place what is going on in our foreign prime minister's visits. The DeSUS delegation also proposed to the Prime Minister that a careful examination of the assets be carried out, in particular Kad, Blue Insurance and the assets and liabilities of the Court. We expect to get the data before we decide in Parliament on the proposal for a new Slovenian State Holding Act. We are afraid that such an important issue as the sale of the remainder of state property would not be decided in an oversimplistic manner, without precise data, why a particular part of the property or share of the individual company is being sold, and without any knowledge of why someone has decided to sell individual investments. If I stop a little now with this bill, which was brought to us by Miklavž to the National Assembly, or perhaps even a parking lot. Firstly, the Government has adopted and sent to the National Assembly a proposal for a law that was not even coalitionly coordinated – not only that, it has not been coordinated, nor has it been coordinated, that I do not lose words about non-compliance with the coalition's cooperation protocol. However, the law is not yet in the legislative procedure, as it has been found that it does not meet the basic conditions for the legislative procedure. Such a lapsus - lapsus? No, such smurf suggests a lack of seriousness or ignorance in the work of the Ministry of Finance. With such important matter, there is no way we can go beyond the financial implications for the state budget, but they will certainly be. I will continue to touch on the drafting or adoption of the current law on holding compared to the drafting and adoption of a new text of the bill of this government. The current coalition has practically fully participated in the formation of the now existing Slovenian State Holding Act, of course some in the role of the opposition. The hours and hours of effort that have been put forward by the negotiators in the working group under the leadership of Member Mark Pogačnik are thus thrown aside, as practically none of what the applicable law commands has been done. Why am I talking about this negotiating group? I would like to stress or recall that the law in force was written or drafted by hand in the hands of the then coalition and opposition. Let me take this opportunity, on behalf of the entire Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, to express my appreciation for the relationship and manner of work of the then leading party to the then coalition. The beginning of the proposal for a new text of the law is a real contradiction to the previous one. Not only has the Government or the Ministry not yet joined the joint working group, but the coordination of coalition partners has not been possible and, as a result, has not been carried out, at least not through joint coalition coordination. As far as we know, each coalition partner held individual meetings on the subject of holding. Then there are individual negotiations with employers' representatives and workers' representatives, and there is probably another civil society. Minister, the President of the Government, this is not good and it is not healthy because, with partial interests that are possibly even entirely personal, and possible lobbying influences, we get legal solutions far from following the general public interest in the efficient, economic and transparent management of state property. However, it is likely that the session season of the National Assembly in 2014 will be opened by considering a new proposal for a law. Although we will not yet consider its contents today, I must say here that the expectations of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, which we have, I must admit, have been a little closer to talking with the President of the Government. In our Group of Members, we stand firm in the view that the Capital Society of Pensions and Disability Insurance must remain a separate legal person with its own authorities. In doing so, we took a closer look at the fact that the conduct of the property sale process is arranged under one roof. The other aspects of governance will be carried out by the Capital Company on its own. It is crucial for us that assets do not go under the ownership of SDH and that they cannot and must not have capital investment in Kad. We insist on this because we want to preserve and respect the purpose of the Capital Society, which is to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the pension fund and thus the security and stability of current and future pensions. DeSUS has already made a number of compromises in this mandate. This is what the times of crisis and questionable political stability require of us, but this time we will insist that When will remain the sole guardian of pension assets. Thus, we are also currently considering the fulfilment of the marriage commitment under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2 after the establishment of the reserve demographic fund by the end of 2014 and the establishment of resources for it. In doing so, we expect that, as one of the Fund's sources, there will certainly be a contribution from purchases from the sale of state property. Given that we will shortly adopt a new law and management strategy, the proposed recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party from the requirement for an extraordinary meeting were in some way unnecessary. As for today's debate, however, we expect it to be very constructive, and we are also assessing that it could contribute to good solutions for the management of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u10	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers! Allow me to begin by reminding my distinguished colleagues why the government decided in 2012 to change the governance system of state property. Simply because the public property management system was inadequate and ineffective. It was scattered among several operators, from AUKN, Soda, Kad, D. S.U., and several other institutions, have benefited from this property and have been far below expectations. The purpose of the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding was to combine ownership and management of state capital investments in one institution, in the Slovenian State Holding, and thus to achieve easier, more uniform, transparent and more efficient management of state assets. In the past, companies owned by Kad, the Court and the AUKN have acted or voted in opposition to the same economic communities, following, logically, different objectives. Such a situation was urgently needed to be cut off. Despite numerous blockades of the current opposition and the current coalition, the Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted and entered into force on 28 December 2012. The Slovenian State Holding Act is the legal basis for the regulated management of state investments in accordance with the acts prescribed by the law. First of all, this is the first classification of investments to be submitted to the National Assembly within one month of the entry into force of the law, which is until 28 January 2013. In this way, the objective of transparent governance of state assets has been achieved all the time since the adoption of the law. However, the management and management of state capital investments should take place later in accordance with the asset management strategy in the Slovenian State Holding, which should be prepared by the management of the Slovenian State Holding within six months of its appointment. Although the Slovenian State Holding Act has been adopted and is in force, it is simply not implemented. With the emergence of the political crisis in the spring of this year and with the change of government, the establishment of the Slovenian state holding company simply died. Instead of classifying investments that should have been long overdue, the Government has set 15 companies to sell without any advance criteria. As it is said, for these companies, we still do not know what type of investment the individual company investment represents, i.e. whether it is strategic, important or portfolio investment. We don't know how the sales process is going, what time dynamics. The procedures are extremely impractical. I hope that not all will take place as well as the sale of Photone, in which Slovenia once again crashed into credibility for at least one wedge on the scale. What business results will be like in companies where the state has its investment, we will talk when the reports are prepared at the end of the business year, and I am afraid they will be even worse than in previous years. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we are extremely concerned that the government, as the hierarchically highest executive body of the laws adopted, simply does not implement them. The government doesn't enforce the laws! The Government should adopt a regulation to respect and enforce it, whether or not it agrees with it. The provisions already adopted are binding on any government until they have been amended. We can imagine what message the Government is conveying to its citizens in this way. A rule that doesn't fit the government doesn't. This is the practice of the government of Alenka Bratusek. In this way, the current government strengthens the belief that we have a legal state of two species. Christian Democrats protest this way of ruling. We supported the recommendations on the home work body, on the Committee on Finance, because their content is a reminder to the Government of compliance with its legal obligations. The current government coalition has not supported the recommendations, as it clearly does not recognise the failure to implement the laws adopted as a major problem, which contributes significantly to the state of the rule of law in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u12	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government! Today we will consider the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of governance of state property. Today we will also hear a debate on a problem that we are all aware of and which is another area that, like many others, divide this nation. This is certainly an area of great importance for the Slovenian future. Today we will not only have a public debate, where we will face the opinions of both, but today we will discuss the allegations that have been written by the applicants of this extraordinary meeting in explanation of the call for an extraordinary meeting and which can be gravely divided into two species. In the first group there are indications relating to the non-compliance with the provisions of the current Law on Slovenian State Holding and in the second group there are indications concerning the inappropriate solutions to the amendment of the Law on Slovenian State Holding, which was adopted a month earlier by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and which Members will hold a general discussion at the January regular meeting of the National Assembly. Let's start with the first set of readings. Applicants say that the provisions of the adopted Slovenian State Holding Act last year are not implemented. In accordance with Article 32 of the Law on the Slovenian State Holding Government, the Slovenian State Holding Board failed to submit a proposal for the classification of investments of the holding company and not a proposal for investment management guidelines. The Government also did not, in accordance with Article 40 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, propose candidates for members of the Supervisory Board. The government's proposal is so clear that so, and here, attention has been paid to the conditions for stealing the century, for non-transparent governance and privatisation, which means considerable political recruitment. That's what the proponents say. Ladies and gentlemen, these are extremely difficult words that require some attention. I'm not sure the motioner is aware of the claim. The eyewitnesses recorded in the explanation of the call for an extraordinary meeting are by no means innocent. If I say something else. At the same time, the applicant submitted a complaint, an accusation and a judgment to that Government. Extremely difficult words, which to me and the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia say only that the proponents obviously have a clear fixed idea of conspiracy. If you've been persuading us in the last few months, the way you've been developing conspiracy theories is somehow: everyone who's not with us is against us or what's not ours is against us. There is no possibility of a normal, cultural and civilized dialogue. If there is anything we can confirm by reading the explanation of the request for an extraordinary session, it is that the paper is the one that carries everything, but unfortunately I must find that this paper really carries everything. You are telling us that we have not accepted your investment classifications of the holding company and the investment management guidelines that you submitted to the National Assembly at the time that you no longer had a majority in the National Assembly. The documents were rejected as conceptually inappropriate and the concept has changed in accordance with the coalition contract so that the direct investments of the State are not transferred to the ownership of the holding. The holding only manages these investments by the State and the owner is still the Republic of Slovenia. This, Your Honor, is an essential difference from what you wanted to do, and you failed. If I say otherwise: the difference is in relation to ownership. Finally, this is also evident from the opening article of the novel, which states that the function of ownership of the State must be separate from other functions performed by the State. This is how we separate power from ownership. Your so-called guidelines and classification in the novel are no longer envisaged as key documents for the establishment of the holding company. This will be established by reshaping the Slovenian Compensation Society into the Slovenian State Holding on the date of the entry into force of the law. The investment management strategy or, more precisely, the first proposal for an investment management strategy must be submitted within three months of the entry into force of the law itself. Investments within the strategy must be classified by type. It would be pointless to draw up new guidelines and a new classification of the investments of the holding company, but if we find that the novelty provides for a different arrangement. It's the same with the candidates for the Supervisory Board, but we'll focus on this obvious a little later. Let's move on. The government further notes that the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act – to be a refreshment – is only to say that we are talking about the amendment of the law that some opposition Members have seen, and secondly not, and everyone agrees that the novelty threatens the stability of the pension system, as it is based on the provisions that the Capital Society will be fully transferred under the auspices of the holding company, in order to remove from the law the provision that obliges Kad to pay EUR 50 million per annum for the coordination of pensions, and that provision provides that 10% of the purchases received by SDH are intended to provide additional funds for the Slovenian Pension and Disability Insurance Office. The latter will also – the opinion of the applicants – jeopardise the stability of the pension fund because the new holding company does not exercise effective and transparent management of the part of the state property that was earmarked for the pension fund on privatisation. If anything, this indicates a markedly narrow view of the issue of the sustainability of the pension system and the pension fund. We already know today that the pension reform you proposed and adopted last year is not enough, and you know it all in this Chamber. We know this less than a year from the adoption itself. We know that the stability of the pension fund will require much more than EUR 50 million, which Kad provides or does not provide. We know that more than 10% of the purchases will be required from privatisation. By the way, what about when there's no capital investment? What about those years when nothing is privatized? Where will 10% of the pension fund come from? For the stability of the pension fund, long-term sustainability will need to be made a new intergenerational agreement, which will definitely have to pass through one law, such as the Slovenian State Holding Act. There will be a need for a new social, intergenerational agreement, an agreement that will clear up a lot of things in this way. I don't know, maybe what I'm saying right now is treason, because that means that the glorious reform of the pension system was just not as great as we accepted it, and as much as you like to praise yourself out loud. Let's move on. You're telling us that the novel, the phantom one, of course, you've seen, and you haven't seen it at the same time, but in some parts it's out of order, and in others it's out of control. Let's take a closer look at where that overcrowding shows up. I was able to see this novel, and I also studied the field of overstatement. I'd say otherwise. It is more about determining the importance or priority. We say that these so-called overriding areas are only being given more attention. For the first time, the system law specifically regulates the area of control by the Court of Auditors. This is the first time that the area of integrity and responsibility of both members of the management boards and members of the supervisory boards in the holding company itself and in companies where the Republic of Slovenia has its investments and administrations is governed. That's right, Your Honor, and nothing else. When you clearly demand responsibility from all members of the boards, all members of the supervisory boards, when you clearly grant the authority to control the anti-corruption commission, the Court of Auditors, when you clearly commit the holding to comply with the Public Information Access Act, then you are accused of high treason and it is clear to you that you are creating conditions for stealing the century, for non-transparent management and privatisation, which is clearly political only ordinary recruitment. That's what we do in practice. If you're not with us, you're against us, and if you're against us, all the resources for your discredition are allowed, all the time from the beginning. The new Slovenian State Holding Act highlights precisely those areas which may at last be a departure from some practice that many refer to as being extremely ineffective, linking State ownership to a negative association, which automatically meant political and therefore non-professional recruitment, which means looting state assets that would constitute nepotism and could still be listed. The government of Alenka Bratušek has reached into this very area of corruption, which separates corruption from corporate property and adds to the fine-tuning management of state property. The government of Alenka Bratušek, at the time of its creation, has advocated that, when we talk about the management of state property, economic legality and not political legitimacy will prevail. This is exactly what the motioners are telling us – why the paper does not provide for the composition of the Supervisory Board of Holding on the principle of balancing opposition and coalition representatives. You're really reading this to us. Why are you deciding on a professionally constituted supervisory board before the political council? Why do you keep defending yourself if you say that politics has nothing to look for in the economy? I don't think a comment is necessary. It is enough to put a mirror in front of you and again you will regret seeing one and the same – yourself and your cruel reality. In the light of the accusations you have made in your request to convene today's session, I'm afraid I can't help but wonder about your intentions. Apologies that would act as a minimum of ability, we know that we cannot expect your purpose, but unfortunately we can only find from day to day that everything you do is done to create discord in Slovenian society, with a view to dividing into yours, ours, those who are good and honest, and those who are thieves. I've only listed some inconsistencies that you've imposed upon your request for an extraordinary meeting. I just can't help but wonder what happens when your threats and black predictions don't come true. Where will you find your enemy then? You're gonna make it up again. I know that masters of conspiracy theory and your labs and fears have no limits, because you are only masters and masters have learned – you know how this works, and it has been going on for several years, from here to eternity. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only conclude that today's extraordinary meeting is just another one in the series of extraordinary meetings you are calling. It means nothing more than just blocking processes in this country. There are other meetings that are dedicated to themselves and possibly to the promotion of some individuals who would like to appear to be the most honest, even though they suggested the exact same things themselves yesterday. We can't cooperate in this way. I hope you look fat today, if not at least tonight, in the mirror for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u14	Thank you. Romana Tomc has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u15	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Hello, representatives of the Ministry or Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The overly intertwined state and policy with business is one of the main problems of Slovenia. The failed transition, based on the failure of privatisation, has led to a chaotic situation where the foundations of the democratic system are at risk, the economy cannot develop all its potentials, and instead people are dealing with an ever-increasing quality of life primarily with how they will survive from day to day. From a promising young country, we have been able to find ourselves in a situation in 20 years where respected international institutions have been telling us again every day that we are in an increasingly poor situation. We cannot promise economic growth for at least a few more time; unemployment is rising; there are no new jobs; red tape is growing; and corruption is more likely than we have ever been prepared to admit. Obviously, our business model wasn't successful. Without changes and decisive moves that will put economic and social development back on sound foundations, we cannot promise any progress, but, as it all seems, the coalition is still not ready to give up this model. Many of the problems that we have long covered our eyes with remain unresolved and two of the most important can be considered the rehabilitation of the banking system and the withdrawal of the country from the economy. I estimate that the problem of privatisation is much greater and much more difficult to solve than the rehabilitation of the banking system. Why? The answer lies in identifying those who will pay the price to solve one or the other problem. While the burden of bank recovery will be borne most by taxpayers, the consequences of privatisation will be felt mainly by those who have adopted state ownership and used it to make money on their own account and to maintain a system that distances us from European standards and the developed world. It's not hard to solve problems on the shoulders of others. It's harder to give up privileges. For a healthier, open and competitive environment, we therefore need to reduce the country's impact on the economy by selling a large share of the property to the right owners, but for the second part, which will remain State-owned due to special importance, we need to ensure professional and efficient management and separate ownership and management functions, a separate policy from interference with current business decisions. As the main, most important and crucial issue in relation to the withdrawal of the economy is: does the government of Alenka Bratušek and this coalition with privatisation mean anything at all? Does he really want to break ties to past practice and to replace a failed model based on the promotion of national interest with a new, different and successful one? Follow-up to the summit by rejecting a government proposal by the President of the National Assembly suggests that key players who should actively participate and support privatisation are holding a fig in their pocket. Let me remind you, the government of Janez Janša drafted the Slovenian State Holding Act last summer and strongly coordinated it not only with the coalition but also with the opposition. To the detriment of some professional solutions, however, we agreed in the end and reached a compromise that was acceptable to all. At least that's what it felt like. The real face turned out pretty soon. Only a few minutes before the expiry of the deadline, positive Slovenia requested a referendum without success. The Constitutional Court rejected the request. The former government has therefore taken the next step. In accordance with the provisions of the law, it prepared guidelines and classifications of investments and sent both documents to the National Assembly. Regrettably, the government fell before the hearing for known reasons in the National Assembly. At that time, the opposition Members became coalition, replaced the role and colour and had a sufficient majority of the votes by which they rejected both the guidelines and the classification. Hereinafter, instead of the strategic documents that are supposed to provide answers to how, under what conditions, the country will withdraw from the economy, we have obtained a list of 15 companies for sale. For one third of those sales procedures were already in progress, some even just before completion. Reliable answers to questions about why these companies were on the list and what were the criteria and criteria for selection, we have never received. However, we have received a new bill prepared by the Ministry of Finance. This concept so far puts it on its head. According to media reports, the proposal was sent by the government to the National Assembly after intense negotiations within the uncoordinated coalition. It is true that the Minister presented the proposal to the opposition just before today, but without any real possibility that our proposals would find a place in the law. The Epilogue, as it is said, has been rejected by the President of the National Assembly. All these complications and constantly new manoeuvres, which are intended only to buy time, indicate that the coalition with privatisation is not serious or that one part is serious and the other part is not. We don't know exactly because actions don't confirm words. A lot of theories, a lot of beautiful promises confuse true intentions and the actual state. All of this also points to a great disharmony within the coalition. It is very obvious that coalition parties have different views on key issues for the further development of Slovenia. However, it is time for us to start talking in peace and slowly about what the policy of governance of state assets and what belongs to our silver and what not is simply gone. This should be discussed by the coalition when it took responsibility for the leadership of this country. At a time when we do not know which companies are strategic for the Government and which not, how much property it intends to retain under the State's auspices at all, a government team with the President of the Government is taking charge of investment conferences abroad, where foreign investors are attracted to the purchase of Slovenian companies. We welcome the decision that the Government participates in representing Slovenia as an interesting and attractive destination for foreign investors, but it must be clear that the task of the President or Prime Minister is not to sell businesses. The question is also what good can the President of the Government say about the Slovenian business environment in order to convince the buyers, since the last year was marked mainly by new taxes and thereby a deterioration of the competitive situation and the environment. The countries with which we compete for investor affection are ahead of us. It is worth noting that it is very important who will be the new owners, because we do not want speculative investors who do not care about the long-term development of businesses. For those who are strategic, it is not only price but everything else that will affect their business. Worse and more expensive business environment, constantly new and new taxes, as well as the fear of someone pulling the brakes at the last minute and stopping the privatisation process, not attracts, but deters serious investors. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that there is a high risk that privatisation of state property will be compromised and that it will take place intransparency due to non-compliance with the current Law on Slovenian State Holding and Political Personnel. In particular, we would like to point out that the law in force, in addition to the separation of assets from the State and the more balanced composition of the supervisory authorities, also ensures the stability and sustainability of the pension fund. The new proposal prepared by the current government or it has already been drawn up deals with this issue differently, which raises doubts that the property allocated to the pension fund will be used for other purposes. This option, which is very real, is also highlighted by the provision in the recently adopted Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Although we believe that the composition of the Supervisory Board should not be crucial to the effectiveness of sales and to the efficiency of managing state assets, we note that it is unacceptable that, in the event of the new Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government of Alenka Bratušek will fully subordinate itself to the Government in the way that the Government will be the sole proposer of all five members of the Supervisory Board. Not one year has passed since the more balanced composition of the Supervisory Council was the fundamental requirement of Members of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. Today, thinking is completely different. Finally, let me raise the fundamental issue related to the further development of the economic system in Slovenia and the key issue of governance of state assets: is the ruling coalition and is the Government serious? If this is the case, then, on the basis of an already existing law that provides a good basis, it should proceed as quickly and transparently as possible with the process, of course with clearly designed criteria and criteria to be derived from accompanying documents to be prepared as soon as possible – guidelines for investment management and investment classification.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u17	Respected and respected! We Social Democrats are determined to implement modern, modern standards of corporate governance in Slovenia to ensure responsible governance of state property. This is not a position to be invented today or at the time of the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Social Democrats were pioneers of the introduction of responsible and modern corporate governance in this country when, as a leading political force in the State Assembly, we proposed the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act of the State, the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which, within just one year, established all the necessary grounds for the return, the revenue from the State budget of management to strengthen the establishment of an ethical basis for fair management and the exercise of responsibility, and to include Slovenia in the circle of those countries that respect and nurture state property as an important development factor. In a very short time, virtually one year, the established practices of the then Capital Investment Management Agency have reached such a value that even the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as an example of good practices across Europe, has represented them. In previous opinions, we have already heard that some of these models are attacking, building on its inefficiency, and today they are wondering why some of us are changing the law, why we simply do not submit strategies to the National Assembly. The same question could be raised by the government majority of Janez Janša at the beginning of 2012. Why did not, among other things, on good grounds starting to produce results in an increased return on the management of state assets by as much as 40% address the perceived shortcomings of that model? But no. I submit that the Capital Investment Management Agency has been disruptive because it has recently begun to produce results and has started what it intended to do despite individual errors, and this is a hard process of proving that the country can be a good owner of companies. This mission had to be interrupted because less than we do on responsible corporate governance, the social acceptability of the universal privatisation of assets is greater. At that time, the capital investment management agency was deliberately and with clear political, economic objectives dismantled. Why did the then government majority, led by the Social Democrats, enter into the process of introducing modern standards of corporate governance, as set out in the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development? Because Slovenia has joined this organisation or because a political consensus has been formed that the area of governance of state property needs to be regulated, because of ourselves, because of the development opportunities in this country, because of the development momentum of our companies and because of opportunities and jobs for our people. Especially since that was the end of the period when the policy, especially in the period 2004-2008, broke down after this property and created the contaminants of the harmful state that we are witnessing today. Today, the Slovenian Democratic Party shows us double criteria and requires transparent privatisation, while the people who speak for this speaker during that period in the closed offices of the Prime Minister were selling state property in a transparent manner. By the way, today we're wondering how a giant bank hole was created. The huge bank hole was created not only because irresponsible bankers granted loans to those who, given the risk assessment, should not have received them, but also because there was a political will to sell assets to owners who did not have economic characteristics to become owners. Those who at the time had scissors and linen in their hands to assess who on the other side of the table as a buyer of an important part of state property could have stopped this process and today the volume of bad investments could have been a third lower. Remember the excellent management of political loyalties in many of Slovenia's systemically important companies. Remember the great damage that has been created, due to failed investments, poor governance, a politically driven economy, and the price of economic collapse at the level of the national disaster for which the price is to be paid today. Tycunization was an abuse of national interest. The national interest should never have been what it turned into. In order to break trust and stability, you have the right to propose this extraordinary meeting to the left-hand side of responsibility. Slovenia has not made capital mistakes all 22 years of its independence. As long as it had a clear goal of joining the European Union until it had built and managed to form sufficient national consensus on this, it was also guided relatively wisely, and despite individual mistakes or wrong trends, Slovenia had by 2004 formed as an exemplary country, a country and an economy of macroeconomic balance, which was fully prepared for new victories in the future. In 2004, due to the irresponsible management of the country, the irresponsible management of assets, the political staff in key economic operators, from banks to systemically important enterprises, the decommissioning process began. Therefore, colleagues, we reject the evidence of the double criteria that Social Democrats are expected to have in this matter of governance of state property and privatisation. There is no secret that we are being held back to the privatisation process, but at the same time we understand the situation of the Republic of Slovenia and the challenges facing it. That is why we, but not a light heart, supported the list of 15 privatisation companies in the first half of this year with most of our votes. The area of state property in the economy is, according to our assessment, a field of great opportunities, not for lumparies, but for responsible governance, in order to strengthen the market potential of an important part of economic operators, to conquer new markets, to invest Slovenian knowledge in products and services created in Slovenia, thereby strengthening added value and creating opportunities for local jobs, in order to achieve as high a return as possible and to create a stable source of funding for the state budget through smart, sustainable dividend policy. Finally, to strengthen Slovenia's position in the wider region, where Slovenia has unfortunately already lost its position as a lighthouse and economic centre not only of Slovenia, but of the wider space. We also have social democrats now that we have before us a process of parliamentary treatment and adoption of a new law on Slovenian State Holding, very clear, open and sincere purposes. Indeed, even now, when faith and trust in Slovenia have dropped in general, we trust and believe in the potentials of Slovenia, we trust in Slovenian intelligence, we trust in its position, in the knowledge of our people and the objective opportunities that lie ahead of this country and our people. By our conduct and work, we want to strengthen these potentials. There seems to be roads in Slovenian politics and also important parts of society that have actually lost faith in this country. Like on a platter, they want to offer it to others. We would like to recall that this country gained its independence 22 years ago because we believed that we could create better conditions for Slovenia to be a place of freedom, high protection of human rights, economic prosperity and general social well-being. This is not a dream that they would give up because of the economic crisis. This is a commitment that guides us in assessing the measures and actions needed, even when we have to make painful compromises so that one day these dreams can become reality again. In doing so, we swear to the best of our intentions and call on others — not for our own benefit, political or otherwise, but for the common good. When the Government first presented the Slovenian State Holding Act to coalition partners, we had a number of comments on it. There is already a demanding process of coalition coordination behind us. This coordination took place both at the level of joint meetings of the entire coalition, at the level of individual meetings between the parliamentary groups and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and in the form of multiple coordination at the level of the heads of the parties. To date, we have harmonised the substance of the Slovenian State Holding Act to a good extent. Nevertheless, there are still some pressing issues at this point that require further coordination. This is precisely what the political process is – coordinating and negotiating to achieve optimal solutions, where broad political and social consensus can be formed. Among the main issues that remain open is the position and purpose of the strategy. I agree that, more than a change in form, this country needs a state property management strategy and an answer to the key question of what is in the case of enterprises that remain in majority, full or partial ownership to date, for the country of such strategic importance due to infrastructure, development and other objectives that this property must be kept in state ownership. This answer could already be on our tables in 2012. Today, too, we claim that this is a key document that we need and, therefore, let me say that we reject the dictatorship in the transitional and final provisions of the bill, which provides that the government will only present a classification within three months of the adoption of the law to the National Assembly. We rejected the proposed classification by the Janša government with a very clear view. Only in one of the tables of the name of undertakings and the definition of the strategic importance or nature of investment as portfolio investments do we not recognise the signs on which the strategic nature of the individual investment could be determined. We therefore claim that within three months of the entry into force of the new Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government shall submit a strategy with all the essential elements provided for by the law for this document. Only then will a comprehensive assessment of the issue of strategicity be made possible in the National Assembly. This is the most important issue for the National Assembly to address in the corporate governance process. The personal question and the question of who will sit in the supervisory council and the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board is a secondary issue. Nevertheless, it needs to be touched because they talk to a large extent about whether we are serious about corporate governance, fair and transparent governance and such privatisation. I therefore again believe that, in the supervisory board of the most important public investment manager, there is no place for delegates of political parties, but that, on the basis of the very difficult criteria contained in the law, the expert commission makes an election, the finance minister proposes to the government and then the government proposes to the National Assembly to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board. If non-conclusion occurs at any point in the process of this proposal and the proposal is different from that of the expert committee, this must be made public. This is an important point which also allows the National Assembly to react when necessary in terms of safeguarding the interests and objectives of good governance of state property. According to our opinion, there is also an unnecessary exception to the law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses. We do not understand employees in holding, in companies owned or managed by them as an obstacle to corporate governance. We understand them as value added. Not only to be able to effectively protect their social and trade union rights, but also to represent an important correction of any further harmful political, lobbying or other influence on the management of state property. We therefore insist that, in the Board of Supervisors of the Slovenian State Holding, a seat be provided to at least one employee representative, who will be selected by the employees of the holding company and all other companies owned and managed in principle by one employee, one vote, thereby ensuring minimum participation and correction of the adverse effects on the management of state property. If we would like today's speakers to see the intentions of this government as well-intentioned, then we could find that the proposal of the Slovenian State Holding Act, with its solutions, is a successful genetics of two concepts, a concept that we represented by the Social Democrats at the time we proposed and implemented the Capital Investment Management Act and the original, now in force Law on the Slovenian State Holding. As such, it could be a starting point for a wider consensus to be built around the management of state property. Unfortunately, the biggest opposition party is also late this time to take a constructive role in strengthening confidence in the country, its institutions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not only the government of some political majority, but a democratically elected Slovenian government. We participate in this government of Social Democrats because we believe and understand that Slovenia needs to ensure stability and restore its trust, both by its people, citizens and citizens, as well as by international institutions and the international economic environment. This is also the aim of an investment tour across important European cities – to rebuild the new image of Slovenia, the image that this country once had, the open-ended countries, the countries of many economic opportunities, where there are friendly and working people living and which is, above all, the most beautiful in the world. We believe in such a Slovenia, and we are willing to continue working hard for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u19	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In recent weeks, we can accompany the President of the Government as he travels tirelessly across all four parts of the old continent and presents opportunities for the investment and cooperation offered by our country. Foreign investors show interest, and I sincerely hope that this time we are serious about our promises of economic cooperation and privatisation. The conceptual differences that arise in the coalition and we do not deny them, and the President of the Government is starving. Although I admit that the position of older coalition colleagues today surprises me somewhat. We must not neglect that for the first time, the government has a list of companies ready to sell. In the National Assembly, the Coalition adopted a list of 15 companies with which it agreed to sell, and gave the Government the authority to start the search for buyers. Here I must point out that it was not only a list of companies, but also methods and procedures have been established to ensure transparent sales and to achieve the best possible price. Each company's proposal was also fully justified and justified together with all the necessary economic indicators. This is the path we have decided in the National Gazette to demonstrate to the international public the will and maturity to be open to foreign investment, so that recent presentations by the President of the Government are a logical and expected continuation. As you rightly warn your fellow opposition, there have been attempts to sell enough, in fact too much. It is necessary to move to action, and this list of 15 companies is the shortest way and the clearest signal to investors that we are serious this time. The fact that we have problems managing state-owned companies has not been established by this government. Pahor's government has already detected this problem, but it's a bit embarrassing. We believe that the intentions of those days were sincere, but that was not the case. The fact is that the strategy has not been adopted and that the Human Resources Accreditation Council has withdrawn because of the inability to operate. This has led to a consensus in the professional and political public that AUKN is not the right way. That is why Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of the National Gazette, proposed a better approach, this is the establishment of the Slovenian state holding company. The law was adopted by Parliament, but unfortunately the National Assembly did not adopt guidelines for the management and classification of investments, which effectively halted the implementation of the SDH Act. It is precisely because of this complication, which, in our opinion, should not jeopardise the initial procedures for systemic privatisation, that we have already adopted in the National Assembly a reasoned decision on the sale of 15 companies. The opposition is asking us why we do not want to bump our heads back into the wall and, in any way, force ourselves with a solution that has already been adopted, but which is not supported enough today. It is wise to step two steps aside and to continue privatisation through the open door. This may make the journey longer, but the goal will be achieved earlier. Not only does the new proposal for the SDH law remove the built-in policy of the Supervisory Council, but it also includes many comments from the Commission on the prevention of corruption. We are aware of the opposition's fears that we will again attract investors who are willing to invest in new jobs and trust the Slovenian economy and then disappoint them again. This can't happen. In the Civil Gazette, we count on all coalition partners to recognize the efforts that the Government and the President of the Government are making in this project and making reasonable decisions. We are in the Citizens' List and will always be advocates of privatisation in a transparent way and in line with positive international practice. However, we are not satisfied with the current practice of managing state-owned enterprises, and we will never be advocates of 'admission' by the State-elects, which took place in an unknown place at an unknown time and for an unknown commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u20	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u21	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Today, we are talking in the National Assembly at an extraordinary meeting about the problem of the management of state property. In these days we also expect the final report of the review of Slovenian banks, stress tests and also the holes that have emerged in recent years in Slovenian banks. These two topics, the management of state property and the Slovenian banking system, are two of Slovenia's key cancers at the moment, two of which everyone in Slovenia reminds the public, as well as those that point to the problems of Slovenian society today. It is important that we talk about this today, and I think these two topics are very much judged together, and it may even be right to talk about both things in the same week. As far as governance of state property is concerned, we are always talking about two things: governance, governance, management, operations of these state-owned companies, on the one hand, and on the other hand about the increasingly pressing problem of privatisation of state-owned enterprises, and we know that Slovenia is one of those countries that have a very large share of state-owned enterprises. As far as governance of state-owned enterprises is concerned, the quality of this management is in some ways a test of maturity, democracy and, in some ways, of the chosen policies – where policy also decides. I think we've fallen hard on this test in recent years. We also failed the maturity test, including in those companies where the state was not the owner and where there were different shareholders where there was virtually private ownership and, above all, the management structures sought to make this ownership structure stronger. He reads differently to tycunize, privatises these companies. In this part, we can speak calmly about the very strong threshold that was on one side, whether we want to hide it or not, often connected with influential people from Slovenian politics, influential managers who also had many roots in Slovenian politics, and bankers. In this way, this very difficult situation has arisen when these banking services occur, which ultimately led to taxpayers being paid a high price over bad debts and debts that will pass into public debt. In the last week, names were published in the media from the diocese, the surnames Pavček, Kordež, Bavčar, Ročnik, Zidar, However, and the Timer to the project Stožice. At this point, I think it is crucial that we be able in this House to get a very clear picture of what was going on in Slovenia's banks, who were signatories to the left and on the right, that we learn from this, and that we will finally discover what we are all saying out loud, sometimes we take a few guesses, most of the time we are looking into individual issues, and that we will finally say bob beans. As far as the privatisation of Slovenian state property and the relationship of the Slovenian People's Party in this case are concerned, we often get the impression that we are guilty because we have talked about national interest, because we have sought to get a large part of this property, which was sometimes socially, into the hands of Slovenian and Slovenian entrepreneurs, whether they are institutions or individuals, and that they would be masters of their own. Let me say that the Slovenian People's Party came from the Slovenian Agricultural Union, which was founded in 1988, that we have a 122-year tradition of the Slovenian People's Party when John Evangelist Krk and his contemporaries realized how to be a material master on their own if you want your children to have a bright perspective. These people, those who were in the Union Hall or those who stood next to John the Evangelist Kreek at the time, never thought about selling their crops as farmers, never thought about eating seed potatoes because they knew that they needed to think in advance. Our efforts have also been sincere, sincere in that we thought that even in Slovenia there were enough conscious, capable Slovenians and Slovenians who would be well-governed to create new jobs, not that they would try to break this state, social property and make it a private eldorado, which would ultimately be fatal for a lot of people in their personal sense. As for the fact that the country can be a good owner, that such forms are also present around the world, we are aware of this, and there are many such cases today. However, as I have already said, unfortunately, people of different political profiles, different thresholds, different networks of Slovenian entrepreneurship, developed Slovenia in a different way, and today we have what we have in this area. Many of them who have been involved in their business, in their basic activities, today have successful businesses, but unfortunately there are too many of these cases. As I have already said, this is also going into public debt. In this part, I think we owe it to us to open up this Pandora's box and these secrets, which are sometimes hidden in bank secrecy, for the second time in the Public Finance Act, to simply expose and have so much money, to have the courage to tell taxpayers what time it is in this area. A number of opportunities have been missed in recent months. A number of amendments were proposed under the Banking Act, under the Public Finance Act, which had a common thread in that, once a debt in banks has passed as a bad public debt claim, there is also a banking secret and it is necessary for them to have an insight into these matters. If we have the opportunity, the opportunity and the responsibility to decide that public debt covers these benefits from the past, we also have this responsibility to expose those responsible. Unfortunately, this is very related to the topic we are dealing with today. I think that the opportunities that have been missed must be corrected in the coming weeks, in the months ahead, to find this power and all together to accept this unitedly as a common obligation. What is happening to us now is that prosecutors in some way give a basket to the minister, that they do not want to sit with him as a politician at the same table, but at the same time very clearly beg that they close their doors in banks and cannot reach those who are guilty of these irresponsible acts must be stopped. Order must be made in this area. Similarly, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition need to put a little more effort into drafting legislation on the Slovenian State Holding. Here, by one of the opposition parties, it was commended that this was served in 2012, when Minister Šuštersič and his team prepared this legislation, when in the hot summer months they also found sufficient time for professional teams to prepare the legislation thoroughly, on the basis of which they tried to find consensus on such a responsible topic in all parliamentary parties and then finally adopted the Slovenian State Holding, legislation that would define governance, while at the same time following a thorough consideration of where we want strategically with our companies, whose activities, which were important to us, also decided on the privatisation and sale of state property. Today, it has already been said here, and it is so close to everyone's memory that we know how much effort last year is the opposition, today the coalition members of some parliamentary groups have invested in delaying and delaying the Constitutional Court's judgment at the end of the year, and that at the same time, just before the collapse of the government, the Slovenian State Holding Act has been adopted and enforced. A classification of the corporate governance strategy was also prepared and, to be fair, 2013 was lost in this area. In 2013, the government, which took over the responsibility of managing the country in March, did not pay any attention to this area and, except in a way, has regulated governance in a rather strange way. It is very difficult, through the Slovenian Compensation Society, to talk here today about modern corporate governance, given that we know that this corporate governance is largely carried out by highly tested political personnel, who also have such or different problems from the past and are still very current today. In this part, I'm really worried about what's going to happen next. In today's positions of the coalition parliamentary groups, unfortunately, I have not found that common nominee to convince me that you have this law, which has now been sent by the Government to Parliament and has been rejected by the President of Parliament to the Government in addition to the fact that you have a key agreement in this area. I think we'll be dealing with coalition arguments again. The fact that, like last year, the coalition and the opposition would sit together and talk about it, it's obviously not in your repertoire, and you don't even intend to do that. Today we have heard how many laps you have run at the level of the parliamentary groups, at the level of the party presidents, while I think that you have made a law quite forceful, which has already received a basket from the President of the National Assembly, and today also here, in the positions of individual parliamentary groups. My colleagues, this does not inspire me to expect us to resolve this traumatic issue in the coming year. Here we hear the first reading will be in January. Interestingly, many laws have been adopted by emergency procedure. Here the coalition itself represents the first reading in January. I would be more pleased if this first reading took place at the level of negotiations between all parliamentary parties, as it has been in last year's year, and today we would have a harmonised law that could be adopted, a coordinated strategy for the management of these companies, and in particular a classification where the privatisation intentions of Slovenia would be known in this area, where something will certainly have to be done. I wonder whose mandate this tour of the President of the Government is based on. What kind of companies are you talking about — those that you don't agree with each other — those that were harmonised in the classification last year? I think we should try, as I have already said, to first create, agree and achieve, on the basis of a clear strategy of individual sectors, which companies we will privatise and in what way they can remain partly or mostly state-owned. If we had this thing done, we'd send qualified people, those who would do it professionally around the world, and they'd do it. We, the Presidents of the Government and ministers, who are primarily responsible for the economic part of our country, strongly recommend that we work together to create a normal business environment in the Republic of Slovenia, a business environment in which taxes will not be increased from month to month, an environment in which we will all work together to reduce administrative obstacles and make the country more friendly, and an environment in which the judiciary and the repressive authorities will put those who committed the crime where they need to be put as soon as possible. I am afraid that today's debate will primarily be an account of the past and unfortunately a less perspective on the future where it should all be directed together. On my part and on the part of the Slovenian People's Party, I call on all parliamentary parties to sit together on this very important development issue, for the fate of Slovenia, and these nuts, which are being crushed within the coalition, to be crushed together at the level of all parliamentary parties. Having said this, I believe that the difficult and difficult negotiations, the coordination of different positions, would no longer matter what the supervisory councils will be like, what the composition of these supervisory councils will be. Until then, I think, and regrettably, you do not convince me that those supervisory councils that will be proposed by the Finance Minister by the Government and confirmed by Parliament, the supervisory councils that will delegate coalitions, not those that know and can manage good corporate governance. I think today's debate is necessary. I don't know why we lost a year. Above all, I hope that, at the end of the year, when the year 2013 is slowly ending, when we will have to wish ourselves happiness and success next year, the debate will focus on the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, I give my word to the Magi's proponent. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u23	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Following the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, I believe that it has been shown that the call for an extraordinary meeting was justified by the Slovenian Democratic Party and that the views of the members of the groups have said that it is likely even more justified than we expected at the outset, since from the positions of the parliamentary groups, particularly by the coalition, it is clear that the coalition on the governance of state assets and the new law it is preparing is even more severe than it has so far appeared in the media. With regard to individual positions of the parliamentary groups, it would be possible to start with Positive Slovenia. Unfortunately, the leader of the parliamentary group who presented this position is not here. I would suggest that he read once again the Magnography of the position of the coalition party DeSUS and will then probably be more clear to him why the SDS requested the convening of this extraordinary meeting. The Head of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia explained how this new bill is more restrictively affecting the responsibility of the administrations, the responsibility of the supervisory councils, that this is further explained and quoted in the bill itself, but would point out once again to the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party has already said that we are assessing this new proposal, which appears a little in the public debate, then the coalition or government sends it to the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly rejects it because of its shortcomings, little will the Minister of Finance present to us that it is justified, which we have said is that in essential matters the law is subordinated and, in certain cases, overriding — where it is not necessary. Responsibility of the administrations, responsibility of the supervisory councils – all of this already contains the Law on Economic Companies. The distinguished President of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, spoke of the division of ours and yours. If anyone shares ours and yours, it is the government of Alenka Bratušek and the Ministry of Finance, led by Dr. Chufer, who threw the opposition out of the supervisory council. Here I would like to present a document, namely an agreement on the withdrawal of the referendum initiative and the completion of the Slovenian State Holding Act. It is not initialled, but it is signed by then Minister Janez Šušteršič and current President of the Government Alenka Bratušek. The head of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia probably also remembers how we sat together in the office of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Virant, where we were presented with conditions for withdrawal of the referendum signatures. One of the key conditions for the withdrawal of referendum signatures was for the opposition to receive three members in the supervisory council, even though it already had one. The other conditions were that the Court of Auditors was also responsible for auditing all subsidiaries of the Slovenian State Holding Company, that information of a public nature was not only applicable to the Slovenian State Holding, but also to all subsidiaries, and that public contracts were not only applicable to the Slovenian State Holding, but also to all its subsidiaries. In this proposal, however, everything is different. The opposition has no representative in the supervisory board, the Court of Auditors is solely responsible for SDH and not its subsidiaries, public information is only applicable to SDH and is not applicable to its subsidiaries. As a result, the SDS Group has designated the government of Alenka Bratusek as the government of double criteria and indiscretions. I think that's enough hard evidence, this document. We could also say that the government of Alenka Bratušek is a monologue government, but the government of Janez Janša could be said that the government was a dialogue, because the opposition was invited at the time of the presentation, in preparing the law itself. I must admit that Minister Cuffer came to the SDS Group, but post-festum when the case was ready. Even then, it was seen that there were major differences within the coalition, because they had sent a bill at night, but in the morning, when he came to present this law, everything was different. He said these were other arrangements. These are the indications we have that there is something very wrong with asset management and that privatisation is likely to be at risk. The SD Group talked a lot about pioneering in state property management by setting up the AUKN. Maybe it was a project SD that was a little different. Dear colleague Frangež explained that, above all, the AUKN allowed responsibility. I would ask him if it would be true that the AUKN was a system that allowed more responsible management and responsibility if it could answer me, who is responsible for the recapitalisation of the NKBM by companies that do not belong to the banking that have been forced, and today all these energy companies have suffered a huge loss. The reference year of AUKN was 2011. The revenue from asset management was then EUR 35 million and the expenditure was more than EUR 500 million. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the management of state assets will be effective when the budget for the revenue of the management of assets will vary in plus compared to the expenditure. The key purpose of the creation of the Slovenian State Holding Act was to concentrate the assets in one place. We estimate that this will make governance more efficient, more cost-effective and, above all, more responsible. Who today bears responsibility in the AUKN system when AUKN voted in one of the congregations of companies in this way, and when else? As a result of all these allegations, we have decided to propose a new concept under the direction of the government of Janez Janša, which is better to ensure more efficient management of state property and, in particular, a system that will allow transparent privatisation. The Civil Code regrets that this law has not been brought to life. I'll tell you why he didn't live. He did not live because of your parliamentary group, because you rejected the classification – classification is the basis for SDH to come alive – despite your promise one day earlier to support this classification. This was the work of your Minister Janez Šušteršič, but overnight this changed, and accept the responsibility that SDH has not come to life, not to say in your position that you regret. With your parliamentary votes, this classification could then come to life. You're also pointing out how the government sells companies abroad. The government has no business to sell, and that's what the Court is responsible for. It is important – I agree that this is about the promotion of Slovenia, Düsseldorf, Paris, Moscow, Milan, but I do not believe that this government at these investment conferences offers only the 15 companies you have proposed with a decision in the National Assembly. The Citizen List talked about not knowing what criteria, criteria and all of the ways in which these 15 companies were determined. Nobody's here. It's just a list. That is why we have not confirmed this in the SDS Group. There have also been 5 companies on this list, with sales procedures already taking place substantially before, and there are Economic Exhibition and Paloma on this list. I really do not believe that the Government and the Court would afford these investment conferences after several European cities to offer the Economic Exhibition. This is in particular also a matter for the coalition, especially for the SD party. Clearly, the classification presented at that time by the government of John Janša contained much more than you offer. The criteria defined were defined, the objectives were defined, and what to do with the purchase was also identified. There was only one proposal on this list at the time to initiate sales procedures — Telekom. In the SD Group you then marked this document as a major edition of Slovenia. How do you then comment on visits to Düsseldorf u, Paris, Moscow, Milan, when it was offered probably the entire Slovenian property, from Krka, Petrol, Insurance Office Triglav? We have never opposed privatisation in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we have opposed privatisation in the way that the government of Alenka Bratušek invented. We estimate that it is imperative that a classification be adopted and that the National Assembly, on the basis of the criteria, determine which companies are strategic and which ones are selling. I will repeat the words of current Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who, as an opposition member of the working group at the time, said: "Look, this bill may not be so bad, but I expect you to have a consensus when we discuss the sale of state property." Where are these words now, these promises and this consensus? This is where the National Assembly should be defined, and then the National Assembly should put its hands away. Then he should go to investment conferences every day. He's walking without consent today. I think that Slovenia has made the biggest mistake under the mandate of the government of Borut Pahor when it has promised others many things, and all these promises have been in the pocket. In the SDS, we're afraid that's the way it is today. Slovenia really doesn't have time here. We know that we have the least foreign investment that we would need today. It would be important for the National Assembly to determine which companies are strategic, why these companies are strategic, to determine what we will do with these companies, not just to indicate that they are strategic. What are we gonna do? What will be the goals? What will the country have from these companies? What companies will be in the sales group? What's going to happen to the purchases? The purchases should be intended for debt reduction, for the development of enterprises to be defined as strategic and for the settlement of the obligations of the State. It seems to me that these are the key elements that we are drawing attention to in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which should be defined substantially before privatisation begins. As far as membership in the supervisory board is concerned. She said the policy is to put your hands away. Read now the Act on Slovenian State Holding. Important criteria are the conditions for a candidate to be a member of the Supervisory Board at all. In this existing, applicable law, the conditions for members of the Supervisory Board are substantially more acute than those required by the Company Act. I'd like to mention one more thing. In particular, the party of the Social Democrats in the past liked to look at Scandinavian models and pictured a meaningful Scandinavian model transfer to Slovenia. In Slovenia he was a representative of the Norwegian Government, which deals with the management of state property. It was said that the state-owned company in Norway was managed efficiently, qualitatively. He himself said that there was no obstacle to a member of the Governing Council if he had a client card in his pocket. But what's important is that he's professional. This is also the position of SDS. I think today's debate will be interesting. Given the dynamics presented by the Secretary of State on yesterday's committee, how this law is supposed to be dealt with, we can come to an early conclusion that even if you align yourself in the coalition today, you will not – I see that this width is growing – Slovenia will be able to be without strategy and without classification for a whole year. This means that for one year the government of Alenka Bratušek will have the opportunity to sell ad hoc companies, to manage ad hoc and to exercise partial personal interests here in particular. The reasons for the resignation of the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society were clear in the media. It followed a derogation which has not yet been accepted by the Supervisory Board, the President of the Management Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society. I think these are the arguments the coalition should consider. I think everyone prefers to type, head down. It's you, the government, who is responsible for managing the state's assets. We can only warn, but you have taken a step further to make this property fully subordinated to you through the supervisory council by means of a bill. That's not good. In these 20 minutes, I think the indiscretion, the duality of these coalitions has been argued.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlisic has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Mr Pogačnik, the procedures and methods and the explanations and descriptions of companies are given in the explanation of the then proposal for a decision that we considered in the National Assembly. If you didn't read it then, you can read it today. Now we have plenty of time to read it to you, but I'd rather not. However, I would just like to mention the chapters in this explanation of the decision we adopted at the time, namely: Legal basis, Capital investment sales objectives, Use of purchases obtained by sale, Methods and procedures for the sale of capital investments by the State, followed by a slightly longer chapter, and finally Presentation of individual capital investments in the sales process. Then, for each of these 15 companies listed, the reasons for the sale of these investments, what business data, what the current ownership structure and what dividends were received are also mentioned. For every company it's beautifully described, wide open, so you can take a look at it. The material is still available in the information system of the National Assembly, but it is also accessible to all citizens, not just us sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has a debate now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! It looks like there's really going to be a pretty lively debate. It is true that this is the topic that we wanted to reconcile in the previous government coalition with the opposition that this would not be the topic of a government coalition, but that this would be the topic of members of the National Assembly and of the whole country as well. This time it's not. It has been said that a new law is being drawn up, that it is a new concept, and there are significant differences in this new concept vis-à-vis the old concept. The most important difference is that it will be a concept where you will not be able to say that it is a concept of the National Assembly, but only a government coalition. It seems not even a government coalition, but a government coalition. After this new concept, there will be no control and no transparency. That is how you have been used to, at least those political parties that have mostly participated at this time also in the authorities and have actively led the country's policy. The fact is, unfortunately, some people change their hair like a bear if you're in the opposition or if you're in a coalition, which is not pleasant, and in the first place it's not state-of-the-art. As regards how in this concept we have prepared both the Holding Act and then the entire strategy. That conceptual changes were so great, DeSUS also noticed after all this time, and thank God that he also rightly pointed to this. What was happening immediately after the government changed, when the management of state property went to the Court at the time of the change of supervisory councils and then of management, was also recorded in a newspaper where it was written that interested hunters, who had been involved in the establishment of the Supervisory Council and then the administration of the Court, had left a seal on the whole of the dirty political kitchen. Now I'm at the point where some people can imagine how terribly transparent the AUKN was when they were the leading force. No one interfered in the AUKN, he was completely sovereign, and so on — far from that, it is not true. Only one example of the recapitalisation of New Credit Bank Maribor with money Mail, with money from Drava Power Plants, with money from ELES and money from Gen Energy, almost EUR 50 million. In what way? In a way that Minister Franci Križanič simply ordered it. If this was political, transparent, and if this was a dream of how to manage state property - of course for some it was a dream indeed. Where did that 50 million go? If we didn't spend it there, we wouldn't need a property tax like you made it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are afraid of such a part of the government coalition, which speaks so much about state property in such a way and is willing to continue working for such a Slovenia. Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, what does it mean to sell and air transport the government around the global capitals, where some of these companies offer, possibly Telekom for 600, Petrol for 400, Insurance Triglav for half a billion, Airport for 100? How much is all of this if we add it up? About a billion and a half. What is President Alenka Bratušek actually doing? It would be better if I studied with my finance minister, who, on Friday and Saturday, snaps his fingers and takes a billion and a half euros of credit. This means that if you sell all of this, it's about a billion and a half, and it's like a billion and a half -- covertly, without transparency, in line with the strategy you have. This means without control and without transparency. That's something some people can earn. Who's that? The ones that are so far. How's that? In a non-transparent way. Who are they? Mostly those whose wealth has increased in the last year. That's certainly not the 7% who lost their jobs. Here I think they lost their jobs when unemployment increased or they didn't get it. There aren't 140 or 150 thousand citizens and citizens who don't go to work. Such a way, an untransparent way, is certainly one of the easier ways, it is to avoid responsibility, even before Brussels, and to maintain sovereignty. But in front of who? Before the government, not the sovereignty of our people. And sovereignty before responsibility, because otherwise citizens and citizens should be held accountable and should not be able to fish in this way. What are we waiting for? Given that we have over €30 billion of debt in banks, credits that the budget debt is greater than €20 billion – 20 billion is about one good Clio or maybe a little less, but in about six months it will be all Megane. Who's gonna be in charge of all of Megan? Even those today or who will be born in this country tomorrow. Since we have some other assets you'd like to sell out, I wonder what we can do to stop you. Because it's a disaster and you're taking us into a national disaster because you're doing nothing but grave the rest of the state's assets. At the end of all this, when we are completely bare and naked, what will happen? What it says in Saturday’s Evening Meal, how after three years threes in Greece shut down hospitals, how not to smoke in hospitals, how not to pay nurses, doctors and so on. Unfortunately, all of this awaits us, since we will have nothing left in our hands at that time. You're gonna waste everything. Do you know how many times citizens say, "Let's make a deal and do something together?" This is the point, and I hope that the wisdom of MEPs and DeSUS Members is at a higher level and that they have drawn so much out of this wisdom that they will not simply leave it to you. It's the only hope. Colleagues and colleagues, this way you prepare and work, intransparency and without control, is completely unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Ludmila Novak, and Mr Marko Pavlisic is preparing for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. We have found many times that the country is unfortunately a bad owner, a bad owner of state property, but that I will not do wrong: not in all cases. There are also examples of responsible people in the cities and of responsible people working with state property. So we wouldn't throw everyone in the same basket. Unfortunately, this state property has been used many times for its own interests, to fill our own pockets, as we all know, and so do reports of corruption in our country. We worked together on the Slovenian State Holding Act. We all remember how a meeting was convened with the previous Prime Minister, how each party named the working group, that we thought together that the appointed experts had thought together about how they would finalize this law in order to get a good law. It is a shame that in the report we sent to Brussels, we have written down that we have the Slovenian State Holding Act on paper. Now this holding company isn't working. State property is not managed economically, which is exactly what we wanted to do with this law. However, citizens are not interested in whether we will have a law after this or a different formula, but citizens are interested in how state property will be managed, whether the state will benefit from this or whether the taxpayers will have to fill various holes in this state property again. I do not understand why the same parties that had such clear requirements, how the opposition must be involved in the supervisory councils, on the other hand, are now doing the opposite, on the other hand. To be credible, we must have the same criteria, the same criteria when we are in the government and when we are in the opposition. These criteria must, however, be that people have to be professional, responsible and that they must primarily do their job well so that political qualifications do not come first. I am also concerned when the President of the Government offers our assets at various conferences across Europe and the world. Why am I worried? Because I know that investors first look at the state of the country where they want to invest, how the judiciary works, whether legal certainty is guaranteed for their assets, what taxes, what labour is like. We certainly have the advantage here, because our workforce is qualified. People can work, they want to work, and they don't have a chance. This is our comparative advantage. Unfortunately, we have not yet successfully completed other tasks. That is why I fear that investors, especially speculators, will come to buy our assets cheaply and will want to win the market where our producers export. I am afraid that this will not be serious investors who will continue to want to produce something in a particular company or who will want to maintain jobs, pay taxes and so on. We want honest, good investors, who will come only when they feel that there is a proper environment for us to come to us and invest their capital here and work on it. And we don't have bad experiences. I would be delighted to see that there would be more Slovenians who would have fairly acquired capital and could invest in these companies. Unfortunately, many have taken him elsewhere, and unfortunately there are few who would actually invest in Slovenia even in the future. We can't throw everyone in the same basket again. Thank God we have companies, honest entrepreneurs, who have come to the property with their own work, who are working carefully with their property. Recently, a number of people have warned me about the damage they are doing to their apartments because of banks, loans. All the settlements are empty, building permits are failing, some of the apartments are even demolished, all the assembly houses are taken away and similar things. Here too, we are known to work irresponsiblely with our assets. Today's debate has shown that we do not have the right strategy. The new Slovenia – Christian Democrats have already been proposed to the President of the National Assembly, and I know that he is also inclined to do so. We have also discussed this with the President of the country, and the presidents of some of the parties have expressed their appreciation for our proposal to set up a committee in the National Assembly to think about the future of Slovenia, the future development, the strategy not only for one government mandate, but in the long term, what we want, what are those projects that we want to carry out in the long term. I think that this is exactly the kind of long-term vision that we are lacking, and that is why we are doing something from tomorrow to tomorrow, as opportunities currently show, and we do not have a vision of what we want to do with this country, with our assets, where we want to get out of the crisis, and so on. The charges against each other won't help either. Unfortunately, we have a lot of corruption, and I am convinced that not only in one party or another, that corruption does not know customer affiliation, that people who do not know responsible conduct who have lost their sense of honesty can be found in one party or another, old or new. The reputation of Members and of the National Assembly will certainly improve when we condemn acts irrespective of who they come from, and this also applies to cases where we put in various interpretations with obvious evidence of corruption, but some are moving or closing their eyes. Once again, the Committee on the Future of Slovenia in the National Assembly could certainly help to improve the strategy on what we want in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u30	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the word, too. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I would just like to respond briefly to some of the statements that we have witnessed in the previous discussions on ad hoc management of state property on the basis of an existing regime without concept or without control and in a non-transparent way. I would like to point out in total that the Slovenian State Holding Act does indeed provide for the transfer of ownership of State property to the Slovenian State Holding and provides for the submission of a classification and management strategy to the National Assembly, but at the same time, the transitional and final provisions also provide for procedures under which state property is managed during the period until the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding and until the transfer of ownership of State property to that company. The management of State assets, as is the case in the current situation, and the management carried out by the Slovenian Compensation Company as an authorised company under the current SDH Act, runs on the basis and in accordance with the transitional provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act. In accordance with these provisions, a list of companies has also been submitted to the National Assembly, for which we propose that privatisation or disposal should begin immediately, but at the same time I must point out that the proposal for a new Slovenian State Holding Act – if we consider all the maximum periods, may take up to 9 months to fully revive, but we know that these maximum deadlines are only rarely actually reached in the legislative process. As a rule, debates in the legislative process are much faster. For this reason, we expect that the Slovenian State Holding could be established on the basis of a proposal for a law that I expect the National Assembly to begin discussions in January and can be implemented within about half a year. It recalls the lack of transparency or corruption in State property management procedures, while at the same time objecting to the provisions of the proposal for a law setting out the Commissioner for Business Compliance and Integrity and to certain other provisions that increase liability both for SDH and for companies that are in SDH management. On the one hand, it is proposed or requested that the policy withdraw from the management of state assets and that the management procedures be left to experts in the first place and, on the other hand, to the supervisory board of SDH, politicians or members of the National Assembly. However, I must say that the new bill also provides for political control, as the members of the Supervisory Board will be appointed by the National Assembly, and that the National Assembly may at any time exercise all the powers it has under the rules of procedure, either as a whole, or as a whole, as a working body of the National Assembly, to exercise control over the appropriateness of the operation of both the State authorities and SDH in relation to the management of State property. Finally, SDH itself must report to the National Assembly at least once a year on the management of state assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u32	Thank you very much. More mag. Marko Pogačnik and then Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u33	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. A very brief comment on the Secretary of State's words. I think it was misunderstood. We do not oppose the provision of anti-corruption clauses, the declaration of property, the control of property, the status and the establishment of the function of the business compliance officer. We simply point out that it is likely that these provisions are over-reformed in order to shorten them in order to make it clear that the management of the company is subject to the provisions applicable to all public officials. That's what we were talking about. Read the law, and you will see that the person who is supposed to be responsible for the compliance of business in the law itself devotes significantly more substantive matters than the administration and the supervisory board. Now we wonder who will run this holding company — the administration, the supervisory board, or this person will be the one who will manage the state property. Just do it. In the Supervisory Council, we only pointed out the inadvisability of the current President of the Government, who at the time demanded that the opposition have three representatives in the Supervisory Council, and today there is not one. That's all we've ever warned you about. We have also drawn attention to matters for which we estimate that there is a risk that management and privatisation can take place in a non-transparent manner, respected Secretary of State. Where is the promise or assurance that at these investment conferences held days ago, you have not made any promise that you will put the company on the sale process and then the National Assembly will reject it? This is what we want to achieve – that before you go to investment conferences, you accept the classification, the strategy when there is a consensus and the green light for privatisation. I don't think we can repeat things when we've already sold something in our pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič, Mr Jerko Čehovin, and Mr Mikhael Prevc is also preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the management of state-owned enterprises or the management of enterprises in general, it is good to look at the existing experience of professional operators. Before I became an MP, I worked for a larger international company. There was one interesting thing, once a quarter was so called 'earnings call'. What does that mean? This means that a conference has been set up, investors interested in it have joined, larger funds, banks and others, and the management has given its perspective on what has been happening in the last quarter and what is planned for the next quarter or for the next period. Investors then asked interesting and nasty questions: "Three months ago you predicted this. Is this fulfilled this year?" "That's when you promised. Is this promise fulfilled?" This is how professional companies are managed. I must admit that prior to each of these "earnings call" in the company there was some positive boiling because they knew that these questions would be asked because they knew what promises had been made, and because they knew that they would be seen to see whether these promises had been fulfilled. That's what happens when an enterprise is run by a professional. How does this work when Slovenia manages its state assets? More or less it all begins and ends with some people taking their chairs along a line, and here's the end until these people replace someone else with some other chairs, but in between virtually no one manages these companies. That's why we have the result we have. Here we have to ask ourselves whether this is a better way or a better way is the second time that citizens expect of us and in whose interest Members are acting. Which of these solutions will we defend? In the Civil Gazette, we always act in the interest of citizens. A company owned by the State may also be well managed if these management procedures were in order. But here we cannot go beyond what practice tells us, what is the experience of the last 20 years on 45 years of basis? Are these experiences good or bad? I'm saying that they're bad, that the current management isn't good. Rather than allowing Slovenian parade horses to parade abroad, investment abroad is used primarily to launder money so that various friends of the property of citizens and countries can pump into their private pockets. That's how the government's silver is getting pale and brown. We also need to look at the practice of today's meeting candidates. Already on the committee, a opposition colleague mentioned the sale of Telekom and the plan for the sale of Telekom in 2005 and 2006. That's when it started. Let's see what's eight years later. Telekom's still on the sales list. I'm sorry, mate, but you didn't make it then. I'm saying I'm sorry, but I don't know if that's what you think. During the same period, there was also an opportunity for NLB to sell the NKBM, another quarter, if I recall correctly. And that's not what happened. It was a promise to do it, but it didn't. At that time it is also this blackening of the reputation of Slovenia abroad, which you are afraid of today. I believe that we have in the National Assembly, as well as a broader consensus in society, that we are on the path of Austria, Germany and the Netherlands as regards the administration of state property, and not on the path of North Korea, Cuba or Venezuela. Why the Dutch? You probably all remember KLM, it's a Dutch national carrier. In fact, he is no longer a Dutch national carrier. He was once, and he was sold a few years ago. And they didn't wonder whether this made the Netherlands any less a country because it doesn't have its own flagship carrier, or not. They just sold it, and they sold it when they got their profits. Unfortunately, in Adrio, we're still drawing money, or finally, if I remember correctly, two years ago. Why did I mention Venezuela? Because they have democratic socialism there. If you have been paying attention to what is happening in this democratic socialism, you have noticed the news that the state has recently taken control of the producers of toilet paper. Why? Just because he's run out. Before we focus on this disaster of Venezuelan democratic socialism, let us ask ourselves whose property Paloma is and why it is still in state ownership. The SDS is surprised to see the Prime Minister abroad. This is explained by their fear of the credibility of Slovenia if we do not go from words to actions again. In fact, I am concerned that they are concerned that the Prime Minister is successful in this way. And I'll be even more concerned if this is feared by someone in the current coalition. We are not afraid of this in the Civil Gazette, and we will do everything in our power to take a strong step forward in this area for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. The new SDH proposal is going this way, and I expect us all to support it together. If there was no willingness last year to find some consensus and come up with a solution together, we can do it this year. It's your decision. This law came to the National Assembly following a regular procedure and not by some urgent procedure, which means it will be much slower adopted, but it also gives the opportunity to improve it further so that it will be even better. Your decision, dear colleagues, is whether your intentions are sincere and you will participate in whether or not you will be suing. This is entirely your decision. Respected colleagues, Christian Democrats – I congratulate you on this move – I personally welcome and support your idea of the Committee on the Future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have no doubt that every political force in this House has the opportunity to propose to deal with any of those that seem important and necessary. Even with regard to the topic that we are dealing with today, I do not mind if it has been proposed, but I must say that we seriously doubt the intentions resulting from the input of this material. In fact, we all know that the Government of the Fifth of this month has adopted the Act on Slovenian State Holding and has sent it to the National Assembly. The president asked certain supplements and put some deadlines for the government to complete this. The law is introduced by regular procedure, which means that we will deal with it at least three times and that it will go through all committees. So far, everything is nice and good, but I cannot agree with the level of debate and the individual statements that follow from no material, but they only sum up what we would like to see, not what happened or what happened in the past. In advance, something is predicted, it is suspected, it explains how untransparent everything is, how the Prime Minister of the Government goes on tourist trips and so on. Thank God, it would be good if these trips were sooner and that something could also be sold from this list. The following non-truth or claim that does not correspond to the truth is about the sale of these 14 companies and one bank. The Slovenian State Holding Act provides for a transitional regime for the disposal, disposal until the classification is in place. In this transitional regime, the National Assembly, the same National Assembly, also decided to sell these 14 companies and one bank. Of this – you know this well, at least those who want to know – were for 5 companies, Adria Airways, Aero d. d., Elan d. o.o., Photona d. d. and already sold Helios, the proceedings started by others, not this coalition, but this coalition after the takeover of power has only been summarized and placed on the list of these 5 companies. And she added the other nine, both of them. If today the President of the Government is performing abroad and is trying to organise these conferences in style, as formerly esteemed colleague Pavlisic spoke of some other conferences, it is only to say hello. It cannot be ridiculed if it is also intended to tell foreign and foreign markets clearly that we want certain movements in this area as well. I believe that in this country the problem is not just the form of property. Property is inherently inert, does not generate any income, whether it is state or social or private or cooperative or whatever. The property is beautified by people, from managers to workers, with their activities and work. This gives added value to this. That's why no one has ever convinced me that it's just privatisation that will solve all our problems. That's not true. I am personally advocating some kind of compromise. It is clear that the country has nothing to do in classical manufacturing companies, especially where we have shares that are still the remains of former social property, between 7% and 10% – it does not have a qualified share. That's too bad it hasn't been sold by now. There are some other activities where the dominant state property must also be maintained. When we talk about the fact that the West doesn't know state property – that's not true. The previous reference was made to Norway, the representative of the applicants mentioned it. Norway has 53 state-owned companies with which it works well, and it does not even think of selling them. All these well-managed companies with fair, responsible management and responsible people acting, as well as other normal stakeholders, such as unions and so on, generate profits, which is then an integral part of the repayment of debts or goes into the budget. This fundamental misunderstanding, this SDH – is unjustifiablely attributed to our party that we are against it, but that is not true. We have made it very clear in the electoral programme that the management of state assets or of all state investments must be combined under one roof, not that we have, as now, five managers, five supervisory boards, five groups of such or other lobbyists in the background, acting in one way or another. I think we also need to break through some stereotypes as to the fact that policy representatives must be in these supervisory councils under the spoil-sharing system. Therefore, I am not convinced by these questions why there is no opposition representatives in this law. I think that there must be no opposition or coalition in the law, but that it must be made clear that it must be for professional asset managers, not for political personnel. It is this too much intervention and demand for economic policy that has led us, among other things, to the situation that is being resolved. When you made this proposal with the fact that you didn't know at the time that the government would accept it – I understand that, but I understand that, especially as your intention to block the wedge during the coalition because we all know from the genetics of the individual parties who are in this House that almost every party has a different attitude towards the administration of state property. Perhaps someone has fallen for it, and is trying in some way to represent their negotiating positions, if I may say so, until this law arises. As it is said, this law goes on a regular basis. There will be plenty of time to think carefully about it. I understand this experiment more personally than a prologue or an overture or even some foreplay into the complete thing, and it seems to me that we are wasting time, especially because there are no conclusions and conclusions proposed. As they used to say, we steal time and money from ourselves and from God.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc is next to have a word. I'm sorry, but Mr Pogačnik is still here on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u39	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Because there are no conclusions here today, the coalition is responsible for rejecting them on the Finance Committee. We have proposed recommendations. Then I would also mention that if someone introduces a policy into the Supervisory Board, it is introduced by the last draft of the SDH Act, which, in fact, gives the Minister of Finance and the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances to the Supervisory Board without voting rights. In our proposal, the opposition representative was elected on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances. That means they choose someone who fits the criteria. And you put direct politics in there. The problem that we are putting forward is just what you said in your own words, Sir Chehovin, how this procedure of law will proceed. Public debate – this means that we will probably confirm it in the National Assembly sometime in March. Then again we have transitional provisions, and due to this dynamic, Slovenia will not be able to sell strategy, without classification, and not foreign investors or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will not know what Slovenia will sell and what will be strategic of Slovenia. Tell me how you would feel, Mr Chehovin, if you were the President of the Petrol or Krka administration or a member of the Supervisory Board and did not know what would happen to your company. How will you prepare an effective strategy? Or would you be the chairman of the board of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, which has investments to settle its obligations? Only what we are stressing here is that this gap is empty, which exposes the great risk that management will not be effective, and that there is a risk that privatisation procedures will not be successfully completed. Just do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u41	I would only reply to the representative of the applicants that if he were the director of Petrol, he would normally do his job because it is not his job to deal with property, but to make a profit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the word, then the mag. Andrej Vizjak, behind him, is Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the management of state property, and it is right that we are talking about this subject, but unfortunately it is too late. The fact is that we have very poor experience and poor results in Slovenia today, as opposed to developed Europe, as regards the management of state property. On the other hand, state-owned companies, especially those that do not have some kind of monopoly position, are becoming increasingly competitive over the years, not to mention banks that are practically on their knees. Unfortunately, in the past, no government has embarked on an organised and structured concept of asset management with a strategic view in advance. I'm afraid that's never happened. We can say that the first attempt to change the solution proposed by the Borut Pahor government in the form of the so-called Capital Investment Management Agency was. We know that this organization has not proved successful. Why didn't she turn out to be a success? Simply because it obviously failed to resolve the influence of politics. Therefore, the coalition, in which we also participated members of the Slovenian People's Party, began to prepare a legislative basis for a new management concept, for centralised management of state property in one place and for a very clear purpose, which is that once and for all it would be necessary to determine what we will do as a state with long-term assets and to definitively define what strategic property is for Slovenia. Ongoing control of state assets is therefore very important. If we just remember how the adoption of the SDH Act was carried out as a concept of centralised governance. To prepare the law, as we know, a special team of MPs and experts from individual coalition parties, as well as the opposition, who met and drank and improved the law several times. As we know, it was also attended by current Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. Despite long-standing coordination, we have heard accusations of the robbery of the century and treason by the Social Democrats on the one hand, and on the other hand, even a referendum request has been submitted to the SDH Law with the signatures of the Members of the Positive Slovenia. Even before that, the current Prime Minister of the Government has conditioned the withdrawal of the referendum initiative by giving the opposition more seats in the SDH supervisory council. In February 2013, the previous government sent to the National Assembly a classification of state investments, which we coordinated within the coalition, but unfortunately the new coalition did not try to fix, it did not try to change, but simply rejected. We have a new law on SDH on the table. He's very different from ours. The most interesting part is the composition of the Supervisory Board. After the President of the Government, as I have already said, demanded more supervisors in SDH last year, proposed by the opposition, unfortunately, she has forgotten that. This means that this law will not be transparent, and we are interested in [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u45	Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I think the key question at this extraordinary meeting is whether the coalition wants better governance of state property at all. Does the current coalition want more efficient and transparent governance of state property? I also mean that the current coalition will give up the temptation to enroll in various companies and with these and other ratings that follow. Does he want a more transparent privatisation, and does he even want privatisation? These are fundamental questions for me, and I must tell you that I have many doubts arising from your actions, a respected coalition that says you do not want to. I will continue to state these fundamental reasons and your behaviour over the years and months that lead me to scepticism that you do not want to. Firstly, one of the prime ministers, Mr Omerzel, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, is trying to get his staff into energy at every step, and he says so shamelessly. At a number of energy gatherings where directors are present, he shamelessly says that the time has come for his year, for his people, for their era to come, and for them to say goodbye – well, that's what I added, he doesn't say. This is what Mr Omerzel is telling the directors of energy companies. And there are many temptations in some area. Then, in particular, Positive Slovenia, as well as other coalition parties, blocked the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act within the mandate of the former Government, which means that it would have entered into force first. It has also blocked and rejected the classification of investments and the management guidelines with these investments, which are expected to introduce significantly greater transparency and also a clear picture of how it will be managed and how it will move away from the economy in the future. All of this was rejected. Minister Cuffer, the competent minister, said he was coming with a new law on SDH in June this year. We are here in December, six months after the government was able to send a disability law to Parliament, which was rejected by the President of the National Assembly if there is not at all all the necessary components, in particular the financial consequences. And it is true, it has no financial implications, because it says that SDH will also have state assets at its disposal. Here I ask the Secretary of State as the first Minister, the Prime Minister, walks abroad and sells these 15 companies, whether or not he has funds for the privatisation of Telekom. Privatization of Telekom will cost a lot. Careful reviews, such or different, financial, legal ones, should be made and valuations should be made and so on. It'll cost you. It will also have to pay the intermediaries who are for it, and it will probably not be the only company, but it will be some bank and so on. I wonder if the state budget has money for this. Will this come from a reserve designed for natural disasters and similar things that cannot be predicted? Here you can anticipate these things, and it would probably be right to serve with information on how much funding you anticipate in the 2014 budget to cover the costs of privatising these 15 companies and perhaps another one that we do not know about today, but you know. The fact that this law came half a year late to Parliament or before the door of Parliament and that it had already been rejected by the President is also a sign that you have major problems with these solutions, conceptually likely, but also when we are talking about individual provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act. I believe that this is an additional argument that it is not willing to do things at all but to make them transparent and effective. If you wanted transparent privatisations and privatisations in general, then you would probably not have been satisfied with the classification that the previous government sent to Parliament and you in Parliament, a respected coalition, would have rejected, proposed something new at that time, not some list of 15 companies that are far from what some classification by law should be. We have been hiding in the transitional provisions of the current SDH Act for almost a year now. There is no new law, and as proposed by Mr Pogačnik, by the middle of next year, given the timing you have chosen, it does not appear that the new law would be in force. This is an additional argument that you really don't mean it today and you don't want it at all. In my opinion, however, the most worrying is some political diametricity of views on the issue of the sale of state property. When we followed the statements made by Mr Luksic, the President of the Social Democrats, the privatisation was very slow. The President of Parliament, here in attendance, has characterized these experiments as theft of property and as high treason. May I remind you, my fellow Members, that we did not succeed in selling the majority stake in Telekom in 2008, why did we fail? I was the secretary responsible for these procedures myself at the time. This was not done by the Court at the time, and we did so in accordance with the Law on Public Finance and Under-Laws. Finally, there was a political disagreement with the initial agreement. I recall that we reached agreement in the then coalition on this privatisation. For all, the then New Slovenia, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the then Desus and the Slovenian People's Party. When the procedure dragged on for one and a half years, unfortunately, because this procedure takes too long – I hope that it will now go more effectively under the Court of Justice – they cancelled their support for this project at the end when the buyer was known for three times the current price on the stock exchange. Both DeSUS and the Slovenian People's Party said, "We will not sell this," at the end when it was all over and when we were making international tenders when they applied and so on. Now, Your Honor, I ask you who will believe in you on such statements by one important coalition partner that you will do this and that you will end up selling something. I don't believe this because in the end it will come back to some detail – you will find, under the pretext that the offer is not real and you will not sell. That's why I think these are fundamental questions. This extraordinary meeting is also intended for you to ask yourself whether you have a unified political view of more efficient and transparent governance and thus to sell off the shares of state-owned enterprises. I think there are several arguments that this is not an argument that it is. You know, these are very sensitive things, because these customers who are coming will not invest energy and effort in such a process, because such a process costs a lot and also time, and in the end a person with the sense of some deception goes away when politics is put on its side. This happened in 2008, in another government, but one coalition partner is the same. Even today, in this electoral system and in this power relationship, one can stop everything, because you know it threatens: listen, if you sell to Telekom, we're going out of the coalition. And the phones will ring to the director and SDH supervisors that you will place on your proposal: listen, it's a problem. We can all think about how they will then evaluate that offer and so on. The justification is more than enough to need, for the first time, one consensus, particularly the coalition – in the opposition, we do not need to look for it, since we have included this in all our electoral programmes so far, we are taking this step and have never given up support for the withdrawal of the country from the economy in such a way that, when the price is maximised, the strategic partner who will invest in developing an economic society will continue to be jobs in order to develop, not least, that they will be better wages. We've already proved that we know how to do that. You have criticized this many times, but the privatisation of the Slovenian steel industry has proved that something can also be done. Thank God it was done in the middle of the term, and then no one gave a stick to tickle. We've already proven that we can do this. And that is why you need, a respected coalition – and this meeting today is also intended for this call – for the first time, political unity. Is that what you want, and especially, do you want to give up the temptation to continue to recruit and crush the Slovenian economy? And of course, you should adopt the necessary documents as soon as possible, which the laws provide that the matter will be transparent, that it will be clear not only to you but also to those interested in buying these shares. I hope that, for the second time, you will be able to send a properly equipped law to Parliament so that you will not experience such a fiasco in this law that Parliament or the President of Parliament, who belongs in the coalition sphere, has to reject the Government's proposals because of the shortcomings of the annexes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Mr Plevčak is behind him and Mr Ivan Vogrin is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. We are once again witnessing a 7-hour extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, of course at the request of the SDS. Isn't this the scream and scream you told us at the beginning of today's session that we once started shouting and screaming? Of course, the call for an extraordinary meeting is a legitimate right of the opposition, and this right in this mandate is extremely exploited, and that is not good. The opposition's wish is to convince the population in the country that the state's collapse is finally ahead of us, but the Social Democrats do not want to participate. There's a general debate today. We could talk about this anywhere, and there will be no great benefit. I repeat, we Social Democrats are forced to play this game and to convince and prove that we are in favour of the fair management of state property, that we are in this situation particularly vulnerable to the extent of corruption in the country and that, therefore, this law and the implementation of this law will be particularly subject to strong scrutiny. The proof is, for example, that we Social Democrats opposed the abolition of the AUKN, which finally began to work successfully in some start-up period and was in the way of really everyone. To get back to SDK's other area. If the SDK had a few years back in life, there would be a lot less injustice for workers who did not have the contribution rates paid and so on, but that is not entirely in this context. We have now passed the State Holding Act. We are aware that we have a great responsibility because this is a huge amount of money. The opposition should also be aware of this and not only oppose and give some samples. I heard earlier: the sale of the Slovenian steel industry. My dear fellow, don't mention it. I was with the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in a closed room. Please be quiet. This really isn't a pattern. He also sells Mercator at Janšev's office. Alenka Bratušek, President of the Government, does not go after, I don't know, Paris, Düsseldorf, Milan and Moscow, which you keep reading to her today, and you only read it out of jealousy or Slovenian foss. Don't go selling. He's not selling anything. He can't sell anything. These times are over. At the time it was sold, I mentioned two variants. But he comes to offer our knowledge, to seek investors and so on, because others do not, and do not be jealous. We will see, but perhaps the results of these trips and these arrangements will be desired by another government. But it's no big deal, it's for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Once again, he's not selling anything, and calm down. I must also say that there is a law in preparation that has been discussed today, which will come to the National Assembly in January, that the bill is coalitionly coordinated, but today we can fight in any way that our coalition talks are extremely difficult, logical, because everyone has their own head. Because we don't have one cap that tells the others to vote quietly and go home. We coordinate, we convince, we have different views, but the thing is coalitionly coordinated and will work. If the Supervisory Board provides for the Minister of Finance and the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, it is clear that the Minister of Coalition is the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances from the opposition and the matter is clear. By replacing the government, however the elections turn out, this thing turns out. We don't write that Mr. Minister Cufer will be president of this commission until his death. You know, doing some law work on some criteria because today this person and this person are in position, and God forbid that he has a word, is a mistake. This was done when they adopted certain laws and constitutions when Kučan was president of the country, and because he was president of the country, they were competences of zero. There'll be someone else tomorrow, and there'll be someone else and there'll be someone else. In democratic countries these things don't change that way because once there's Tone and once there's Pepi. That's not what this is about. I think that we are on the right track, that it will not be easy, that much will have to be negotiated, and gold would be worth helping the opposition in all these matters. I think today's debate is friendly and without great, insane benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u48	Thank you very much. He's got a mag replica first. Vizjak, then Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The opposition wants to help you. That is why we want you to come with the documents as soon as possible to fulfill your promises. Mr Cufer promised that he would bring the SDH Act to Parliament as early as June this year, but we waited until the disabled one, and we still can't deal with it, because, as I say, it had no financial implications and the President of Parliament rejected it and sent it back to supplementation. We would like to help and we would be very happy if you could come to Parliament with the documents you should come with, i.e. with classification and guidelines, in accordance with the law. Or with some other documents provided by the new law. Just come to Parliament for God's sake, not press your inactivity through the list of some companies and some transitional provisions, Mr Brulc. So much for the eyesight and request for the help of the opposition. The opposition is very much in favour of helping you do this, but only if you want to do it transparently and if you want to do it effectively, which is what I express a certain fear. I also replicate because of your statement that I should not mention the Slovenian steel industry. Firstly, the sale process of the Slovenian steel industry was transparent. All interested were invited to tender, because the number of companies is limited, because we know that steel is not dealt with as much as it would, I don't know, buy, say, apples on the market. It is a very limited number of multinationals who can be interested. The invitation to tender was published in the Financial Times. Some of the applicants showed up, and the one who offered the best conditions far, far better, but far better conditions, both in terms of price and in terms of other commitments, after keeping jobs, after investing in production. It's been seven years now. Since then, a few hundred million euro invested in the Slovenian industry has been used for modernisation. The Slovenian steel industry has also taken over some steel companies in Italy, which means that this system is growing and that all commitments are being fulfilled, so I am saying that this is a good example. If you found a mistake or anything you say in that quiet room, there would probably be an investigation into those responsible for the sale. And I, at the time, was a minister, I don't know about any procedure, which means that the matter was probably not as controversial or problematic as you mentioned. Therefore, once again, the big question would be where the Slovenian steel industry would be today if we did not do so if the strategic partner did not enter the ownership structure and, through this greater power, ensure further functioning. It seems to me that this important Slovenian system would also be picked up in the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u50	I'm afraid there's no replica to the replica. Here you go. Magi's proponent. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u51	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Brultz said, "Help us, cooperate." I'd like to ask: why don't you invite us to make a marriage? We'd be happy to help you. During the time of the government of Janez Janš, we invited you to join us. I think that professional, correct proposals and comments from your participants have also helped to make this law, which is now in force, better in the end. We're ready. And this call for an extraordinary session – we are not blocking anything today. You bring the law to Parliament, you vote it, and it'll be fine. You don't need the opposition to do that. This shows that the problems are not the opposition, but the coalition. I'm sure you're on very different shores in this marriage. This has also been seen from today’s viewpoints. We have always said that it is welcome for the President of the Government to promote Slovenia abroad, at investment conferences, but we are skeptical as to whether the path is right. Above all, I am surprised that you, as a member of the SD, who is only the proposal of the government of Janez Janša to start the process of selling one investment, have been labeled a major betrayal and theft of the century, are now supporting this when, without the consent of the National Assembly, without the clear strategy of the Government and indemnity company are likely to offer the entire assets at investment conferences. I know we have a list of these companies, but, Madam Secretary of State, don't convince me that Milan, Moscow, Paris, Düsseldorf is offering an Economic Exhibition and Palomo. You say that interest in Slovenian companies is enormous, from Luke Koper, Aerodrome, Adrie Airways to Energy. Thank God, we will support this because we are aware that it is necessary to move on to foreign investments and that Slovenian companies that will be selling in sales places need to be provided with a buyer that will allow for further development and create new jobs. I think Milano, Paris, Düsseldorf and Moscow are the right places. Yes, but something's missing. Low classification and strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, the procedures for selling state assets that are under way run on the basis of the list of 15 companies approved by the National Assembly. There is no information and no information which may be provided by the applicant or which I could confirm that the President of the Government on business trips to investment conferences abroad offers anything else for sale. This is speculation that must be rejected. We all know what is the formal procedure for the sale of state property under the current SDH Act. However, if Slovenia is presented as a potential for investors at investment conferences, this does not mean that sales procedures relating to state assets are conducted in an untransparent and illegal manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marija Plevčak has the word to prepare the mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll be brief because you've already heard my explanation or the position of our party. We still believe that the Slovenian State Holding Act should be adopted as soon as possible. I have already asked myself at a meeting of the Finance Committee why the current government does not have the right law that the previous government has drawn up and why we cannot not only fix this law, but generally correct those things in laws that are inappropriate, which the ruling coalition seems unacceptable. This would probably be significantly easier than if we were discussing again from the place, wasting time and money in this regard. There's something else I have to say. At the beginning of my term of office, I was very skeptical or against the sale of state property, but things have led so far that this matter must also be carried out. However, this must be done transparently, on the basis of all the strategies and management needed, and with the appropriate supervisory committee or board to control these implementations, because there is still some sense in all these matters that there is still some interest in the political structures behind. That is why I think that in this area we need to make clear and clear demands, controls, and that transparency must be what we need to be in order not to have doubts about every matter we sell, about what happened to it, about who here cashed something, who got some percentages, commissions and so on. Time, I must say, is not our ally. We see the situation, the bad condition of our finances. We'll feel this especially when we find out what the situation is in our banks. Things are serious, and I think it would be necessary to take the matter seriously and with all responsibility to resolve these things, to definitely bring those with more experience to the rescue, and to bring the matter as soon as possible to the place or to the green one, to know that the law will work as it should, to keep the law active and to take a step forward, not as it has been for one year, but that nothing has moved on significantly. I hope that the Government will also make sure that things change or correct things that were wrong and that we can discuss the new law as soon as possible, it will be acceptable for us both in our Group of Members and for all the other Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask for your help. And if I could still cash in one of the jokers, I'd ask TV viewers for help. I'll explain the situation. I don't know how to solve these puzzles. A working group was formed in mid-2012 to draft the Slovenian State Holding Act. It included representatives of all parliamentary parties. I feel that I was also invited, and I sat next to Alenka Bratušek and Peter Kraljič when we were making marriage. The law achieved its verification, and we considered that I, Mrs Bratušek, and so on, that the law was inadequate, because one or two members of the Supervisory Board would be affected by the opposition. I strongly opposed it, and I explicitly said that the opposition must appoint four members and five should rule because it would be a kind of fair relationship. We couldn't agree on that, so I made a 30th vote to call for a legislative referendum. I have earned great disdain for the current opposition, fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues, but I think I have acted honestly because I have acted on my conscience. I also met with the then prime minister, John Janša. I didn't do it because I thought it was the right thing to do. Now look at the current situation. We are now proposing a new law by which the government appoints five members of the Supervisory Board. Dear colleagues, what has changed since then? At that time, they should be appointed by an absolute majority and the opposition, even in the position of the current Prime Minister, should have a significantly greater influence, but now it does not need to have it. Help me understand what's changed. I don't know how to solve these puzzles. Perhaps the viewers and the viewers will know, because Mrs Maria Ferlič of Duplek – too bad that there is no Mr Ribič – is a 90-year-old lady and told a specific member of the post to see him speak one and vote another. My people, there's something very wrong with us, because once the power is changed, we lose all the restraints of decency. We're being rude if we're defending this today and tomorrow we're defending another. This country is where it is, because of it. Now tell me how to feel like the one who contributed the 30th signature, and I very much believed that the opposition then had very fair intentions to get a balanced law. Now it's completely different, ladies and gentlemen. Is it true that we have to plunder and impoverish this Slovenia for 20 years? Is this what we have to do, or could we avoid it? If possible: 6 members of the Supervisory Board, opposition 3, position 3, and then we must seek agreement. If we started doing this, we would have at least a minimum chance of getting out of the crisis. Slovenia is supposed to be a friendly destination. It's babbling. One of the most successful innovators, Akrapovič, said: "Because abroad they have twice the net salary for the same gross salary, our engineers are leaving and will not save us anything but creation and greater added value." I've experienced all this. You try it, and maybe you'll make a different choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr. Joseph Horvath and the Magi. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u59	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello to you all! In the discussions of the coalition Members and Members in particular, it is a nuisance, or even a denial, of this well-meaning request to convene this meeting. Somehow they're trying to convince the public here that calling this meeting is a bad move, a bad purpose, throwing sand into a bicycle, blocking the procedure, and we could still list it. But it's not like that. The purpose of this session was primarily to try to talk here again, to talk, to represent the weaknesses of one solution or another, and to somehow try to find a solution in the end. That is true, the divisiveness of opinions in coalition parties is the most evident. The diametric contradictions are between your opinions and your opinions. How, then, should we and everyone else believe that, from this intention that this law is supposed to bring, there is something that will really lead to the transparent and good privatisation of Slovenian companies? Unfortunately, that is not the case, and so, at least all the time in me, this dilemma is now whether it has not been deliberately stactified, that the law on this holding company has been put into the procedure of that minimum deficiency, to which the President of the National Assembly has then gladly resisted, refused to supplement it, and thus bought time, one week or whatever. Every day or every week, he is also welcome in the hope that the coalition will unite. If this works, maybe it's a good solution, or I'll make a smart move. If this had happened by chance, the finance ministry would have allowed itself to make one such flaw — I would hardly have believed it in view of the many laws they have already tabled and also in knowledge of these procedures that are here. The debates here also show, in particular from the types of Social Democrats, that there is no fair intention that this law will then be realized in such a way as solutions are set out. This dilemma can arise all the time in view of the debates that some solutions that have proved to be bad are being advocated. The Capital Investment Management Agency, which has proven itself to be a political body that has had no effects that would contribute to transparent privatisation and better management of state assets, is again being put at the forefront here, as if this were something glorious and would indeed bring some progress. If you remember the discussions at the pre-election time of 2011, most of the parties who were in Parliament opposed the Capital Investment Management Agency and had already objected to such a form of management. This is happening now, too, but one party that has an important weight here is always leaning towards it, and I am afraid that at the time that it will have to start making concrete decisions and also giving some results, this process will stop again. I welcome what Prime Minister Bratušek is doing now to try to convince investors at these investment conferences, from Italy, Germany, France, Russia. I hope that this is what the Secretary of State said – that it only offers those companies that have already been confirmed in the National Assembly that it would not be now that it is time for Christmas sale or for the re-selling of Slovenian assets, so that this offer would not be significantly higher. I hope that's not the case. Unfortunately, however, the whole matter will be able without any effect if foreign investors perceive what the political climate is like in Slovenia, that nothing concrete can be realized and that they will waste time to deal with us. All this effort, all this effort will be for nothing. Therefore, the purpose of our session is to discuss today, perhaps to draw closer to one another, to unify, well-intentioned. If you really want to dictate what some people tell us — believe us that we know the procedures for how this law can be stopped. We could make a law with a similar content. We know when the government wanted to take him one day earlier. At the moment, things could get complicated. And we didn't do it. We also expected that, indeed, some of the solutions that we have referred to ourselves in the debate with Mr Cuffer, which has been very open to our parliamentary group or to the general opposition, will present solutions, will present reservations, will also present the concerns of coalition parties, and our well-intentioned comments have somehow been recorded and will ensure that it is possible to record and take into account what is in his power. Unfortunately, there is not much to see in this text. What this text will be at the end is hard to predict. Amendments can be formulated in one way or another entirely differently. But such solutions, such as they are now in this law, are certainly not what would give some hope that privatisation in Slovenia will begin with a very transparent, with some honest intentions. What I think is earlier, Mr Brulc explained that what is wrong here is that the President of the Commission for the Supervision of Public Finance is a member of the Supervisory Board – there may already be a major problem in this, that it is not always one who can be adequately competent, professionally competent, who could also represent this function in the professional sense. A significantly better solution, which has always proved to be in practice, is that, on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where the opposition has a majority, it can propose an appropriate, competent person who will be familiar with matters. From this title I do not see any major concerns, even some of the obvious, that some people who have a party or political label are being recruited. By the way, anyone can get it if possible with a Member of one or other political options on coffee or whatever. However, I think that there is nothing wrong with being a political party, whatever – I believe that every competent person – proposes to the responsible place a person who, for the first time, is professionally competent enough to have responsibility, and who also has some honour and principles. But it can be from its own kind or from other circles if they consider it to be so. That's why I don't think it makes much sense to criticize such a drastic solution. I think that formerly, colleague Pogačnik has shown in a very plastic way that there is generally too much text in this law about the meaning of the anti-corruption commission. We do not oppose this, but the law on integrity and the rest of the legislation already specifies exactly what can be done and how to proceed. Here, however, it is probably primarily for pyar reasons that the public will think that the anti-corruption commission will watch over this law, prevent any scoundrel or anything. Nothing's gonna happen. We saw it, and then they stepped down. Why? There are many such contributions that are more likely to serve pharaohs than some honest or materially good purposes. Also, this fear of privatisation, which some in their debates show — why this fear? I know quite a few companies that have privatised themselves, which are excellent companies that take care of development, take care of jobs, contribute a lot to their environment for environmental development, and not least to countries. It is true, however, that most of these companies grew out of nothing, that at the start of privatisation, those who went into this property had to give up their assets, their mortgages and hard to make sure that they did not get credit for their beautiful eyes, on the basis of a telephone call, and all this privatisation was then completely different and also good. Here's where I'd like to point out the following. It is not fair, then, that, above all, the coalition Members are trying to tell us here that this debate is unnecessary, that it has no conclusions and that we do not know what we are discussing. Reference to this meeting, the material contains quite a lot of text, with all the suggestions, including conclusions and also some concerns. This debate that we had on the Committee on Finance yesterday – the coalition has completely rejected our proposed conclusions, and today this is being considered without conclusions. But that doesn't mean we're the ones responsible. So once again, the coalition, accept our request, our debate well-intentioned. We do not want to impose anything here, and we hope and hope that you will first and foremost unite and then come to Parliament and also practice with such solutions that will really start the privatisation process, because this is only an important segment even further so that our economy will begin to recover primarily with foreign investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready for him, as you said before, mag. Andrej Shircelj and then Mr Branko Smodish and Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this debate was organised, if I may say so, at the right time. We are facing a new concept of the Slovenian State Holding. With this concept, which, as far as we know, has been adopted by the Government, is satisfied with Minister Cufer and is not satisfied with one of the coalition parties. We have heard this today in the position of the DeSUS Group, which has also said, inter alia, that the Slovenian State Holding Act is not coordinated. We have a problem, and that is why it is still good – while at this point the opposition is leading the game, and we have heard several times today, and I will also reiterate that the opposition here is offering the coalition a hand in the light of the previous coalition, that is, ours, in the previous government, when we have, for the hundredth time, invited the opposition to participate in such an important marriage. It would be good for the country, for citizens and for citizens if they jointly adopted the Slovenian State Holding Act or its novelty. The problem is that in 22 years we have done many successful stories in the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately we have not done well. And one such is privatisation, final privatisation. We just can't do that. I speak in the first person of the crowd, that we understand each other. There were many concepts that a person could give them the title How to privatize so as not to privatize. And nothing happened. We, ladies and gentlemen, are now in this Europe or a wider hermetically closed economy, and this is not good. I would be happy to have domestic investors – yes, but what if they are not. Those who were, at least some, had no good intentions because they were managers who put the company on a bucket so that they could buy it for some change. Sad stories, people on the road and 120 thousand registered unemployed today. I simply cannot forgive that we are today in a society of eight countries where the country has a majority ownership of banks. In this group, where there is Slovenia, there are Costa Rica, Cuba, Sri Lanka, Kenya, Syria, Iraq and some other countries. With all due respect to these countries, but - good company, right? Previously, some praise was almost stuck to the AUKN. We need to be realistic and truthful. It should be recalled that the then government, the Pahor government, on 30 June 2011, rejected the strategy prepared by the AUKN and gave the AUKN a 15-day deadline, I think that by 14 July 2011, it will complete this strategy. It was said: the AUKN strategy requires thorough repairs. Since then, since 14 July 2011, the trail has somehow faded. It is a pity that in all these privatisation processes or as long as we have a state-owned economy, we do not realize what state property is. State property is property belonging to the people or citizens, not to the government, to political parties or to interest groups. I don't know if we've made this thought thoroughly enough. This simple arrangement entails very important consequences. The owner or principal, in the language of the theory of representation, is the holder of ownership rights, while the state through the government is only an agent or agent. The government therefore has no discretion over state property, but it bears a custody, fiduciary responsibility. The main feature of the fiduciary relationship between government and citizens is that the government must act in good principle, i.e. citizens who are holders of ownership rights. The fiduciary relationship requires the government to demonstrate in each property decision that it acted in the interests of citizens. In doing so, it is important that, in a fiduciary relationship, there is a burden of proof on the part of an agent, that is, a government that must convince its citizens at each decision [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this debate is still very useful today for several reasons. The first reason, of course, is to draw attention to some lack of transparency and some illegal situation today in the area of governance of state property, and also to the fact that this government does not have a uniform concept. I am interested to hear the views of the coalition's parliamentary groups, and in this debate I do not even know whether we have a minority government or a coalition government here today, as it is more or less clear from the positions themselves that the government, or this coalition, is not united in terms of property management. And that means what? This means that, after a somewhat old custom, this has already happened several times, increased management, more efficient management, the possible privatisation of companies will be extended, and some of the actions that the President of the Government may be doing now mean some media event, meaning some presentation of Slovenia. They probably do not mean that individual companies are represented there, or perhaps this means that Slovenia is even buying something in Milan, Moscow, Paris, Düsseldorf or anywhere else. Maybe we're buying there, even though it's not mentioned in our files. About a year ago, we were much longer than we were today. It was passed by law, a classification was adopted, guidelines were laid down, and, as I know, agreement was given in principle on the classification of investments, in particular oral consent, sometime in March. I think it was also given by the current coalition, but then it was easy for the Finance Committee or the National Assembly to fall apart. Why? Because interests are probably different. Because some parties to the current coalition are likely to defend state ownership, in particular because they can then manage, they can designate supervisory authorities, they can also set up administrations, and a variety of state-owned companies can be financed in such a way or otherwise, either through a donation or in any other way, by a group, including a lobbyist group or a political group. And why would we let it go? Such ownership dates back to probably 1945 or from 1950 onward, and today nothing or very little has happened on this property. What happened happened in 1991 and 1992. I'm not saying it was good, but I don't think there were any mistakes. And then, of course, the thing stopped. Today we are where we are, and in certain cases, such as banking, it becomes such a burden. It becomes a burden because it is ineffective because it is unsuccessful, and because of the need to recapitalise, as it is said today, or it will probably be necessary to give 3 billion euros to Slovenian banks this weekend, and then the bonds in January and so on. Now it becomes a burden and someone probably wouldn't have this property anymore, but this property is here now, and the country is the one responsible. The easiest way to do this is by taxpayers or the current government with tax money. But the situation is the same. We have a lot of companies that have assets, Kad, Sod, D. S.U., PDP, some companies, each of which has its own kindergarten and untransparently manages this property, and of this property there is no big profit, even because some money is going to be spent in such a way or other for financing, as I said, some political groups, some lobbyist groups, however. Looks like it's working. Now let's imagine that we would say, say, and that the coalition agrees to privatise TES 6 through the state-owned HSE. Or that, as in Slovenia once before, an investor came to join Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways, but then the response was that it was impossible not to give the port. I won't even talk about the articles and what the addresses were in the newspapers, which boot came to the Adriatic coast and so on. This is of no interest to anyone, and this is also why today the question is whether this debate will encourage the current coalition to become so unified that at least the provisions of the law will be uniform, and those who talk about Kad, who will still be a special company that will provide money for pensioners, about the Blue Insurance Company, which will still be a special society, because it needs special status and so on. There will still be so many exceptions that the question is how such management will be unified. Because these companies, Kad and Blue Insurance, also have their investments. For example, Blue Insurance has quite an investment in Cimos. Then the question is, what can pensioners promise from such an investment made by the Blue Insurance Company and how much money will they get from it? Nothing, because the state put another 30 million in Cimos. And then here is the question of whether such a way is effective. Or perhaps it is better, I don't know, to demand that the financial effects of this law be written, even though I think the financial effects are written. No financial effects, wrote the government. Now the question is, what kind of financial impact does the President of the National Assembly want to see – how much these transfers will cost to a new society, how much is this property, whether it's 11 billion or 12 billion if you said it was 11 billion years ago. I'm sure it's 30% less today. When tomorrow or tomorrow's well-known valuations and valuations made for real estates, for stakes and so forth of this international institution, you will see that this property is scarce, and then the question will be whether it is still meaningful with this property to do or will remain only energy, power plants that are of some value, all other shares and apartments will have four times less value than we think they have or are in the balance sheet today. We missed another train again. Not that we're one, now we're missing the next. Because if this agony continues, we don't come anywhere and nothing happens. Be assured that foreign investors, and some of them have also spent the last few years doing financial checks, legal checks, tax checks and so on, a few million euros. One or the other politicians, one or the other minister, promised them something that then did not happen, and today Slovenia is considered an unworthy country in this regard. Foreign investors avoid Slovenia because they do not come here to pay one or two or three million euros for checks and then they will leave. Not to mention that these 15 companies, which are listed as a specific group of companies, are among them one company that is probably most valuable, Telekom Slovenije. One minister says that they will provide wires or water separately and will sell telecommunications services without water and so on. This is what foreign investors read and say: This government is not united here. As a result, demand is immediately lower or immediately lower because it is known that someone is hiding something from doing something with a fig in his pocket. If so, then the question is whether it makes sense that this coalition has been negotiating for a year or nine months now a law that probably does not intend to bring it to life. If she was disturbed by that transfer that was in the previous marriage, it is said who owns it now – although this is not the most important because if it is the owner of the holding, the country is the 100 % owner of this holding company and is in a very similar position as if it is the owner of the Republic of Slovenia. Even if it isn't. We'd change two articles and we'd move on. That's not how she went. I doubt that these Presidential Conferences will help the government to achieve privatisation in Slovenia. In the 2014 budget itself, the government estimated that there were no financial effects. It is said that future investors would not see how much individual prices are. Come on. No, no, no, no, no! Because no sales are foreseen, because the coalition here is not unified. Someone's always gonna get pregnant. So I propose that the coalition on this issue be united and say what it wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Smodish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u65	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I don't know if we're talking about the Slovenian State Holding today or if we're talking about selling everything. Many times it has been said that if the Social Democrats did, the Social Democrats did, but it was, and it wasn't, I don't wonder how far this is our economy and everything that was owned by the state came because there is no talk of how much better it would be. It is normal for Social Democrats to oppose the sale of the best companies. You all call this a healthy farmer. Is the farmer selling the best crops, or is he selling the best livestock? What's left of him if he sells everything? Empty barn and house and – what? It's collapsing. These are our companies. That's really a question. Earlier, Norway was mentioned, so I wonder why we did not take little into account in Norway in these 20 years, because, Mr Pogačnik, there is no obstacle to the party's membership in Norway to the supervision that was in Del, and that kind of thing. However, something very interesting is written here, which the state holding company and administrations should stick to. If I read: "Norwegian principles of good state ownership. All shareholders will be treated equally. State ownership, the company will be transparent. All decisions and decisions of the owners will be taken at the meetings. The State may set business objectives for each undertaking, but together with other owners, the Supervisory Board will be responsible for achieving these objectives. The capital structure of enterprises will correspond to the specific objective of ownership and also to the situation in the company," – interestingly, isn't it? "The composition of the Management Board shall be marked by competence, competence and diversity and shall reflect the specificities of each company. Wages and reward schemes will promote the creation of value for businesses and will be considered reasonable. The Supervisory Board will independently supervise the management of the company on behalf of its owners. The Supervisory Board will adopt a plan for its own work and actively fulfil its competences. The activities of the Supervisory Board will be assessed. Companies will be aware of the responsibilities of all their shareholders and shareholders," – also workers, right? I don't think it's such a difficult thing to move in and that our state-owned economy will start making profits. But I don't know what's been going on for 20 years now, and I hope from now on this will be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak. For her Dr. Ljubica Jelusic and then Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Madam Vice President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Those few of us are still here in the hall because apparently some problems with the management of state property do not matter or do not care what happens to state property. Allow me, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, especially from the SD, who have criticised the opposition, to remind you in particular of the role of the opposition to watch over the work of the coalition or the work of the government. Because we do not care what is happening, as a legitimate means we have made a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. On the subject, first of all, I would like to say that by this decision, which was adopted by the coalition Members and Members in June, the decision to agree to withdraw the Republic of Slovenia's investment – let me remind you that Mr Luksič, President of the SD himself, has cynically said that he is worse than Janez Janša's rejected proposal. About the proposal that our government and our coalition put into the National Assembly at the time, you were vehemently talking about the theft of the century. I'd say what you're doing today could be the theft of the millennium. I am pleased that today, in his position, DeSUS has relied on certain things since we were still in the coalition. Let me take stock of what colleague Plevčak said, namely that they appear to be required to convene this extraordinary meeting fully justified. She further spoke of the fact that we have the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is in force and should also be fully implemented, and that DeSUS Members are also perfectly clear about this. And that's why the Desus Group wonders why the hell the law is not being implemented. Congratulations on your statement in front of the cameras today. We, too, in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, ask this question. It saddens me, however, what colleague Plevčak and some members of the opposition have also pointed out that the current coalition or government firmly rejects all the positive signals coming from the opposition, particularly from the Slovenian Democratic Party. No request that has so far been tabled in Parliament to convene an emergency or emergency meeting has been due to the fact that we are setting you up, but to offer you a hand in cooperation and assistance. I think we have already made a very good basis for you with the Slovenian State Holding Act. If you didn't agree with everything, we could sit down together and talk about the little things that don't suit you. My colleague Vogrin said very well that we were sitting back then and we were reconciled — but what happened in those 10 months that suddenly everything was wrong and that you wanted to work in a different way? I think it's about wanting to operate state property in a non-transparent way or selling it cheap. Here I will mention only one company or company, the term of the Roman Toplice. The government or the state has recently invested a great deal of money in the rehabilitation of the Roman thermals. For 20 years, we have somehow been fighting for all governments and all of us to revive the Roman termines. But what happened? The State Bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, and some owners did not wish to establish this company in such a state that it could operate. A while ago, when she was in recovery, she suddenly started doing a positive job. And what did we do in the end? We sold it cheap for 8 million euros! Dear colleagues, you have done so in the current coalition. What's different than stealing? Where's the $20 million left behind? Of course, taxpayers, all of us citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will also pay this price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u69	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I also care a little about why there are so few of us left with this, as some say, so important topics, which, in terms of the resources behind this topic, are certainly important. Whether it is EUR 11 billion of state property, for more or less – in any case it is one large part of our national wealth, and the subject certainly deserves due attention, either at extraordinary or different types of meetings, which will follow when the new SDH law comes to Parliament. I must say that, in today's debate, the problem may also be, as has been the case so far, that somehow this debate creeps out of our hands, that, on the basis of the initiative, we have intended to talk about the management of state property, but then immediately some other fears, resentments, fear of who will and how will privatise this state property, who will pull some commission out of it, as has been said today. Words were used and also, words such as theft, clientelism and so on. I would like to point out that Members and Members should still be aware of what language we use and what we are spreading between citizens and citizens of Slovenia through these fears. We have no concrete evidence, not what is happening today, nor what is going to happen in the future, whether it is a theft of state property or whether it is a matter of some kind of clienteleism. This will have to be demonstrated by appropriate measures and institutions. But with our discussions we give the impression that this is actually happening. Then we cannot be surprised if Slovenia falls or progresses every year on the country's corruption index. Because we, with our discourse, help people to believe that we really are a corrupt country. I think it would be right for us to start taking more serious care of our vocabulary and talking about those things that are proven and those that are not yet proven to be waiting for the appropriate authorities to do their job. I am among those who are advocates of the Capital Investment Management Agency, because in the last 4,5 years it has been the only functioning institution in this country that has tried to manage state assets in some centralised way. In 2010 and 2011, the company was the only company to get closer to some central management ideal, but it also had problems with its operation. In 2012, you reached the SDH Act, but it was not put into operation. A new law on SDH is being written in 2013, but it is not yet in force. So, whatever you're talking about AUKN, this company worked. Then, at the beginning of 2012, not to mention again, the government abolished it, and its desire to develop a state-owned governance strategy was also abolished. Today is perhaps the time to look back at that strategy and see what that document could be useful for today. I'm not saying that because someone thinks I want to wake up the old days and call in the life of AUKN. I just want to say that if we're self-critical enough, then we have to admit that this company has given something away over the last four years. We cannot say, however, that state property, if not AUKN and not SDH, is completely without management. It is managed by a State established by a company. It is true that it must be less transparent than it would have been in a centralised company, but I am still asking myself why we think that state property is necessarily centrally managed and will then be more transparent, and that governance, as it is now through subordinate companies, is not transparent. The problem, in my opinion, is in the state's inability to control the owners of this property. Even in a state like today, we should ensure adequate control, because in waiting for SDH this property will have to be protected from such a fellow mag. The spread said losses from year to year and reduced value. Some of you mentioned the harmony of the political parties of the coalition and the opposition in the previous term or under the past government in the formation of the SDH Act. However, I must conclude that the harmony at one key point has obviously broken because otherwise this SDH would have worked. But somewhere at some point there had to be disagreements, and I'm afraid it's exactly the kind of thing that many debaters are able to feel in today's debates, which is the classification of investments. We are not as concerned about how SDH will work and how different governance structures will function in it. It seems to me that people here are more interested in who will run which company and who will benefit from this management either at home or from those who will come as strategic partners. When, in connection with the debate on holding as a form of central management of our assets, we also mention investment conferences of the President of the Government, I also wonder what some see the problem. Why do you think it is controversial or unusual that the Prime Minister, the prime minister of one country, travels through investment conferences and tries to interest potential strategic investors in the Slovenian economy, but not only that which is state-owned, but also that which is already privatised? I would say that it is also likely that this journey after investment conferences is some kind of creation of a strategy. In the procurement system, it is customary for the market to be analysed first, and the government will also have to make some kind of market analysis and determine whether of all of its assets and Slovenian companies there is anything of interest to foreign investment or foreign strategic partners. On this basis, it is likely that this is my personal opinion that one part of the future governance strategy may also be created. When reference was made to the composition of the Supervisory Board in the current SDH law, there were also some criticisms at the expense of being a member of the Supervisory Board of the Commission’s President for the supervision of public finances. Personally, I think that we need Members and Members to set ourselves a goal in the management of state property, how we can exercise our influence on where those SDH points of action are, where Members can have a decisive impact on the appropriateness of State property management. I think it may be through one of the members of the Supervisory Board, through the President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, that is one possibility. If you think that this is not the best option, that this is an unreliable person and that we call this place an incompetent person in the National Assembly, I am concerned about how we recruit or how the structure of the working bodies of the National Assembly is formed. I have always been convinced that in key commissions and committees, we are careful to ensure that they are guided by people who have adequate competences from their previous activities. At this point, let me close and point out just one more thing. I mentioned earlier this observable nostalgia for the harmony of the opposition and the coalitions under the previous government when the first law on SDH was formed. The approaches to finding the opposition's consensus are different in different governments. I think Minister Chufer, when he presented the ideas of the new SDH law to the opposition as well, tried to take one of the possible paths of finding a common opinion or a position of the opposition. If he did not set up a working committee or a working group, then it is a matter of his working judgement as to how this new document should be produced. We in parliamentary democracy really have a lot of opportunities to influence government documents, and it is not necessarily through working groups that this influence takes place. It can also take place as is the case today through an extraordinary session on a subject, that we do not talk about the three rounds of consideration of the laws that await us in every law in the ordinary procedure, and also through discussions on the working bodies and so on. Parliamentarians still have a great deal of power in developing and amending legislation. So I think Chufer's approach, as far as the opposition's involvement is concerned, has been good so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u70	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u71	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I think that a few reasoned concerns should be added to the last debate, in particular with regard to the performance of the AUKN. The AUKN was one step ahead, but it showed enormous weaknesses. He showed above all the weakness that property is not the most successfully managed and that under the AUKN system it is extremely difficult to prove responsibility. This was seen in the recapitalisation of the NKBM. This was the main purpose of the government of Janez Janša to centralise the assets, for there will be one operator and one will be responsible for the management. AUKN was just the manager, because we still had Kad, we always had the Court, D. S.U., and to this day it is not known whether the Minister was responsible for who then gave the task of recapitalising the NKBM and who is responsible for this loss to these energy companies. I'd like to mention the numbers again. The AUKN reference year, €35 million in assets management revenue, was over €500 million. The AUKN strategy was mentioned. Dear colleague Jelusic, the AUKN strategy was rejected by the ministerial assembly of the government of Borut Pahor. This means that your government itself was not harmonised at the time. One of the then ministers even pointed out that the AUKN was a bed of corruption. This was a statement made by one of the ministers of the then government of Borut Pahor. That the SD insists so stubbornly on this property and advocates certain things – I think it was very clear from your advice and guests of this omis. At that time, SD was seen to have 95 % of the government's assets under control. For all the important functions in the country under this heading, the key people at the time sat behind this ommis. Some said they were SD members, some said they were sympathizers. If national assets were to be made successfully, there would be nothing wrong with that. But the problem is, it's a failure. Do not report to the opposition that it is responsible that SDH is not working today. You rejected the classification, which was your legitimate right. But why not bring a new law into the National Assembly? He was promised in June. He was promised in September. It is promised that the National Assembly will decide on this at its December session. None of that. It should be pointed out that the reasons why the President of the National Assembly rejected this law – the Slovenian Democratic Party, at a press conference, immediately after the publication of this law on the websites of the Ministry of Finance, pointed out that the law makes it clear that the financial implications for the state budget will be financial. That was September 18th. In presenting this law by Minister Chufer, we have again warned the Minister that this law will have financial implications for the budget. It clearly states that SDH, which will manage state assets, will receive compensation for this and will be compensated from the budget. This means that it is the whorehouse of the Ministry of Finance and the government of Alenka Bratušek. Otherwise, I can't imagine. Or it is intentional stallion, for in the coalition, as seen today from opinions and from individual discussions, you are on very different shores. It would probably be more reasonable to go to correct the existing law, at least in certain segments, and get to the goal first. We have not troubled the visits of the President of the Government and investment conferences. We said the cities were real, but something was missing before. In the light of past experience, Slovenia will once again land on the blacklist of all foreign investors. Those who begin to take an interest in companies and everything else are also caused by certain costs, and here Slovenia needs to be trusted abroad, as the President of the Slovenian Compensation Society has also mentioned. The main questions at these investment conferences are: are you serious? Slovenia will take this seriously when the National Assembly approves the classification and strategy. You don't need the opposition to do that, so the coalition has to make a deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I agree with some of your statements, including on the functioning of the AUKN, but I must point out that the strategy that the Agency has drawn up was dealt with at a time when the Pahor government, that is, our, my former government, was already falling apart. This was in the summer of 2011, and at the time things with some of the parties in that coalition were already to the end, not to mention that some of the parties were already outside the coalition and that the debate on the strategy, as it was prepared by the government, had never occurred at all. We have not yet addressed the strategy in the government because it was stopped before we even gathered enough political consensus to deal with it. As with others, as with your government in 2012, when it comes to a large number of different parties, it is very difficult to find a compromise on such a complex and complex issue as governance of state assets, and this is evident in the current government. It should not surprise us, therefore, that this provision of the new SDH law did not last just one month, but lasted longer. The search for compromises in this management is difficult. The parties have different views, including experts in these different parties have different views, and I hope that we will also slowly reach a minimum common compromise in our government that will lead to a new law and then to the realization of SDH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Mr Tomaž Lisec is behind him and then Mag. I'm holding Bon Klanjšček and Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Now that we are discussing this very important law, which should have long been under the roof or be operational and active, it is very important what we say and how. Colleague Jelusic said in her first debate that the debate was getting out of hand and that fears were being observed in the debates. And you also had a call to keep an eye on the vocabulary. I firmly believe that you were referring to the President of the National Assembly sitting before you, Mr Webra, who, in fact, was spreading the fear of discussing the first law and was talking about treason and the robbery of the century at that time in the law which, however you wish, was illustrated both by the coalition and the opposition, provided for the least controlled membership in the supervisory world and in the authorities of the opposition or those not in power. Today I also have another fear here because there is no interest in, say, from Positive Slovenia to debate that today will have a terrible problem for those who have to do summaries and are under pressure from the authorities and probably editors. Recently, two thirds of the abstracts from the debate have been presented by the coalition plus ministers, one third from the opposition, although there is probably a reverse relationship in the debate. The coalition discusses one fifth and the opposition discusses four fifths, but there is a reverse relationship, and this fear is always present. Now that we are discussing this law, I expected that these fears, which are objective – we know how this coalition works and what they are intended for – to be clarified by the Minister or, if there was no higher power, by the President of the Government. I don't know. Maybe she'd come. When the Prime Minister had to fly today or last night, she remained on the ground in Moscow and Alenka Bratušek and her government have been in the air for over a year. But in the clouds, in a conscious fog, and nowhere is he progressing. The fog as a synonym for fishing in mud is, in some ways, a trademark of this government. That's the way it is in this marriage. The government is working on this enormous demagogism to prepare some very good marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, when I look at this bill, which is ready to do so, if transparency and governance of state property were to be the aim, as it does, then we would not foresee that the government alone appoints a supervisory council, then it would not be nearly half of the confusion in this law as to how important Chapter 5 is: Business compliance and integrity. You have the authority to comply with business and integrity, then to limit conflicts of interest, a competitive clause. In limiting conflicts of interest, it is stated that those who will lead, their jobs or positions and information acquired in the performance of their work must not use this to achieve an illicit private interest for themselves or for others. Ladies and gentlemen in this government, isn't it mandatory for ministers under the integrity law? It is now quite clear to half the ministers that they have violated this, that the situation has been used to abuse internal information [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u76	Mr Jerovšek, I suggest you focus on the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u77	Yeah, that's the point, that's the government's property management. That's how it's handled. Minister of Economy and Mr Omerzel, and today the new Minister is in the process and so on. This is how this government manages citizens' assets. Sorry, that's part of it. If it hurts or not, I have to say it. How should they believe in this government that those chosen solely by the government or coalition will stick to these proposals, which ministers should first stick to, while the country's fabulous contracts for their own private interests are hidden. Infringement of integrity and a desperate conflict of interest by ministers. Colleagues and colleagues, if that marriage was previously the basis for high treason, then we can say that this law is probably a law for managing and fogging high treason. I am convinced that it must not be possible to adopt such a form of this law. Indeed, these clauses, the 12 pages on integrity, the prevention of conflicts of interest – if the government intended to recruit honest people, then that would not be necessary. Then it could be said that they are bound by ethics and must have ten divine commandments. If they fail to do so, they are at work, they must never again be employed in a state-owned company and so on. And another sentence: They are also committed to all the principles of natural law, which every able - bodied person must master — natural morality. And here's where they write and there's where they write. That's nonsense. It is already known that this is a blur before the public of actual purposes, constant fishing in mud. This mud fishing will take place under this law. The banks also had the same integrity and conflict of interest prevention, and we know where we came from. What Weber said last year has actually happened. It only happened in banks. Now perhaps someone else is planning to rob the century. All the commitments were there too, and now neither the state nor the bankers want to give you data, who took the money, who signed the credit agreements, and they also set out clearly. No one will convince me that by natural law this allows for the Banking Act and the secrecy of the data. Illegal secrets are a crime all over Europe. These are illegal secrets. If someone committed a crime, a crime, no law can protect him. And bankers operate on an illegal secret, which is absolutely clear in modern Europe and is also part of our legislation, because we are in the European Union. It seems to me that, as it is written in the law, managers will treat this property equally because they do not have the appearance neither in ministers nor in banks, anywhere. This hospitality in these clauses is clearly confused. This is why you have not adopted here a previous law that could be fixed and now functioning, and you would also know what the President of the Government can offer at these business conferences. Not just in fact, she also metaphorically stayed on the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this choice of the control council – you say to yourself that you know that it will not be with the confidence that people will not be transparent, that honest people will not be chosen. Unfortunately, in this country, I find that those who continue to prey on state property for their own needs smell. It is distasteful that Mr. Frangež said that you are pioneers of transparency in your party. Yes, indeed, pioneers. Some prominent members of your party are pioneers of tycoonization, and that is yes. I tried one in Kidrichev, in TGA, in Talum, in Silkem, where I stopped wild property twice, and then I had to leave, and I got kicked out of the company. Your candidate in the election. That was a pioneer. And there are many such pioneers, Mr. Pavček, Mrs. Jožeka Hegler, who was able to give the pioneer money to a fictitious company and for fictitious business and so on. You have plenty of pioneers. Earlier, he had said, sir, that the return on state property had improved by 40%. Then the money should be in the pile, not the state's most in debt! What does that nonsense say? Are Slovenian citizens really so underestimated that they will accept and buy everything? It's nonsense. But it is true that they were pioneers or non - pioneers, now in the Court and probably in the AUKN, even in the payment of prizes. Mr Kuntarič and the three-member administration took the 240 thousand-year prize with them. That's a pioneer job, that's what it is! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want that kind of pioneering of this coalition anymore. Let them start doing fair and transparent work. Let Alenka Bratušek do business with ministers who have already basically come to sit in two chairs and work for their own private interests. Then you can have this marriage on three sides and SDH will work. If you ask me if I can propose to six people for whom I put my hand in the fire, you can, but you won't be happy with them. And we'd do great. Because I know some honest people who can be trusted. Only such people do this government and this authority does not entitle them. The same pioneers keep spinning all the time, and we have had enough of these pioneers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u79	Thank you. Nice greetings for me, too! Those who have a problem with today’s session – I believe that today’s meeting would not be necessary if this government knew what it wants to do with managing state property. Even more so, if that government were to do what it would say, it is speaking the opposite of what it is doing. More than that, this meeting would be unnecessary if the Government continued the work of the previous government. But the fact is that the former government has fallen because of the privatisation or resolution of the management of the state property, in addition to the bad bank, because it has attacked the centre of the transition. All the red alarms went off and Janez Janša's government had to fall. If the government does not know what it would or would not do, recent events also prove. An example of an energy law where the Government has no idea what it wants for state-owned companies in the field of energy does not know it translates into subsequent periods. But the government has only taken one step. After the fall of the government of Janez Janša, who has also prepared two documents, guidelines and classifications in her last breaths, where she wanted to at least indicate the direction in which the government's assets were to be managed, the same representatives of that government, or those coalitions, who were also in the previous coalition, refused to do so. It's a perfect salt mortal. That this government doesn't know what it wants, it's not a big secret. The positive Slovenia, which is issued as a new customer, sets up a mirror for everyone except its uncles. The SD has a president of a party who does not even assume responsibility to go to the government and try to resolve this joint wagon, has the President of the National Assembly, who has designated the previous classification as a high treason, a leader of a parliamentary group who says in the camera that the uncles from the background are stronger than their parliamentary group. We have a client here who issues a liberal bill, but he supports tax hikes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u80	I suggest you talk about the point, not the evaluation of political parties in the National Assembly. I'm asking for correctness.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u81	I'm just explaining why I don't think this government knows what to do with state property management. To conclude, we also have a client concerned only by a certain group of people, not their future. The government of Janez Janša also tried to break this monopoly of national interest, which is probably the most abused vocabulary in Slovenia, but came across a sharp response and fell. Moreover, those who are now full of mouths about the management of state property have requested a call for a legislative referendum overnight, but fortunately the Constitutional Court has rejected them with the words: "The suspension of the enforcement and rejection of the Slovenian State Holding Act at the referendum would have had unconstitutional consequences." The Constitutional Court gave them the wrong one, and this is where the last alarm went off, and the government of Janez Janša fell. I believe the previous marriage was well-intentioned. We are also convinced by the fact that the previous coalition was able to talk to the opposition, particularly on those key issues. Moreover, even professionally they took a step back so that they could take a political step forward. According to the latest data from the draft law prepared by this government, which is a while in the National Assembly, some time ago in the Government, which also seems to indicate that this government has no interest or lobby in pushing or stalling, despite the fact that the President of the Government at some investment conferences is throwing sand in the eyes of foreigners by how seriously we are dealing with this matter, because it is the European institutions that have put pressure on it, and at home he is hiding behind his kindergarten, which is called a national interest. Those who had the opportunity to see the bill could see how this government intends to resolve the management of state property. This is by going back to central or centralist planning, which shows quite clearly how this government represents the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. Only for those who do not know or who have not read the reference to the urgent meeting: the solution concerning the Supervisory Council was fundamentally contrary to the request of Members of the Positive Slovenia and SD of December last year when they conditioned the withdrawal of signatures for the referendum with a precise composition of the Supervisory Board. At that time, the mouth was full of people who had to be there, and now with ease, perhaps with a decision overnight, perhaps with an e - mail or an e - mail, they resolve the five representatives ’ proposal by the government, and then the coalition majority in the National Assembly peacefully confirm them. Let me finish. On the basis of all these facts, I believe that the debate is still necessary and necessary. That it is absolutely necessary, however, also shows the Government's response to the proposal for an urgent meeting when it deals more with what the SDS Group has proposed and where it sees the main problems. The government's answers, however, go in the direction that the paper carries everything or leave our dizzy spells of national interest alone. Once again, while the President of the Government abroad is portraying our Slovenia as a successful country, the word privatisation for many in Slovenia is unfortunately still the negative word of the liberal world, which the President of the Government on one side of the good man, and on the other hand he does not want this privatisation. I propose to the Government, to the Minister of Finance and also to the Minister of the Economy, it is likely that the President of the Government will also be able to resolve the management of state property in a European comparable way, not to return to one year when we were watching black and white films and when we were all hiding behind the national interest and using it to plunder the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mag. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor. Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Alenka Jeraj and Mr Jože Tanko should prepare for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Today, at the request of the SDS party, we are considering the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of State property management. The SDS party's observations can be divided into two groups, namely those relating to non-compliance with the provisions of the current SDH Act and those concerning the novels of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Today we have heard several times that, in accordance with Article 32 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government has not submitted a proposal for classification and a proposal for guidelines to the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we all know that, last week, adopted a new law on SDH, which regulates governance, and here is the emphasis, management of Slovenian property. The fundamental, fundamental difference between the new and the old law is evident in a different regime of ownership. The novelty governs SDH so that the ownership of the State is separate from other state functions. With regard to the apparent lack of transparency of privatisation procedures, however, it is worth recalling the significant 12 August 2005 meeting of the then Prime Minister, the President of the Administrations of Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz and the President of the Kad Supervisory Board, who was also the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, and agreed to purchase Mercator shares and the ambitions of the then Prime Minister to manage the daily Delo. That's right, by the way, and I'm not accusing anyone of anything or judging anyone. I must point out that it is for the sake of ensuring the principle of transparency that the Government has complemented its first proposal and stressed its commitment to transparency of procedures. Thus, the Court of Auditors may, in accordance with its legal powers, exercise control over the execution of individual sales procedures. The involvement of representatives of the Commission to prevent corruption is also possible at any time. When a legal entity remains independent, the management and management of its financial investments shall be transferred to SDH. And that's what I'm talking about. I am convinced that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratušek does not go to European capitals for a fashion magazine, but is doing her best to find ways to take our Slovenia to a better time. As I know, she attended four investment conferences and presented hundreds of international companies with investment opportunities in Slovenia. The interest of investors is enormous, which is encouraging, and I am sure it will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik as a proponent, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u85	Yes, indeed, the Government has tabled a new bill in the National Assembly, but you forgot to say that the President of the National Assembly rejected it because of its shortcomings. With regard to debates and views, especially coalition parties, we are concerned in the SDS because, given today's debate, this law is unlikely to be enforced for a long time. There will be no classification, there will be no strategy. You pointed out that it is important that the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia will not be transferred to holding but that the holding company will manage it. If the owner does not manage his property, if he gives it to a third party, there is a very high probability that we will not be able to talk about governance in the state property, but that we will talk about governance, but that politics will lead him again. With the composition of the Supervisory Board, the government has shown that it has fully subordinated this holding. The Court of Auditors, the KPK, public information, was mentioned. Then I would ask you: why have you narrowed down this scope of the Court of Auditors, the information of a public nature? The existing legislation applies both to SDH and to its subsidiaries, both to the Court of Auditors and to information of a public nature. Now you have deleted the provision of the subsidiary. But the key issue is with the subsidiaries, and don't fool the public. I think the opposition has the right to draw attention to matters. And the coalition is responsible for not respecting the law that you are eight months late for classification, that you are eight months late for appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, that the new law was not already in the National Assembly in June, September, and also will not be in the December session. We're just trying to warn you, and I never mentioned that the Prime Minister of the Government went to a fashion magazine in these cities. We have said that this is commendable on the one hand, but something is missing earlier because we fear that Slovenia will come in the same way as it did in 2009-2011. Bring law into the National Assembly or strategy or classification.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I listened to you on the Finance Committee and here, and you kept talking about how the President of the Government was walking around Europe. As for the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act, you will have the opportunity to discuss and learn all things at the January meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. It is followed by Mrs Jeraj, then Mr Janko Weber and Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. I will continue with the fact that my colleague spoke about before me, which is what the President of the Government is doing abroad. Personally and even my fellow Members, we don't mind if someone walks abroad if he does his homework at home. My mom used to say to me, "You can go out, but you're gonna have to do some homework at home." A logical sequence is that before you go abroad, you adopt some legislation that gives you some authority to even start selling or offering. That's another thing. Anyone who buys state property, any serious investment company or any other international company or investors, usually does some market analysis and, above all, an analysis of the complete modern Slovenian society. What can they say about market analysis? What did the government do before she went to these so-called investment conferences? Before that, she raised VAT, and we accepted a property tax. We are a country where the judicial system does not work and economic disputes last too long. The other thing that is is extremely strong unions. Each serious investment partner wonders whether he is coming to a country where this business environment is excellent, well, unsatisfactory. And Slovenia is considered unsatisfactory. The President of the Government, except that tourism is there, has nothing to do because she has not done her homework. For example, I spoke to Professor Martin Winterkorn, CEO of Volkswagen last year at a coffee tournament. He asked me about the following questions: What would Volkswagen be interested in if he ever came to Slovenia? Above all, those structural reforms that could have been adopted in this free course when you did nothing. I'm talking about school reform. We have 19,000 young people on the high school exchange, especially sociologists with whom we have nothing to do. These are structurally unemployed. We should put them in pre-qualification. A serious society with these people has nothing to do with it. That's another thing. This environment has incredibly high labour taxes, which is a highly productive labour force, top priority. For those top engineers, there are already higher tax rates here anyway. Even if someone buys one such company – will it remain the development of this company in Slovenia? Will only that minimum added value be here? Will he take this company out of Slovenia? What is important is the media message from these conferences. Hollande in Paris says, "We believe in Slovenia." Great! Why didn't he buy Slovenia's bonds by 0.25%, like the Austrians? I believe, say, my colleague Möderndorfer and I lend him 500 euros because I know he'll pay me back tomorrow. Hollande could say, "I believe in Slovenia and buy immediately for two billion Slovenian bonds." And we wouldn't pay 4,84%. I think she bought anything good for her clothes in Milan. I want to know what serious companies are in some business in Moscow that we're supposed to sell. I don't know any serious business in Moscow that would somehow expand these companies, which has markets, which also has a top-notch, intellectual workforce, with which this company would have a future, a development in Slovenia, and could add value and new employment. It is most likely that companies participating in the system, for example, the practice of the Roman termins, where we invest EUR 45 million in the company and eventually buy it from some small Russian tycoon for 8 million. These are the stories. I'm horrified. The law on SDH is in transit. He's changed so much, he's going the other way. After the new novel, only SDH will maintain management, everything else will be centralised, and politics has its fingers back in all the shares of state-owned enterprises. Interestingly, these are, as I always say, monopolistic companies. They sell services or services on the ground, which are monopolistic, and they hinder the normal market economy in Slovenia – this is a key problem at the end – and thus the well-being of people, new employment and everything else. To sort it out in this direction. There's no point in not having an economic minister yet. The Ministry of Economy is a very insignificant member of this government. Above all, it is important to keep kindergartens in Slovenian monopoly companies and work to ensure that nothing is done and nothing is done. Nothing else has been done for eight months except that the Slovenian State Holding Act is going back to the future after the new novel. Thank you for listening. I believe I will be heard and there will be a miracle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I have spoken many times about the good experience of the first Janša government when we had a partnership for development. This development and cooperation was also discussed by Alenka Bratušek, who swore as a new terminator. We're witnessing something else today. Last year, when the government was Janez Janša and we prepared the Slovenian State Holding Act, we also invited the opposition to participate and set up a working group to coordinate the law. This was perfectly described by Mrs Plevčak in her position. If you allow me, I would read this to you: "The current coalition has practically fully participated in the formation of the now valid Slovenian State Holding Act, then of course some in the role of the opposition. The hours and hours of effort that have been put forward by the negotiators in the working group under the leadership of Member Mark Pogačnik are thus thrown aside, as practically none of what the applicable law commands has been done. Why am I talking about this negotiating group? I would like to stress or recall that the law in force was written or drafted by hand in the hands of the then coalition and opposition. Let me take this opportunity, on behalf of the entire DeSUS Group, to express my appreciation for such an attitude and manner of work then to the leading party of the then coalition. The progress of the proposal for a new text of the law is contrary to the previous one." We agreed on some things last year. Colleagues have already talked about how they want to make up the Governing Council. The government takes everything into its own hands, the proposal of the members of the Supervisory Board. We are also adopting the Public Finance Act, with which it will no longer be as it should be, that money from purchases is intended to repay debts or purchase new assets, and that you will agree in any way on how you will distribute it. You also requested the supervision of the Court of Auditors. You're changing that now. Since last year, in less than one year, you've turned things completely upside down. We passed that law together with DeSUS and the National Gazette, so I'm wondering what's wrong with the law that after a few months you don't like it anymore. You're saying we should work together. After all, we worked together a year ago, much more together than we are now, showing that not even the coalition is very much together or that SD has many concerns. The positive Slovenia that governs us today has 3% support, and apparently the main factor in the creation of the Slovenian State Holding Act. It appears that the SD does not support or are probably still the guardians of the national interest or interest of Forum 21. You're saying that we should work together and that you want to adopt a good law. In doing so, all the recommendations we have made are rejected on the committee, although they have been very clear and talk about the violation of the law. In fact, we have the Slovenian State Holding Act and are in force. Mrs. Jelusic, why did we stop the AUKN? Because we have adopted the Slovenian State Holding Act, and the procedures should go on, but under your government happened the same way as happened to a bad bank that was not yours if I use one term, an intimate choice, but it had to happen because of Europe and because of those who are watching us. There you have completely changed your position and you are changing it here as well. We have abolished the AUKN because the law has been passed and procedures should be initiated to set up the Slovenian state holding company. By the way, AUKN didn't do anything but lose. The leaders argued with the then Minister of Economy. Because they were doing so badly, today's President of the Republic announced them to the anti-corruption commission by your President, Mr Pahor. So much for how successful it was and how good work was done by the Capital Investment Management Agency. That's when we warned, but we weren't heard. In our recommendations, we have also proposed that the Government submit investment management and classification guidelines within 14 days. You work without a strategy, which companies are strategic, what about them, what the state will have from what we will do with them. From today to tomorrow, which someone remembers. Former Minister Stepišnik speaks something, something else, Minister Cufer, President of the Government again something third. I'm guessing that's because you're not serious about privatisation, you don't want it. We have heard quite a few such words in the past, and you have therefore rejected our conclusions or recommendations, as you have rejected the decision to withdraw bank secrecy from the Taliban loans. But you go on TV to explain that you want it to be cleared up. You do not want to do anything different here and vote differently because you are not in favour of transparent and fair privatisation because you are the guardian of the national interest or Kučan's interest, Forum 21, for which, if this continues, this country will go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. It is followed by Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u93	Thank you. In view of today's debate and the agenda item, we are talking about recommendations on the issue of governance of state property, but there is still a key document that has been discussed for some time. This is a capital investment management strategy. Neither is this proposal among your recommendations, and this is the fact that we really need to agree in the National Assembly on how we will deal with this property, what the country plans to do with it. Last but not least, we're representatives of the people. The National Assembly is elected by the people, and we are the ones who promote the interests of the people. What is the interest of people, according to experience on such important issues, it is difficult to form only one coalition in one government or in one term or in the same term in another coalition. I think that if we really want to shape a position that does not change from one coalition to another, it would be wise to adopt a capital investment management strategy with a two-thirds majority and to identify companies that are strategically important to us, to identify companies that can also perform successfully on the stock exchange, and also to identify companies that need to be recapitalised and looked for solutions in order to get fresh capital so that they can develop their products and are also successful on the market. Since we are talking a lot about the fact that the Social Democrats have proposed to the Capital Investment Management Agency and that this form has not been sufficiently successful, it is important to stress, however, that this agency has acted all possible for a year and a half in such a full start and has already managed to draw up a strategy. It was not necessary to abolish the agencies, but it was necessary to work on this strategy. Certainly, if this strategy were to work at the time, it would have been adopted today in the National Assembly, and all the discussions would certainly have been dismissed. Does the transfer of the entire assets of the Republic of Slovenia to an economic society mean that there is also a possibility of a sale, which can also be called wholesale? These were serious concerns on my part at the time. This law, which is being prepared today by the Government, does not allow this transfer of all assets to a holding company, an economic society. This is a key difference when we talk about what happened before and what is in preparation right now. Regardless of whether we are going to discuss what the Social Democrats think, what any other party thinks, I would like to point out that the comparative review of the countries annexed to the law currently in force, and is also annexed to this law, which is created by the Government, is a matter of showing regulation in other legal systems, and the case of Finland, France and Germany is described. I think all three countries are extremely reputable and also economically successful. If we look at the solutions, there has been an establishment in Finland since 2007 in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. They maintain a public function to manage this property. They didn't transfer it to holding company. None of these three countries set up a holding company. If we really want a proper debate on this law, then this comparative review should include the countries which established the holding. But the fact is, when we look at what happened to these holding companies, we find that they all produced a high loss that the country had to cover. Finland has opted for a public function, a public institution, for a public governance method, such as the Capital Investment Management Agency, which was a state-owned body. Germany: The Ministry of Finance has been managing federal investment since 2005 as a public institution. Germany also has public institutions and did not go to holding. France: Since 2004, a government investment agency has been established. I think it would be really right to take a look – we have really looked at the Social Democrats, which are the most appropriate forms of governance and we have chosen this. It is interesting that both the proposal currently in force and the one that arises do not contain a comparative overview of countries with holding companies but public institutions, and this is what this is all about. I think it would be very important for us to really agree on how we will design a capital investment management strategy. From that point on, it will also be significantly easier to determine the form of management of these capital investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u95	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Who mixes pears and apples? Let's get down on the real ground. We're comparing Finland, trying to compare with Germany. Then let us compare ourselves with these countries after the stability and health of public finances. Let's see what the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society are, what are the obligations of the Capital Society and what makes Slovenia privatisation. Not because a certain circle of Members wants it here, but because we have obligations and because we have to sell assets. The assets of the Soda and Kad were "sold" at the time the Denationalisation Act was adopted and from the Capital Company at the time the Capital Company was established. These two companies only received their assets in order to use them to settle their obligations. Slovenia is a different case than Finland or Germany. It would probably be more comparable if you, as a proponent, the government or the Ministry of Finance, gave Austria. Österreichische Industrie Aktiengesellschaft, what problems they faced in 1960 and 1970. Because experts did not manage this property, but politics was involved. But then they turned and today Austria is one of the most successful countries in Europe, with growth, and today it is a very negligible proportion of the companies that still belong to this fund. That would be a comparison. Perhaps it would be good to learn something from these bad practices that the Austrians could pass on to better practices. You point out that it should be a public function – SDH is owned by the country 100 %, will not be privatised and can not be. There won't be any open cases here, or private investors coming in. AUKN and various Accreditation Commissions were also mentioned. Let's remember what this accreditation commission transferred to AUKN. This has also been said by the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor and, above all, by the SD, many times – that this will now be a neutral commission, which will be composed exclusively of professional decisions, in the profession. Why did the chairman of the AUKN Accreditation Commission, Dr. Kovac, resign? Because it wasn't called a profession, but politics got involved. This also means that AUKN was not a model to prevent political recruitment. The only way to get the policy out of the economy is to move the country out of the economy, and here we should talk about who are suitable buyers for Slovenian companies, under what conditions Slovenian companies will sell, which companies we will keep for strategic, what we will do with these strategic companies, what are the objectives and what we will do with the purchases. Such a debate should be today, and I think our party has set the issue in this direction. Let's get some clean wine in here with the coalition. You are responsible for the fact that we do not have a law today, that you do not respect the law, that we do not have an active holding company that we should have or could have, and that there is a considerable risk that privatisation will not go in the direction we have imagined. Respected coalition, the government is responsible for managing state property, but state property is not owned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This law, which you now sent to the National Assembly and was sent back, is that it is the government's property, and it subordinated itself to the entire holding. It was mentioned that you gave the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances so that he could look through the rod. Then give him at least the voting rights in the supervisory council, as we gave him, and as the existing law. What will be the member of the Supervisory Board who does not have the option of voting?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. This property, the state property, has not long sought and invested in strategic investments in the Balkans and in the central part of Europe. They were the main investors of the Balkans. Only 2, 3, 4 years have passed, and now these are our pearls of national interest that wanted to be the largest firms in the Balkans, one of the biggest patients. These are companies that have made the most depths within this state property, the lost property of Telekom, the banks, in the Balkans, as much as you want. You're talking about a high-quality asset manager, the AUKN. There were 17 times as many financial recapitalisations as dividends were paid in the reference year without taking into account real property recapitalisations. Those who now sell our assets at so-called investment conferences – these are not investment conferences, but they are investment sales, and from this approach, beyond all the rules, beyond all the criteria, beyond the objectives, there is no way to achieve and maximize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good evening to all your colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to the debate, I began to think about what else you could add to everything that was said, but of course you also have to think about that in the near future we will be discussing a new law that will be submitted to the National Assembly. Even if the President of the National Assembly has rejected this matter because of some shortcomings, this does not mean that we will not consider a new law in the National Assembly. Individuals assessed today the position of the Group of Members, which we presented. The position is what we thought was right, and we did not want to be offensive, nor did we think about wanting to build a coalition in any way. However, we wanted to say that last year we invested a great deal of time in achieving what we estimate is absolutely necessary for it to be enshrined in this law. For us, a particular area is crucial because we represent a particular population, not a small group, or a group, as someone said this evening, but it is a relatively large group of people, who account for about 600,000 people. Of these 600,000 pensioners, which we, among others, represent, elects our party about 10%. Everyone else is also involved in other political parties, which is right, and in our party we like to expose them very much, not only before the elections, but also during the term of office, and we are fighting for their interests. Why is it so important in this whole story, despite the fact that many say that a billion assets in Kad are not worth a mention, and that in a very short period of time, pensioners could burn this property in 4 months if they did not make the budget available to the pension fund. This is true in some way, but despite the fact that it was agreed in a social agreement in 1992, we want this to remain so. What was written in Articles 27 and 28 of the existing law is crucial to us, to our party and to our group. We want Kato to move with his resources into the demographic fund in the future. We have written this in the pension law, in this reform that we have adopted not long ago. On the whole thing, there's one thing that bothers me a lot – the views of experts, economists who make laws. When we look at those experts who designed the law that we adopted last year and look at those experts who designed and designed the law that was supposed to come to the National Assembly, they have different views, as if they did not go to the same colleges. This is where you wonder if there's a policy behind it. Believe me, there is a policy behind this, and every policy, every government would like to adapt this state property in some way to its own interests. Whether it be a left-wing policy, a left-wing government or a right-wing policy and a right-wing government. We're used to it, and those of us who've been here for a couple of years can see that. This is one of the shock themes of every government. However, I agree with this, indeed, that this state property should be managed better. I think that managing from one place is what will ensure what we want: better governance. I would not like to repeat this matter with regard to the Capital Society, but it is true that we want it to be a legal person, and we will continue to compete for so long in the drafting of this new law, that the Capital Society will be a separate legal person, that part of the assets from the sale of state property will be allocated to the pension fund, that all the funds will be used in accordance with pension and disability legislation, and that this balance sheet profit cannot be used to allocate funds to shareholders. We want it written down, and that's what it will be, I'm sure 50 million dollars is going to be spent up to 30. 9. for the coordination of pensions. These are the key questions that we, as a party representing the interests of the older population, are of great interest. At the same time, I must point out that no one would think that this is just a question of the current pensioners – this is also a question of future pensioners. So let the youngest in this Chamber think that in our parliamentary group, we are not just thinking about this population that is now in peace, but also about those who will come to peace in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u100	Thank you very much. He wants to speak with a representative of the Magnificent Government. A fly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone, at this hour! In conclusion, if we close today's debate and the indications given in it, the Government sees in particular the two segments of the comments that have been made today. One relates to the existing situation, the implementation of procedures under the existing Slovenian State Holding Act. These are mainly indications relating to privatisation and alleged lack of transparency in this regard. The second part of the debate, which was mainly devoted to the proposal for a new law, which we see in some way as heating, as a foreplay for consideration, will be when this law is actually on the table. If I touch on the first part of the privatisation of the existing situation, the applicants point out that the existing privatisation takes place without objectives, without criteria, intransparency, that other state property is not properly managed and that the Government is responsible for the management of state property. At this point, the provision of Article 38 of the existing Slovenian State Holding Act, which clearly states that the Government is not the one who manages property owned by the Republic of Slovenia, but is transferred to the Administration of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, which manages it on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. From this point of view, responsibility under the new law is very clearly defined and fully implemented by the Slovenian Compensation Society. As regards privatisation, which is currently under way, it should be pointed out that by means of a proposal, by a decree adopted by the National Assembly at the end of June, 21 June this year, the Government submitted for approval 15 privatisation companies, which you all know very well, and in the accompanying text, the objectives and criteria of privatisation were also very clearly set. The objectives of the privatisation process are clearly set. The first objective is to maximise privatisation flows that can only be used in line with the Public Finance Act to reduce public debt. This provision shall not be amended in any way. The current Public Finance Act is true, and the privatisation inflows can only be used to reduce public debt. This is clear from the document submitted for consideration at the plenary assembly on 21 June. At the same time, the document also highlights other objectives, which are broader economic objectives of privatisation, which clearly indicate that in most cases the Court, as an enforcer of the privatisation procedure, also cares for other objectives, such as the further development of privatised enterprises, the further investment of enterprises, the social responsibility of those companies and, very importantly, the maintenance of employment or even the increase of employment in those companies. From this point of view, it is difficult to assume that privatisation takes place headlessly, without objectives or even without criteria. The response of foreign markets to the proposed list of privatisation companies is good, and we believe that the objectives will be achieved through transparent procedures led by the Slovenian Compensation Society. The second part of today's debate focused on the new law. It should be pointed out here that a number of the discussions and also the comments made in the request for a reference to an extraordinary meeting refer to a version of a law that is not the same version of the law that was submitted to the National Assembly last week. Much of what has been said and what has been put before the debate today has already been written in a different version of the law submitted to the National Assembly last week. Only a few key points would be relevant in this regard. I would not want to go into too much detail because there will certainly be enough opportunities for this debate when the law is being examined, however. In the request for a meeting, the SDS Group sees the transfer of the capital company fully under the auspices of SDH as the greatest disadvantage of the new law proposal, while at the same time removing from the law the liabilities of the Capital Society to indicate EUR 50 million per year in the cash register for the coordination of pensions. You will probably see in the new version of the law that the Capital Society remains a separate legal entity and that the request for a transfer of EUR 50 million annually by 30 September remains the same as was proposed in the bill. You will probably be happy to know that the biggest flaw you see is being addressed by a new proposal for a law. The text also refers to the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. Here too, in a new version of the law, the proposal is supplemented to the extent that the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding is appointed by the National Assembly. There was a lot of talk today about the third topic, what is overly irregular in the bill and what is subnormal in it. In particular, it has been repeatedly exposed to Part 5 of the Act, Chapter 5 concerning transparency and disclosure, corruption risks and the like. It is Ambassador Jerovšek, I believe that he has well-intentionedly proposed that we write instead of this chapter ten of God's commandments into the law. Unfortunately, at least one of these would be unconstitutional. [[advertising from the hall]] If we want the law to fall before the Constitutional Court, this will not work. But the rest of us who are indisputable have already been exposed in other legislation, but they don't work. It was therefore important for the Government to pay particular attention to this chapter. It is also worth noting that this chapter is fully in line with the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption, and we believe that it deserves a special place in this law. In the light of the amendments and the last version of the law, the draft law which was submitted for public hearing and referred to by the applicants to the extraordinary meeting was forwarded to the public with a view to reaching the end of September. The government genuinely wanted to receive constructive comments on individual articles of the law and, as you will see, the proposal for a law transmitted last week to the National Assembly reflects a large part of the comments we received at the time of the public hearing. It also reflects the key shortcomings that you are exposing in your document, and from this point of view we hope to receive your support in addressing this law in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u102	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State of Mags. The bait. Even on behalf of the proposaler mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u103	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I think it has proved twice as much today that the call for an extraordinary meeting by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the administration of state property has been justified. After this meeting, we are even more concerned in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today, it has come to the conclusion that the coalition is much more on different shores than has been shown in the media. The Secretary of State must be corrected and it must be said when the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting. This law that you are quoting today has not yet been made public and has not been made known to anyone. You sent this marriage a few days ago. Be correct and do not say that the proposal for an extraordinary meeting of work on wrong assumptions. In view of the experience with this coalition and this law, which you have already presented so many times, this law has changed from day to day. In the evening he was sent from the Ministry of Finance, and this morning we had a presentation, and the minister said, "Look, three quarters of things have already been changed." How can we trust you? We just want to get answers, why you don't respect the existing law, why you're late. You're late for your new marriage. The promises were made for June, September, December. Now it's been seen that December won't be a day, either. Who is responsible for managing state property? I'm still sure it's the government. Who is the Assembly of the Slovenian Compensation Society? Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Who appoints the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society? Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Who appoints the Slovenian Compensation Company Authority? A supervisory council called the government. And you say the government isn't responsible. I don't think that's serious. Concerned, as we have said, are the resignations in the Slovenian Compensation Society, the President of the Administration, the President of the Supervisory Board of Mr Zorn, who also gave reasons – the calls of the Mayor of Ljubljana for several months to have Mr Kuntarič withdraw. These are coalition issues. The SD would still have a working representative in the supervisory board. Mr. Frangež said how he would have been chosen. That's not in this marriage, and I think there's still a lot of things here that you and the boat can get across the water if you don't sink in between. Only I am more concerned that because of all these matters, your games in the sandbox will be sunk by Slovenian privatisation, and that you will not be serious abroad. Look what's happening now. Why is privatisation necessary? Privatisation is necessary because of the obligation of the Slovenian Compensation Society, because of the state of public finances, and longer than Slovenia will delay with privatisation, several companies, honourable Members and SD Members who are concerned about national interest will have to be sold. What's going on today? Following the mandate of the Minister of Finance, the Court and the Republic of Slovenia shall come to the Assembly of Good Companies and make a counter motion after increased dividends to fill the budget. This means that I am well-standing companies today, because the budget is empty, you are collecting profits. These companies can no longer invest their profits in development, but the country does. This means that you will cripple well-established companies that will no longer survive. What is happening to privatisation because of poor governance of state property? Customers from Croatia and Serbia come and at extremely low prices buy Slovenian companies, and the longer you delay privatisation, the more prices of Slovenian companies will fall. I think that this strategy and classification should already be adopted. I think it should have been 20 years ago. The privatisation of Slovenia began 20 years ago, not in 2004 or 2005 as someone here said. I think the main thing was privatisation between 1998 and 2004. The Slovenian compensation company had over a thousand companies. In 2004, there were still 120 of them. It was the rule of LDS, SD. You don't talk about these companies. These were small businesses that were rich in real estate, and the main objective of these companies was not a business, but a property that companies went bankrupt and buyers got real estate and traded happily. You are discussing how privatisation is successful, how transparent it will be. But somehow certain information is beginning to appear when you mentioned how you successfully conducted the privatisation of Helios. The Helios buys the budget won't even get the euro because it'll be Kada and Soda's income. In recent times, however, information has been spreading in the local area that the existing administration will now forgive people. The new buyer – these are some guesses and rumors – has made a commitment not to forgive people from the company. But the transfer of these shares is supposed to take place only in 2014, and the task of the existing administration is to collect a list of those who will be fired by then, and no agreement will be breached. We'll see what we can get out of this, but that's worrying. Since there is no strategy, there is no classification, there is a considerable room for manoeuvre in that there is a risk of fishing in mud. It's probably for some coalition parties. But this is about Slovenia, about jobs, and it's also about the stability of public finances. The press has made statements by the President of the Social Democrats that if the denationalising beneficiaries waited 50 years for their money, they should wait another 50 years. I think this statement is very worrying, and probably Mr Luksic is not aware that the holders of the Slovenian Compensation Society bonds are today at the heart of the pension society. The denationalisation beneficiaries have probably already sold these cases. And to do this irreparable damage. If the compensation company does not have assets, liquid assets to pay for these cases, the State will have to give the money. I think the current coalition with this privatisation is playing too much. With this you have also accepted the responsibility to move forward, and we do not want to bargain in here. We said we would be happy to join in the drafting of this law. Some corrections, the Secretary of State, were made in comparison with that law, which was published on 17 September. They have gone in a positive direction, but some are still such that the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot support them. We have always said that we support privatisation, but one that will provide a transparent way and one that will ensure that companies will get a good buyer that will allow development that will allow new jobs. Only the Supervisory Board – The government has completely subordinated the holding and the property. The government is responsible for this, but it's not the government's property. That's how you explain it to yourself. You point out, Your Honor Secretary of State, that Kada is a single person. That's right. Who has the management rights of Kato? SDH. And when even for his assets under this law, which you sent to the National Assembly and which was rejected by the President of the National Assembly, SDH had to pay for management. This results in financial implications for the budget. Yeah, that's really better when it doesn't matter. That means he's only independent because he writes in marriage. But he doesn't have management rights, and for his assets, because someone else is going to manage him, he's going to have to pay for it. Where's your economic logic here? It is likely that the administration, as well as the supervisory board, will be most satisfied because it will receive a substantial payment, but they will not have any responsibility and will have nothing to do. I would also like to highlight the case of the Triglav Insurance Company. Transfer from ZPIZ to SDH. As a compensation, PPIZ is to be paid market value or valuation. However, there is a high risk that this ZPIZ manoeuvre will be damaged. Then SDH will sell this in one year, two years from now at a significantly higher price, and the PIC will be out of funds. We don't want to dictate to the coalition. We don't want to dictate to the government. But I would like to repeat those words, which, as a Member of Parliament at that time, today, the President of the Government, said to that working group: "We have taken an important step forward, we have improved the situation. Adopt this law, but I expect a consensus on classification and strategy." We are for this, too, but the Slovenian Democratic Party will not let privatisation take place to the detriment of taxpayers, to the detriment of businesses and the budget. Remember what recapitalisation Slovenia had during the 20-year period. Did Slovenia have one development recapitalisation? Not one, I don't remember it. We've been jamming billions of euros. Why? That we have ensured the capital adequacy of companies or that we have saved companies from bankruptcy. Come once to one company and he will say: I need a 100 million-euro recapitalisation because I will take over one company in Southeast Europe and open up a market or some new jobs. This money was always tax-paying, it was always lost. Europe, the US and Germany have also helped to collapse the banking system. Comerce Bank received quite a billion from the German state, but Comerce Bank returned the whole money plus interest within one year. Did the Slovenians ever get it back? Never. Let's look at the structure. The banking system is now likely to be repaired for the third time. Take a look at the structure of employees of responsible persons in Nova Ljubljanska Banka in 1991. Look where these people are working today. In the banking system. A little scattered, in the responsible places. But if they're not, they're their nephews or nieces. Let us imagine where we have brought this matter, and that the matter has been standing for more than a year. I expect that even during the coalition it will prevail with reason and that the privatisation and management of state property will be carried out in the way it must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u104	Thank you, Mag. A mealmaker as a proponent. With this we have exhausted the list of reported debaters, but we still have time to discuss, so I ask if anyone would like to discuss the remainder of the time. Just a minute. I'm opening up an opportunity to report to the debate. Please sign up. Thank you very much for reporting three debaters. I assume he has five minutes to discuss. The first one is Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. When we have an important debate in the National Assembly, there is almost certainly no substantive minister and there is no President of the Government. Today we are discussing the property of a country worth between €8 billion and €11 billion, worth between €1 and €1.5 of the state budget, and none of these persons are responsible. What kind of message is this? Extremely poor, extremely underestimating. That the problem is even bigger, almost all of the largest coalition parties and a large majority of all other coalition parties are missing. It is said that the management of this Parliament's assets is not in any way interested. The second thing I think is important to draw attention to is the government's opinion on this point. For the first time in the history of this National Assembly, the government has written down that it will not comply with the law on the basis of a coalition contract. In this country, this country has not yet been written by any government in any opinion. I'm just asking the government representative, since when is the coalition commitment stronger than the law? The Government of the Slovenian State Holding Act has not been in effect for more than 8 months, this government, the government of Alenka Bratušek. On the basis of an agreement, it made a conscious legal void, a suspension of the law without proposing the abolition of the law, and the National Assembly would accept it without correcting the provisions of the law without extending the transitional period without any of these techniques being applied. Do you realize what the Government has said with this view? She is not interested in the constitution because the government is obliged to respect laws and to act by law, she is not interested in laws, she is not interested in anything, but in some internal agreement between the four parties representing the ruling coalition. Alarms should be set on in this country, including in the coalition. The second regret is that the Government refers to the provisions of the non-existent law in the same paragraph during the measures taken by the Government. There are no government measures taken. As regards the law, decisions are taken, decisions taken by the National Assembly. The government is relying on its decision not to need classification or strategy, nothing, on the non-existent matter, which, as you can see, as we have heard these days, cannot be reconciled even in the coalition. Part of the coalition parties express their full support for the law they do not implement. What is an additional problem for me, however, is that one of the coalition Members has allowed himself to make a statement that we are not proposing the right proposals for conclusions. Among other things, in point 2 of the proposal for a decision, we proposed that the National Assembly should expect the Government to provide investment management and classification guidelines within 14 days. Can any of the coalition members who voted against me tell me why he did it? Is it still in the government that someone individually decides, walks around the world, sells property without having any document in his hands, and sovereignly decides what he will offer on one stock exchange, what on another stock exchange, will it be with or without a document? Nothing. There's no commitment. Apparently, you've also decided to suspend the law because you don't even want to establish it. We have proposed that within 14 days the Government also submit candidates for the Supervisory Board of State Holding under the applicable law. It's not like that either. This government has been operating for eight, nine months and has not submitted anything. You're consciously doing an illegal situation and, I can say, even an unconstitutional state. This probably isn't a statement. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. It's Mr. Pojbich's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that I am and that we are also fully convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this debate that we have held today in the National Assembly is still important. Today, many important questions have been raised here for our citizens and citizens. I am also fully convinced that in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I, too, are personally aware that the sale of a certain proportion of state property must take place. But this is not because the Slovenian Democratic Party wants you to, but because we have brought this government and this coalition and the government before that, Mr Pahor's government, this country into an extremely critical economic, financial and social situation. This is one of the key reasons why certain assets of the Republic of Slovenia must be sold. When we talk about this law, which the Government has proposed, it has also proposed a very problematic solution, and this is that the government proposes five members of the Supervisory Board to this law, which will manage state assets. So in any case, the government has an absolute majority in this supervisory world. Imagine if the following people were to sit in this world of oversight. For example, Kučan, Kocijancič, Misič, Jankovic and Zemljarič. Can citizens and citizens imagine that this is a transparent treatment of their property? But here, too, the names aren't important, and I didn't want to talk about names exclusively, but to highlight something. We fear that this property will be managed by those who come from this network. This is what is absurd, totally unacceptable, scandalous and harmful to the future of this country. I am sure that the money coming from the sale of these companies will by no means go for the purposes for which it should go, it is to pay off the interest, to pay off the debt, to invest in new jobs in the economy and so on, but will end up in the pockets of individuals to continue to be rich, as has been the case so far. I am convinced that no coalition, no government, no one in this national council can afford it, but at least allow it. This is what we want to point out in the Slovenian Democratic Party – that it is a huge fear that the matter will run this way. Why else would we be afraid that the opposition would have its place within this 5-member supervisory council? This is also what Mrs Bratušek wanted when she was in opposition, and now she is completely changing her mind, proposing completely different solutions, which are completely contrary to what she had previously advocated. Tell me how this can be understood, how this can be explained to our Slovenian man, our people, our people. And what a duality of these people – on the one hand, when they are in opposition, they say this, on the other hand, when the President of the Government is speaking a completely different thing. It is clear to everyone in this country that something is happening in the background, and the President of the Government is just a performer of what is happening in the background. I would like to draw attention to this, and I am sure that, during this debate that has taken place today, in addition to other things in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also wanted to draw attention to this lack of transparency. We're most concerned about this lack of transparency. Moreover, colleagues from the Virant List have today discussed how they are a transparent party and how crucial it is for them to act in the interests of citizens and citizens. What about Mr. Virant? Tickets. Mr. Omerzel? It's a connection in Dars, hanging from a state manger. Answer that!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u108	Mr. Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u109	Thank you for your closing statement, Madam President. We will discuss these matters, at least part of them, tomorrow. We wouldn't start today. Tomorrow we will have much more time to devote ourselves to this subject. However, I am pleased to note that virtually all of us here have found that today's debate has been useful. I join this opinion myself, thank you for having this opportunity. But I'm surprised some people do. However, a good debate is the basic purpose of this space in which we are. I personally liked the debate. Everything else will not result in better governance of state property. This will only be achieved when we adopt a new law, which will be a major step forward. Dear colleagues, you offer your hand, but from your debate there is only one thing clear: good and save is only what we have accepted in the previous government. But let me tell you, with your head through the wall, it doesn't work. Not in democracy. You may have internal methods or beheads, but all that matters is debate, argument and negotiation. And yes, unfortunately, at individual points this takes time. It's just a virtual hand. However, if you are serious, this will be clearly demonstrated in the follow-up to the SDH law, which comes to the National Assembly on a regular basis. You offer your hand, and I offer you a bet – I bet we will continue this debate on how great that law was, and the new one is all wrong, on the committee itself, and then on the plenary session. That's the hand you're offering. Unfortunately, it's not very constructive. You can do better, and you showed it last year. About the bankers, Mr. Jerovšek. We had recently adopted amendments to the Banking Act, in which we had written that courts, police and the prosecution had access to bank data related to the suspicion of crimes. And you, Mr Jerovšek, have not voted against this law. However, some of your colleagues voted against it. So I suggest you talk to them about why they objected that the courts, the police and the prosecution have access to bank data related to the suspicion of a crime. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Jerovšek did not vote against, he abstained. You can look at the voting records. I hope that next time, Mr Jerovšek, you will convince them that the rest of your colleagues who voted against this law will also support the good ideas of this coalition. Mr Pojbič, if the Government proposes these persons to the SDH Supervisory Council, I personally assure you and I promise that I will take them out individually. Otherwise, we will undoubtedly debate the expertise of the proposed persons when the Government sends them to us on our parliamentary bench to confirm them or not. We believe in the Civil Code that privatisation is the right way, because, in addition to other positive features, it will mean that politics can finally move away from seeking private benefits in state companies to what it actually aims to – to manage common issues for the benefit of all citizens, as we do in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-11-SDZ6-Izredna-49.ana.u110	Thank you very much. You have made very good use of the last word, Mr Pavlišič. This also concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation and thus concludes the procedure for addressing the proposal. I conclude this agenda item and also the meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice evening.
