ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the second paragraphs of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to listen to me as quickly as possible. I inform you that Dr. Jože Zagozhen, Member of the National Assembly, died during the period 1996-2000. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. I further inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mr. Dragutin Mate, Mr. Borut Ambrožič, Mr. Franz Pukšič [[for the beginning of the sitting]] , Mr. Janez Ribič, Mr. Matevž Frangež [[from 15 hours to 15 hours]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mrs. Melita Župevc. I invited the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Election Commission to the 2nd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to both items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 16 September 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or the extension of the agenda of the meeting, so I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be set the agenda as you have received by reference. We're moving on to a decision on the agenda. Before doing so, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. It is the first vote in the autumn part to check that everything is okay with the voting devices. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We move on to the consideration of the Conclusions on the reinstatement of the function of a Member and on the termination of the function of a Member pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on Members The Government forwarded a decision to the National Assembly of 22. 8. In 2013, according to which Gaspard Gaspard Mišić ceased to serve as State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly that it be informed on the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members as follows: 1. State assembly on the basis of a Government decision of 22. 8. 2013 notes that Gaspard Gaspard Mišić has ceased to serve as State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is therefore re-entering the post of Member today. 2. Mag. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, who served as a Member of Parliament instead of Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič at the time he served as State Secretary, shall cease to serve as a Member of State as of today. We are moving on to the examination of the conclusion on the termination of the term of office of Member of the National Assembly – Gaspar Gaspar Mišič In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that Member Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has informed me 4. 9. 2013 informs the Member of his resignation. I note that today, pursuant to Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 202(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, his term of office ends. I informed the State Election Commission of this and asked it to inform the National Assembly which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member for the remainder of the term of office, who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State drew up a report and proposed approval of the mandate and reported on its findings to the National Assembly. Allow me, on this occasion, to thank, on behalf of all my colleagues, Gaspar Gaspar Music for his work so far in the National Assembly and wish him much success in his new work. We are moving on to the examination of the Appointment of a Candidate, which, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office, conclusions on the termination of the function of a Member under Article 14 of the Law on Members and on the appointment of a candidate to act as a Member instead of a Member acting in the Government in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. Since Mr Gaspard Gaspard Misic's term of office ends today, the State Election Commission forwarded to the National Assembly the conclusion that the term of office of the Member would be transferred to Mr Aljoša Jerič. On the basis of the decision of the National Election Commission that the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly in the second Electoral Unit for the election of a Member to the National Assembly from the list of candidates List of Zoran Jankovic – Positive Slovenia has moved to Aljoša Jerič, and taking into account the fact that Aljoša Jerič replaces the elected Ambassador, Tino Komel, at the time when she holds the post of Minister in the Government, will, with the approval of the mandate of the elected candidate, Aljoša Jerič, cease to replace the Ambassador of the National Assembly, Tina Komel, at the time when she serves as Minister of Government. Taking into account the fact that Aljoša Jerič will cease to serve as a Member under Article 14 of the Law on Members, it is the right to replace Ambassador Tina Komel, the next candidate in the order of the votes obtained in the total number of votes in the constituency from list of candidates List of Zoran Jankovic – Positive Slovenia in the second constituency for the election of Members to the National Assembly. This right will go to the grave. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. The findings of the State Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. You've received the report. I ask if the rapporteur wants a word with the Commission in this case. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] Would any of the Members and Members like to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] We conclude the debate and move to a vote. For the first time, on the basis of Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and Article 212 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are voting on the following proposal for a decision: 3. 1973, resident of Lokov 122, Lokov. We are moving to a vote on this decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Secondly, pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following finding: Aljoša Jerič shall cease to act as a Member under Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly on the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members. I note that the National Assembly has taken note of the conclusion that Aljoša Jerič no longer serves as alternate Member, and that the National Assembly, based on Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is informed of the following decision: it is concluded that, today, Ambassador Aljoša Jerič has ceased to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on Justice. Thirdly, on the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we vote on the following motion for a decision: at the time when Member Tina Komel, acting in the Government, in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, cannot perform the function of a Member, he shall exercise that function in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members from today. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, born 18. Seven. 1954, resident at Oaks 9, Kromberk. We are moving to a vote on this decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On this occasion, I would like to ask my colleague, Aljoša Jerič and Mag. I'm holding Bon Klanjšček to join us in the hall and take their seat. Welcome back. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is an exploratory proposal for a recommendation on the problem of the resolution of private banks and banks with Slovenian nationals. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Governor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! A few days ago we received news that two banks were going, and these are very small banks in the Slovenian banking system, in the so-called controlled liquidation – Probanka and Factor Bank, which have a total share of less than 4%. For these obligations and for them they will guarantee the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In other words, on their behalf, a state with a guarantee of a billion 30 million. The State will also turn the deposits held by these banks into ownership shares, which is the decision of the Government on the one hand. If this is not sufficient for 400 million additional recapitalisations, then there will be payments by the State. After all, it's nothing like that. Two banks went to hell, and they have the right to go to hell. The question is, who will pay the funeral expenses? The supervised liquidation means that these two banks will gradually step out of the market, as government representatives like to say, for three years on the basis of a specific programme written by the Administration and likely to be adopted in Banka Slovenije. These two banks are out of the market for illiquidity. In other words, banks don't have or didn't have enough money to pay their debts. The law gives more options. Gives the possibility of bankruptcy, gives the possibility of liquidation, gives the possibility of recapitalisation. This means socialisation. It means socialising all claims by paying citizens and citizens all wrong decisions, all wrong decisions by administrations, wrong decisions by supervisory authorities, wrong decisions by supervisory boards, etc. It means more – that the state has acknowledged that these two banks are systemic banks, or Bank of Slovenia or Government. This means that the expectations of international markets, international institutions and the public will be such that banks will have to be rescued in the future if Slovenian banks become critical in this way. It was said that this way does not prejudge the way in the future. However, it has to be said here that in the debates it has already been said that any other way would have been an alarm between depositors. These two things are contrary to each other, and I will also say this further, because this is why the Government and Banka Slovenije are closing the way to other solutions. What does the Slovenian banking system define? It has a guarantee scheme, which means that deposits up to 100,000 euros are secured by guarantees from other banks and ultimately by the state guarantee. Deposits over 100,000 euros are not secured. As a result, investors will have to look even more closely at the bank to which they will deposit these deposits in the future. The question of depositors, depositors with up to 100,000 euros is not really a question. There were more than 100,000 euro deposits in these banks for 231 million and the recapitalisation would amount to 400 million, which means that we are saving those depositories that have more than 100,000 euros. We're saving the rich or at least the more wealthy, anyway. If such a solution were to be applied to all banks in Slovenia, that would mean a burden or probably a debt of EUR 14 billion. Slovenia does not have this money and it is likely that Slovenia cannot receive this money today in international financial markets. Or it can get 14 billion at an extremely high interest rate, one that for future generations means only paying off interest for future generations. It does not mean development, it means paying off interest, which is already today, because we are already paying almost a billion interest. What does that mean? The State and thus taxpayers have taken on a greater burden than they should have. All depositors over 100,000 euros are happy and probably open champagne. Before that, some owners also paid dividends. The Bank of Slovenia has found that in these banks there are relations between supervisors, administrations and the largest depositors, namely, such relations, I will say, which are not transparent. In other words, the owners were the largest depositaries. The biggest owners probably paid off their deposits, paid off their dividends, and left an empty bank to the state. Some say that it is here, we can say, an incestous relationship that the Bank of Slovenia has established. It has taken certain measures and the issue of monitoring these measures and how effective these measures have actually been. It is known that certain privatisations of companies were also financed in these banks in order to deal with customeristic links. Here we can ask ourselves whether the actual purpose of the establishment was, if not already established, at least the operations of these two banks, to be ultimately surprised, to be left empty, inequitable, capital-inadequate, and to transfer the entire burden to citizens and citizens, to taxpayers. Business continuity – it is likely that the supervision of these two banks will show that it was mostly one and the same people, including others, but mainly one and the same who act as owners, as depositaries, as supervisors and also as members of administrations. Here's the question on the spot. There is also a question of how and how the country will act in the future. We estimate that the state will not be able to save the bank in the same way. In other words, it will have to act with other funds, by bankruptcy, and explain to the inhabitants and residents of the country why socialisation of losses is not possible and why, if we are talking about two relatively small banks with a market share of just over 4%, this is the only possible way. We don't think so. The Slovenian Democratic Party is responsible for its views, not by making any kind of alarm, but by taking any uncontrolled action. It therefore requires a report with grounds for liquidation or for such a method. In addition, the nominal list of persons with deposits of more than EUR 100,000, the adoption of legislation that will freeze all the roles of owners, supervisors, members of administrations and their related persons, the list of payments of more than EUR 100,000 and documentation relating to the supervision of these two banks by the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia provides for measures in the banking field. The Council of the Bank of Slovenia works – I think the meetings are held every week, for 14 days as well. The Minister and Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy are invited by law to this meeting. There, in the way determined by Banka Slovenije, decisions are taken on what is going to happen to our banking system, how the banking system will work and how it is controlled. In the event of bank liquidations or bankruptcys, something else is important – ensuring accountability. Responsibilities have not yet been established in the Slovenian banking system. We always come up with a concept called bank secrecy. However, we need to know that in bankruptcy proceedings, there is no more bank secrecy in liquidation procedures. If citizens and citizens, with their taxes, save these banks with their contributions, also rescue private banks, then they will also require responsibility – the responsibility of supervisors, the responsibility of administrations, the responsibility of owners. Ownership is not just some good, ownership is a responsibility. Given that today we have a financial and banking crisis in a world where it has already ceased – we have had a severe crisis in Europe – there are different concepts of how to name actions in the banking system in the past and perhaps even now. Der Spiegel magazine mentioned the term banking banditry. Let us ask ourselves whether we also have banking banditry and whether we are dealing with banking banditry through these measures. If so, then the measures are wrong. The money of citizens and citizens is not intended to save banking banditry. It is designed to make the country feel safe, and it is designed to increase standards and prosperity for all people on the basis of this money, their money. The main purpose of this meeting is to determine on specific occasions what the situation in the banking system is, how secure the banking system is, what the Minister can provide, what the Governor can provide, not us, but especially the citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The proposal for a recommendation was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 65th emergency meeting, on 18 June. 9. 2013 as a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation on the problem of the resolution of private banks Probanke and Factor Bank with the money of Slovenian citizens, EPA 1406-VI, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Jože Tank. The Committee was given an opinion on the Legislative and Legal Service and amendments were tabled within the time limit for the members of the coalition, amendments to paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, amendments to the SDS Group's amendments to paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 and recommendations to paragraphs 6 and 7. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings. The introductory explanation of the proposal for the recommendation was given on behalf of the applicant by a member of the Committee and a Member of the SDS mag Group. Andrej Šircelj, who presented the current situation and the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance initially presented the legal basis on which a decision was taken on the controlled liquidation of the two banks. He said that it was clear that banks do not have a long-term sustainable model and it is better to leave Slovenia's banking market. In the debate, the vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia presented various ways of resolving the situation and presented and explained why they had opted for a controlled liquidation. It stated that in early September, both banks had a rapid tightening of the liquidity situation, drawing attention to the high sensitivity of depositors to any bad information relating to banks. In the debate, members of opposition groups asked mainly about the causes of the rapid deterioration of the liquidity situation in both banks and when Banka Slovenije first found that there were problems in these banks and what measures it had taken in this regard. Following the discussion, the Committee identified itself until the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and did not accept them. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on and adopted all the parts and the title of the draft decision. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for an act incorporating the amendments has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The draft act is also an integral part and a proposal for adoption at the National Assembly. Allow me, on this occasion, some of your observations on the course of the session. I think that the solution to the problem would be more constructive and could be given more answers if the applicant requested a closed meeting because it is very disturbing that a lot of questions remain unanswered because, under the Banking Act, they cannot be given at a public meeting. Maybe it could be a better session. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. The meeting raised a question to the Ministry of Finance in the light of the ECB's agreement on this guarantee. It has been said that this guarantee is of a temporary nature that the final guarantee concerning the issuance of the bank guarantee will be only after the adoption of the Bank’s liquidation act, which is to be prepared within 45 days, which means that in some ways we have a guarantor, that a bank guarantee of EUR 20 million may still have to wait for the ECB’s final decision on the granting of this guarantee as a form of State aid. Maybe that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The draft report was also addressed by the Government. I give the floor to Dr. Uros Chufer, Minister of Finance, to explain my opinion in an introductory manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! After a long time of parliamentary holidays, we will see each other again, and I am glad to be here again. As you can see, we've been active in the middle, and I'm glad to be here again. I would also like to thank you for this call of extraordinary meeting, because I think that this is a topic that is worth talking about, too, given that we have engaged quite a bit of tax money and that at a time when we squeeze and save, on the other hand, we use the taxpayer's money not to save banks, but to maintain the stability of the financial system, which is sometimes difficult for normal and ordinary citizens to understand, the possibility that we can explain. I understand and welcome that Members request and also expect greater transparency in this area. Just by expecting and demanding greater responsibility in this area. These are two perfectly normal processes that have taken place not only in Slovenia but also in most European countries that have already been in a situation where they had to liquidate a bank in a controlled way. Most of these banks that were liquidated in a controlled way, if not all, were privately owned. This is what triggers quite a dilemma and controversy, but in the end all the solutions and all the conclusions, including in other countries, go into the fact that this is the most appropriate procedure for normal business. When I looked at what they were talking about in other countries on these occasions, there were three-way debates. I expect that to be the case with us today. The first is whether the taxpayers' money spent on maintaining the stability of the system is properly used to determine whether this decision was correct. Secondly, who is responsible for whether there has been any abuse in these banks and who should be punished for it. The third thing that is most constructive and even most appropriate is whether there are any systemic improvements that we can make on our system, that if we come into a similar situation, costs may be lower or even better if we can prevent such a situation at all. If I start by saying that when we were faced with the initiative of the Bank of Slovenia – this initiative came before it was formally given – we talked about it together, we weighed what was the lesser evil. Is it less evil to put a bank in bankruptcy or is it less evil to put a bank in a controlled liquidation? We had no third option because all the other options were already exhausted, and we had only two other bad choices. The costs in both cases were comparable. The fact is even that in the case of controlled liquidation costs are slightly lower, because when you look at not only the first step that is the easiest to calculate – you should also look at the second step, what would happen in the event of bankruptcy, if we are in some uncontrolled liquidation when not all processes are under control, and where it can all spread. That is why it is best to say what bankruptcy means in practice. It's not something that happens in one day and then the next day life is normal. This is not something that can be completely isolated from the rest of the environment, and this is not something that is completely without consequences on normal business. Anyway, these two banks are small. Together, they represent 4 to 5% of the Slovenian banking system. This means that around 4 to 5% of the Slovenian banking system, the roles of individuals, businesses are frozen when we have a credit crunch. This also means that not only do they freeze for as long as it takes, I don't know, a small period, but until the whole process has been completed to pay off the assets so that the bankruptcy manager knows for sure how much money can be paid to each individual. In Slovenia, where there is already a credit crunch, this would mean that we only sharpen it further. For no particular reason, we can get a substantial amount of money out of circulation in Slovenia than we need to engage it so that we can do it in a controlled way. The bankruptcy means a lot more, but it's probably later, after the questions come up. Perhaps I would give a little more emphasis to the context in which the decision was taken. You know that the banking system in Slovenia is now relatively weak. Trust is limited, stress tests and assist quality reviews are conducted by international auditors under the supervision of not only the Bank of Slovenia, but also the European Commission and the ECB. We've got a credit crunch that's still not over and it's still going on. In such a case, to go into any form of uncontrolled bankruptcy, where all processes and all behaviour of all factors on the market, not only savers up to EUR 100,000, including savers over EUR 100,000, not only in this bank, even in any other bank, including external investors, could lead to this being playing with lighters in a space where there are very many vapours and where this is usually advised. Our baseline plan, since we had known for a long time that these two banks were weak banks, was that the process should be reversed, that we should first strengthen the system banks to recapitalise them, transfer the claims to a bad bank, and only then would these two banks. Unfortunately, the process could not have been this, because we had an external restriction that a stress test and an Asset quality review should have been imposed, which not only lasted a limited period, but took a long time. Until then, it has not been possible and it is still not possible to strengthen the system's part of the banking system so that perhaps the two banks could then move in another way. This has already been pointed out by our associates in the beginning. This is an important element because this means that the review of claims does not only mean a delay in the removal of the credit crunch, which is pre-conditional for the transfer of bad claims out, but also that there is an increased risk of financial instability due to the fact that this meant that there must be a way for these two banks to withdraw from the market operationally without error. We must not afford any slippage, no drawbacks, and we have worked hard in this direction. Our greatest risk, when we prepared this, was whether any talk would escape before we were sure we could guarantee it. I think we did pretty well. Unfortunately, getting one bank out of the system isn't a nice job after all, but there's one you get in your wallet that needs to be made, and when you try to do it, you try to make it as professional as possible. I think the decision we made was right. If I had to take it again now, I'd make that kind of decision, and I think it's the right thing to do. After all, controlled liquidation in the European Union is a standard procedure for withdrawing one bank from the market. In quite a few countries there have been quite a few banks that have been liquidated in a controlled way, and I think there have been no recently that would have been put into bankruptcy in an unsupervised manner. So I think that, as far as this is concerned, we are not giving up in anything, and it is therefore entirely natural that we have been given permission by the European Commission to do so and we have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u7	Thank you, too, Minister. I give the floor to Dr. Boštjan Jazbec to present the position of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Good afternoon, President, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, for the first time in this Chamber – I hope not for the last time – in particular to explain our actions and, above all, our steps towards greater information and prevention of any speculation arising out of misunderstanding or ignorance of the operation of both the Bank of Slovenia and the banking system. Why the decision to shut down the two banks and the ways in which we did it? In particular, because both banks have gone into liquidity problems that have increased to this point in recent months, so that any easy leaving of these two banks on the market could have far greater consequences for the entire banking system and, above all, financial stability. We have in mind, in particular, three aspects of deciding on the controlled cessation of the operation of the two banks. From the perspective of the Bank of Slovenia, these three aspects were first of all financial stability and security of deposits. Secondly, the cost aspect, the third aspect, the interesting aspect, was not taken into account in our decision because it is a decision and an aspect which the Bank of Slovenia, as the central regulator and supervisor of the banking system, does not want and will never take into account. Why don't you break both banks? In particular, because in our opinion there would be an excessive burden on financial stability in the rest of the banking sector, which is not in the best condition today. You know that there are asset quality reviews and burden tests in 10 banks, now only 8 banks that would give us an accurate assessment of the size of the bad claims in these banks and allow us to start transferring bad claims to the Company for Bank Claims Management. In the meantime, the situation in both banks has created a demand for our reaction. Our reaction was mainly aimed at ensuring the safety of the savers in these two banks. As has already been said, all deposits, all deposits in both banks totalling EUR 631 million. Only guaranteed deposits, the role of guaranteed savers, which in this case represent natural persons and small legal persons, are about 400 million. The difference of 231 million is the role of small businesses and, above all, of economies. In both banks, there are a total of 35,000 depositors with an average of €11,000. All deposits over EUR 100,000 are negligiblely small, and from this point of view they represent the role of the economy, which in the event of bankruptcy would result in a large liquidity contraction. What would happen – after the activation of the guarantee scheme, which does not have a fund in Slovenia, which could draw the payment of guaranteed deposits up to EUR 100,000, all banks should contribute EUR 400 million to the payment of guaranteed deposits, the role of guaranteed savers. Since the Slovenian banks do not have this money today, the country should contribute €400 million immediately in order to be able to pay guaranteed deposits up to €100,000 within 20 working days. All deposits over €100,000 – including the role of municipalities, mainly from Primorska and Štajerska, and the role of the State – would be frozen until the bankruptcy is over. In view of the bankruptcy legislation and in particular the inefficiency of the towing bankruptcy proceedings, it is likely that the payment of all remaining deposits or assets from these banks would be expected only within one year, i.e. approximately 40% of all bad claims or deposits in these banks. I cannot imagine how the Slovenian banking system would react if it were to provide an additional EUR 400 million for the deposits of guaranteed savers and what would happen to all small entrepreneurs and other legal entities in total amount of EUR 231 million if they did not decide to terminate both banks in a controlled manner. I'd like to know before we decided to shut down both banks, but I don't have that knowledge, neither do I, nor any of my associates, and probably not you. As you know, no one could even comment, let alone suggest different solutions over the weekend when we had to make a decision Friday afternoon. Most of the commentators and most of the critics of our decision did not appear until Monday afternoon, when they found that there was no pressure on the rest of the Slovenian bank and that in principle financial stability was ensured. Whether it is in fact assured, we do not know because we are still in the process of verifying the quality of the asset and the burden tests. The first results will be known in October or late November. At that time, perhaps this debate we have today would have been slightly different because we will then know exactly what the Slovenian banking system is like. Until we know, however, the decision we have taken at Banka Slovenije and proposed to the Ministry of Finance is, in my opinion, the only correct one, since it allows us to continue cleaning the balance sheets of Slovenian banks and gives us at least little opportunity to revive economic growth, which in any case will be able to contribute to the payment of all debts that we will always have to pay in the final phase. Any controlled termination of the operation of banks and any bankruptcy of banks would in any event be paid by taxpayers. Our decision was only from the point of view, once again, of financial stability and of as little cost to taxpayers as possible. All the requests for a reference to this meeting relating to the Bank of Slovenia will be met, but within the framework of legal powers, which means that some of the data due to respect for the Banking Act simply cannot be given. But it is true that it is up to you Members to change this law if you think otherwise. In this case, however, Slovenia will be the only country to have a different law dealing with the confidentiality of data. Banking and the operation of banks are based on confidentiality of data, and in this case it is the central bank that must respect and monitor this law. Many times, the Bank of Slovenia’s criticisms are not justified, mainly from the point of view of the failure to perform the task and the failure to issue the measures. Why? Between 2007 and 2013, 62 specific measures were taken for both banks, Factor Bank and Probank. In 6 cases, we even had to state the suspicion of crimes to law enforcement authorities. It is not at the Bank of Slovenia to prosecute crimes committed in banking. This work must be carried out by the other authorities. Believe me, whenever there is any suspicion of a crime or any need to react to the Bank of Slovenia, this always happens. The State guarantee was also mentioned, which the Government had to issue on behalf of taxpayers in order to be able to carry out a controlled termination procedure for both banks. This guarantee means only the way in which both banks can pay off deposits that are time-consumingly inconsistent with all claims arising from the assets of the banks. This is a liquidity loan that allows all 631 million both guaranteed savers and other legal entities to be paid out in a way that will not cause further shocks in the Slovenian banking and financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u9	Thank you also to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. We took note of this presentation of the position of Banka Slovenije. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, Minister, to the governor with his co-worker! Nice greetings to everyone else too! Your Honor! We're here today. I have to say, for me, there's not a very clear reason. The SDS Group and the first-signed Mr Tanko requested an extraordinary meeting with one item on the agenda – with a proposal for a recommendation on the problem of the resolution of private banks Probanke and Factor Bank with the money of Slovenian citizens. Let us begin with the answer to the simple question: Why? If I can explain what the simple question seems to be, why? Why, we can ask each other twice. Why is the meeting convened at all, and why save private banks if I continue in the sensationalist jargon of citings, with the money of Slovenian citizens? This issue is ongoing especially after the performance of both my predecessors. In their justification, the callers raised quite a few concerns about the decision of the Government and the Bank of Slovenia. The least I can say to that is: Interesting. Banka Slovenije, central bank of the Republic of Slovenia, and members of its decision-making bodies shall be independent under the Bank of Slovenia Act and shall not be bound by the decisions, positions and instructions of state or any authority, nor shall they be addressed in accordance with instructions or guidance. That's really interesting. Somehow I can't believe the references to this at the appeal of an extraordinary session didn't know. That was really amazing. Why am I so devoted to this question? The answer is simple, and I believe it's understandable. When we look at what recommendations the citing party proposes to the National Assembly for adoption, and when we see what the powers of the National Assembly are in relation to the Bank of Slovenia, I return to the question raised at the introduction of why the meeting is today convened. My concern is also attached to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which rejected the recommendations proposed as recommendations outside the competence of the National Assembly. This rejection covered as many as 4 out of 5 recommendations. Again, dearly respected, I must ask myself why we are gathered today at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. That's the first reason I'm coming back. Let's keep going. The second reason I pointed out was: why save private banks with the money of Slovenian taxpayers? They probably wanted to ask why the Bank of Slovenia and the Government decided to use the so-called controlled liquidation or why they did not simply allow the bankruptcy of both banks, I stress, private banks, as this option is also permitted by the Banking Act. Your Honor, I'm sorry, but I have to say, it's not true, but I'm sorry. In Europe, by the way, they have had to recapitalise banks in all countries over the last five years, including Germany, to which we like to refer. We know that the recapitalisation of purely private banks has also been made with tax money. Why private banks? Simply because, in Slovenia, the majority shares of the state in systemic banks and major banks are much lower. May I also point out that, in accordance with the new European Commission rules on State aid, Member States should encourage the withdrawal of failed banks from the market. This means that when a bank or its owners are unable or unable to establish a long-term successful business, Member States must carry out the exit procedure. This procedure must be guided by maintaining the financial stability of the entire system. Who is responsible for financial stability? Bank of Slovenia, with respect. The Bank of Slovenia is the one responsible for ensuring financial stability. As a provider of financial stability, the Bank of Slovenia weighed two options offered in the case of both banks. It weighed whether to allow bankruptcy and thus cause great uncertainty in the financial system as a whole, including the losses to be settled by Slovenian citizens. Only guaranteed deposits of up to 100,000 euros would be paid, and this would be in some 20 days. Economic private operators, as well as public entities, would be forced to wait for their funds to be recovered after the bankruptcy proceedings have been concluded. We can talk about it for a few years. The Commissioners should settle their obligations immediately. This means that loans should be repaid immediately, regardless of the utility of those loans. By the way, this would, inter alia, destroy the Slovenian Ski Association, which should immediately repay almost a million loans to one of the banks concerned. On the other hand, the assessment of the decision on controlled liquidation, in which ordinary creditors would freely dispose of their assets, would be secure, irrespective of their level, loans to banks would be returned on unaltered terms, and the State would guarantee this through the guarantees issued by the Republic of Slovenia for the obligation to draw on a direct loan in extreme force. I don't know if there's anything else to add here. Perhaps it is only because of the interconnection of both banks with other financial institutions in Slovenia that they would infect them with bankruptcy. The symptoms of infection would be the reduction of the payment capacity and level of capital throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The bankruptcy would also put an end to activities such as payment services, which would mean for the Slovenian economy, and I am sure that this would be a fatal burden. The infection would also cause the savers to start in fear of raising their stakes, leading to the collapse of the entire financial system. The introduction of bankruptcy would significantly increase the lack of confidence in Slovenian banks, and any problems in the payment of these funds arising already due to advertising proceedings would increase the lack of confidence in other Slovenian banks, and thus the uncontrolled outflow of deposits abroad. I will only add to this that the reactions of investors or the non-response of investors in terms of deposit swaps in all other banks confirm agreement on the way in which both banks are rescued. This is also the best answer for all those, especially those who refer to today's extraordinary meeting, why the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not allow bankruptcy, why they did not allow the loss of an unimaginable number of jobs, why they did not allow the collapse of the banking system, why they did not allow pressure on public finances, Slovenian taxpayers in the form of a large number of new compensations for the unemployed, social assistance etc. I'll go back to looking simple again, why. Why is this extraordinary session convened today? It would be naive to believe that, for the first time, to present to the National Assembly the measures which, I stress, have been reached by the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia with a hand in hand. For the first time, we have witnessed the coordinated functioning of the highest executive branch of the Authority, President of the Government of Mags. Alenke Bratušek, Minister of Finance Dr. Uroš Čufer and independent regulator and supervisor, Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Boštjan Jazbec. For the first time, we have witnessed such cooperation by two separate bodies. Why my naive expectation? Because, unfortunately, that's just not the way it is. Some of us simply cannot or cannot understand that decisions can also be made in agreement and cooperation. When I read the conclusions of the recommendations made by the citing party, I cannot help but wonder where I live. Do we not have in our constitution a written division of power to the legislative — that is, to the executive — these are the Government and the law enforcement authorities, and to the judiciary? The recommendations made by the reference to the decision-making procedure do not give rise to this. Moreover, in his debate on the working body, one of the signatories asked, I repeat, for legal grounds to be found or if they cannot be found, for them to be created. However, this Member demanded that personal data be disclosed, that a number of provisions of the laws and at least two — the law governing bank secrecy and the law governing the protection of personal data — be violated. Once again, I will not mention the Constitution where the division of power is defined in Article 3 and will not mention the Bank of Slovenia Act, where the relationship between the Bank of Slovenia and the National Assembly is defined in Article 26. Members of the National Assembly, representatives of the highest legislative branch of government, we cannot in any way ask the Bank of Slovenia to knowingly violate the laws that we have adopted only as a reminder in this house. Moreover, the representatives of the legislative authority from the Bank of Slovenia cannot ask anything more than to report on their work to us within the scope of their powers. Pika. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will not use manners that remind us of totalitarian systems, such as the North Korean system, where all power and power are gathered in one body or a man who has the power to prosecute, accuse and condemn someone. We won't agree to such rules and we won't agree to them. Why don't we agree to the game that citing us? Simply because we believe in the rule of law, we believe in the independence of organs and institutions because we believe in innocence until proven otherwise. We simply believe in democracy and democracy. We believe that an extraordinary administration in both banks, which, by the way, has 45 days to present further measures, will, in cooperation with the competent law enforcement authorities, act in all detected irregularities. We believe this without demanding that the legislation be violated without exceeding the powers we have as a legislator. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I've made quite an understanding of what I've initially asked the seemingly simple question of why. In presenting the position of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will take the opportunity to thank the President of the Government, Mrs Bratušek, Minister of Finance, Mr Cuffer, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Jazbec and the whole Government, for having managed in these difficult, sensitive and uncertain times enough courage and expertise and for adopting the best possible solution in the given situation. They have also received the praise of the European authorities for such a step. I also congratulate them that they have kept the measures to the end in secret and thus prevented any possible panic under the Cyprus scenario. Thank you! Dear Members, in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we support the proposals for revised conclusions. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Jerk Chehovin. I ask my fellow Members to listen to the views of the groups of Members without comment, as the discussions will be possible below. Now he's got the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister, Honourable Governor, Colleagues and Colleagues! The banking system in Slovenia has been in crisis since 2009, and the SDS party has been among the first to warn that the banking system needs to be repaired, otherwise the crisis will only deepen and the start of the economy will not be possible. The crisis of the banking system has only deepened under the rule of the Pahor government. Today, Slovenian companies pay substantially higher interest than competing companies abroad, or they can't even reach credits. The largest system banks, NLB, have been reduced by 8 times since 2009. A very clear picture of the state of Slovenian banking was given by a rating rating of Standard & Poor's, which wrote days ago that Slovenia's banking system is in a situation similar to that of Kazakhstan. Who's responsible for all this? This is of particular interest to the SDS client, and I assume that taxpayers as well. The current President of the Republic of Borut Pahor admitted a bad year ago that during his government the problem of banks had been underestimated and misdiagnosed. In view of the state of the three system banks, New Ljubljana Banks, New Credit Banks Maribor, Banks, and the liquidation of two private banks, Factor Bank and Probanks, it could be concluded that Slovenian banks are essentially some sort of self-service trade in which some voters entered and stepped past the cash registers. No one asked them why they go through the cash registers and get goods at a very discounted price or practically free. We'll pay the bill to the taxpayers. The Bank of Slovenia, as regulator in this area, has not detected anything. It has not taken any remedial action, taken no action or conclusions in this area. At least not that the public would ever be aware of it. A few months ago, Governor Marko Kranjec assured the banking system was stable. It is interesting that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption to date, has not found any corruption in the banking system, even less, to make any concrete findings, despite the many in the sky that go to hundreds, millions or even billions of euros. The first to become seriously involved in the resolution of the banking system was strongly opposed by the government of Janez Janša, who drafted the so-called Bad Bank Act, which was strongly opposed by the then opposition, the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, to submit signatures for the referendum, despite the fact that the parties of Positive Slovenia and the SD were invited to participate in the drafting of the law. Fear of exposing bank irregularities was so great that the government of John Janša had to fall. On Friday, 6 September, in the evening, the Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Boštjan Jazbec and the Minister of Finance Dr. Uroš Čufer announced that the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance had decided to liquidate two private banks, Factor Bank and Probank. The main question before us is why the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije have decided to take such measures. The explanations were sceptical and, as has been found in further discussions, in some cases even misleading. In the SDS, we estimate that it is unacceptable for taxpayers to cancel private bank obligations while administrations, supervisors and depositors with more than 100,000 euros of Probanka and Factor Bank obviously will not bear any responsibility for the situation. The question arises why the stress tests of banks were not expected to end and why it did not wait for the deadline for the recapitalisation of both banks in liquidation. The question is whether the model chosen to resolve the two private banks will be used to resolve the entire banking system, including the three largest system banks, New Ljubljana Banks, New Maribor Banks and Banks. Who will be responsible for the situation? To what extent could Banka Slovenije act differently as regulator in the past and what is the responsibility of Banka Slovenije for the situation? The words of the current Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Jazbec, who stressed on the Committee on Finance that the situation as it is is is due to the fact that no action has been taken in the past. The country has given banks billions and 30 million euros in guarantees. The final cost for taxpayers and guarantees issued is estimated to be €400 million, but also perhaps higher, as it will only be fully demonstrated by liquidation. However, the fact is that all ordinary creditors of the Factor Bank and Probank will receive all deposits paid in full regardless of whether they are natural or legal persons, owners or members of former and current bank administrations or supervisors who have apparently not done their part. The problem that we see in the SDS is the full payment of all creditors, including those responsible for the collapse of banks. The Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije, through the resolution of two small banks on the taxpayers' shoulders, have wandered the main idea of the European Banking Union, which assumes that failing banks should be the first to be rescued by shareholders, owners of different bonds and deposit holders over 100 000 euros. In doing so, it is crucial that the country has issued EUR 1 billion of guarantees for two private banks with a total market share of 4%. In the SDS we estimate that the tax money spent will not bring the banking system back to life or make it operational, as there remains an unresolved main problem – the rehabilitation of inactive banks, NLB, NKBM and Abank. If the same approach were to be taken for the remaining banks, the country would need at least EUR 14 billion to be rehabilitated. 14 billion euros! The state has decided to rescue, in particular, savers and businesses with deposits in both banks over €100,000 through the liquidation of two private banks. All holders of ordinary bonds will also be protected and paid — those who have bought their bonds from both banks in the past to ensure their liquidity. These were mainly companies which were owned by banks. The ACH managers and the bank's biggest owners have in the past paid off more than EUR 30 million dividends, and they have not found money to save the bank now. The Slovenian Democratic Party expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance to disclose a list of persons with deposits of more than 100,000 euros. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia to disclose a list of persons who have paid more than 100,000 euros from these banks over the past year. Banka Slovenije has always referred to bank secrecy. True, but the current situation is different. Banks are liquidated and private banks will be rescued by taxpayers. It would be fair for the taxpayers to know who we're going to save. Let's get this out of the way. It was mentioned earlier that Germany and America were also saving banks with tax money. That is true, too, but within six months, the state received the money back with interest. This has not been done in Slovenia, and I believe that this will not be done in this case either. In the SDS we wonder why the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije have not done calculations of other ways of resolving these banks. The fact is, the country has given EUR 1.3 billion in guarantees to private banks. The problems of both banks have been reported by the media for at least a year. In the annual reports, the banks also lit the red light as well as the auditors. We therefore estimate that Banka Slovenije has not done enough and that it assumes the greatest responsibility for this. Probanka’s accounting report, April 26 – Deloitte, wrote for Probank: “The capital risk, the repeated loss of business and the insufficient equity of the group give rise to considerable doubt as to the ability of the group to continue as a functioning company.” April 26th, 2013! The PWC audit report for Factor Bank, produced by the PWC Audit House: "The financial position of the group and the unplanned activities to maintain the group's capital adequacy and liquidity – these circumstances indicate that there is a significant uncertainty that could raise substantial doubts about the group's ability to continue as a non-acting company." April 25th. Why did the Bank of Slovenia not react then? Would it have required a guarantee of more than one billion if you had responded then? Maybe it would be less because people couldn't get money out of the bank. It's very interesting when we look at the structure of the control board in Probank. According to the media in 2012, the National Bank of Serbia banned life work in all banks due to fraud in Agrobank. Has the Bank of Slovenia been informed about this? Why has the Bank of Slovenia not acted in these matters? On 29 August, Vera Mihatovic became President of the Supervisory Board of the Factor Bank. It is even more worrying that Taista Vera Mihatovic is today also a member of the Supervisory Board of First Pension Company A. The Supervisory Board of this company is also the last President of the Management Board of the Factor Bank of Cyril. Does this mean that in a few days we can record in the media that another pension company will go into liquidation and that we will also pay taxpayers? These are questions that need to be clarified in order to take responsibility. Who's responsible? We estimate that Banka Slovenije has not completed in the last period the tasks for which it is entitled under the Banka Slovenije Act and under the Banka Slovenije Act. We are concerned in the SDS because the data shows that these two banks owned deposits from connected state companies, municipalities for more than €650 million. In 2010, the State gave the Bank a State guarantee for a 100 million-dollar bond, 44% of all deposits and loans made to the Probank banks representing the state-owned SID of the Bank. Will someone responsible for the money of the country trapped in the failed banks be responsible for the risky moves and be exposed? Probably not. Because they're going to go into a controlled liquidation, there's going to be a lot of hidden stuff. The explanations of the Ministry of Finance and Bank of Slovenia have been sceptical and misleading in some of the debates that have proved to be. All the media said that the European Commission had agreed to do so. The European Commission has given temporary consent. Why has it not been presented to the media that the European Commission has given temporary consent and that the emergency management must prepare a liquidation plan within 45 days and the European Commission will decide again? What happens if the European Commission fails to give the green light back? It was a concrete question why the state did not decide that it would be a cheaper option for these two banks to recapitalise. The answer was clear: it would be very unlikely or nothing to prove to the European Commission that the bank could continue its business. This is all the data that shows that someone did not react at the right time and that Banka Slovenije as regulator here has again failed. Interesting question – do we now have "friends in bankruptcy" after "friends in bankruptcy". Why was he, as a member of the Extraordinary Administration, also with the consent of Banka Slovenije, named Matevž Slapčar, the first supervisor of Mercury and at the same time a member of the Extraordinary Administration of the Bank Factor? Mercury is led by Blaž Pesjak, son of Boris Pesjak, founder and former first man Factor Bank. Conflict of interest – this is also somehow recognised by the members of the Bank of Slovenia on the last committee. In the SDS party, we rightly ask ourselves whether this is the right way to rescue banks, whether we really need taxpayers to rescue private investors and whether the liquidation of banks is just a tool to avoid accountability and that all irregularities, as so far, will be covered. No, the SDS party will go all the way here, and we will fight for all the things to be revealed here and that the people responsible will take responsibility – those who managed these two banks, especially the regulator, Banka Slovenije. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u14	I'm seriously counting on a repeat after my debate. Dear and respectable Mr. Governor, Mr. Secretary! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u15	I'm asking you for peace in the hall! Mr. Frangež, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. September 15, 2008. On that day, the US Investment Bank Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy and filed bankruptcy. In a relative sense, this bank was about as fateful and as large as the two private banks we are talking about at this meeting today, with a relative weight of between 4 and 5%. Since the US financial authorities had not reacted adequately in months before, this bank went bankrupt and there was a remarkable spiral effect when the instability and bankruptcy of one bank led not only to the collapse of the American financial order but also to the global financial order. The first thesis to be highlighted at the margins of today's session is that the Slovenian financial authorities did not repeat in September 2013 the errors of the US monetary authorities in 2008. In view of the fact that there were several speculations in public about the threatening bankruptcy and fracture of the two banks, it is correct that the Bank of Slovenia, together with the Ministry of Finance, acted preventively and that in a situation where the poor liquidity of the two banks threatened their solvency, it reacted in a way that it decided to carry out controlled liquidation by activating measures under the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks – according to a law proposed by the Janšev government in the National Assembly and voted by a coalition led by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is this law that makes it possible to activate the extreme emergency loan guarantee that we are talking about today. Today's debate is about whether the controlled liquidation decided by the Bank of Slovenia is also agreed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and given temporary consent by the European authorities – whether a better scenario would be bankruptcy. In its introduction, Lehman Brothers, a U.S. Investment Bank investment firm, in his own right, points to the answer. At the same time, it should be noted that bankruptcy, particularly in the light of the practice of insolvency proceedings in Slovenia, would constitute a long and uncertain process in which the economy, with its share of deposits in both banks, would suffer the severe consequences of bankruptcy by – if we look at the statistics in force so far – only by paying a quarter of its deposits. This means that only in the economy would the effect of non-action spill over into the deepening of the insolvency of Slovenian companies and very likely also the deepening of unemployment – new bankruptcys and new unemployed people. The bankruptcy of banks for borrowers, in most cases for companies, would mean that these companies should immediately repay their loans. This would mean that the bankruptcy of banks would also result in bankruptcy of companies with these obligations. For depositors, this means that their deposits would be in bankruptcy, where we can assess from experience that only 25% of the claims in bankruptcy would be reimbursed. This does not apply to deposits up to EUR 100,000, but to deposits over this amount. Moreover, it is not surprising that the Bank of Slovenia has also decided on a scenario for the insurance of deposits over the amount guaranteed by the State under the Banking Act. With a timely, professional and Slovenian situation, the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have prevented the spread of panic in the Slovenian banking system, the panic raising of deposits, which would not be limited to the bank, but very likely to the entire banking system. If we understand that trust in the system and trust in banking institutions as well as the individual bank is a key engine that drives the life not only of banking but through banking as an infrastructure that provides blood circulation and the blood of Slovenian society as a whole, also for Slovenia and all its people. We therefore support the timely treatment of the Bank of Slovenia by establishing an emergency administration, which will gradually and supervisedly carry out the liquidation of banks within a few years by removing them and ending them on the banking market. We are convinced that this measure has contributed to strengthening the stability of the banking system. Other banks in the banking system have no solvency problems and will not have to be solved in this way. In the past, the country has decided to react by ensuring adequate capital adequacy in the largest state banks as well. If we compare the capital adequacy of these banks with the capital adequacy of the New Ljubljana Bank or the New Maribor Credit Bank, we see that there is a huge difference between these levels. In our opinion, for citizens and citizens, taxpayers in this country would be the most expensive bankruptcy due to all the problems mentioned and mentioned above. Not only due to the loss of state and state deposits in these banks, but also due to the impact of the spillover of the problem from these banks into the Slovenian banking system as a whole and into the economy. However, there is also something to be said about the political context of this topic. It is surprising that the Slovenian Democratic Party with irresponsible behaviour, by introducing a panic that has already been prevented, threatens this banking system. This is especially so because in this case the mechanisms envisaged by the law proposed by the previous government and adopted by the previous ruling majority in the National Assembly have been activated. Social Democrats have been alerting us to the problem of indebtedness to the Slovenian economy and to the problem of banking spasms since the global economic and financial crisis occurred, ever since the Slovenian Democratic Party continued to claim that there is no problem in Slovenia and that Slovenia will only be plagued by the crisis. It is important to know where the responsibility is for Slovenia being so vulnerable at the time of the crisis and that it is still valid for one of the countries most affected by the crisis to date. It is necessary to take a look at the reasons, including at the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia, when the Slovenian banking system obviously went far from a healthy relationship between the collected deposits and the given loans. Let us not forget, however, that in the search for responsibility it is also necessary to look at the leaders of economic policy in the country at a time when this problem was most pronounced! It is generally known that this period 2004-2008, the time of the first Janša government, when the government has also taken various measures, for example with decisions relating to the completion of the motorway cross, has contributed significantly to the overheating of the economy and thus to the collapse of construction. If we look at how much of the building credit is in the so-called non-performing Loans, on inherited investments, we see that this is one of the key problems. Another key problem is the problem, which is now popularly referred to as tycunization, which was more than evidently brought about by the mentoring of the then authorities. Some of the key meetings in the line of these decisions were carried out, as is well known to the public, even in the Prime Minister's office. Notwithstanding the need to seek responsibility with monetary and economic policy leaders, responsibility must also be clarified within the banking institutions and banks themselves. We warn, however, that the leaders of these banks must take a key role here. We fear that the atmosphere of the search for the guilty one will also lead to the search for the sinful goat. In the Slovenian banks, especially in the largest state banks, we are already faced with the fact that fear among employees has destroyed even the few business cultures that existed in these banks and has caused cramps in making the decisions that the economy needs. Social Democrats want to contribute to confidence-building, to strengthening stability. The stability of the banking system and people's confidence in it have one of the key roles. We therefore want the Social Democrats to ensure that this government takes measures in this field that strengthen this stability. Mistaken and incorrect forecasts of how controlled the liquidation of both banks would result in damage to taxpayers. We will not see that until the extraordinary administrations have completed their task. The estimates presented a week ago by the Minister of Finance suggest that the volume of these funds will be lower in the worst case, even if they did not properly monetise the assets of both banks than would be the effect directly on the State in the event of bankruptcy. That is why we want to contribute to reconciliation and to inspire confidence not only in this banking system but also in the fact that the authorities led by the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance acted responsibly and conscientiously in these circumstances. In a situation where interpellation against the Minister of Finance is announced because of the fact that one of us, a Member of the National Assembly, has been relieved of a function which, in our firm belief, represents a conflict of interest, regardless of the fact that the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks has clearly considered this conflict of interest and eliminated it in advance. We believe that this conflict exists because of the indisputable and clear provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u17	Mr. Frangež, allow me to remind you that we're probably going to be talking about this at interpolation, so stay on the subject today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u18	which prohibits Members and Members from exercising supervisory functions in the economic sector. [[...]] That is why we see this meeting as an attempt to deepen the unrest, the fragile trust, and the only political benefit of those who have a large share of the responsibility for Slovenia being here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, who will present the position of the Group of the People's List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! They talked so well in front of me that I'm a little scared. The banking system, the problem of banks is really like hot porridge, around which a cat or all of us walk around, but no one turns off the cook who's making this mess. Maybe a little back. The problem of our banking did not arise in 2009, as someone said. We have had a difficult management of the banking system since the beginning of Slovenia and in the old Yugoslavia, but unfortunately no one has noticed what has been going on in our banking system. Let's look at the economy. The economy has often been in crisis and the country has always helped in some ways, but only some. I used to write and say that we came to "catch the cash" capitalism when in companies instead of dealing with development, investing in new knowledge and new technologies and products, managers and entrepreneurs found that it was better to go after state subsidies or aid and thus make good results in companies. Then they also found that it was even simpler than state aid, where at least some of the suggestions you have to make and some plans, to go to the bank for money and thereby ensure your existence. We also know in a way that good results can be generated in companies. I can illustrate this with personal practice. In 1988, in the Alps, the collapse of Yugoslav markets, the huge indebtedness of the company. I took over the management of this company, which was not small – there were a thousand 700 people. I walked around like a fool looking for someone to help me. I wasn't the right address, the right name to get anyone to help the factory. Then I turned to banks – for God's sake, we lost markets, we lost assets, we want to keep people alive. No, I didn't get anything. Then I said, what am I supposed to do now or shut it all down? No, we went to the rescue company, greatly increased productivity, reduced costs, etc. Since we didn't get any help, no money from anywhere, we were forced to stay, find internal reserves, and do business positively. During this time, we returned loans, strengthened the company, found new markets, etc. I could give you a few more of these. However, with us, the whole economic structure has taken on too easy to obtain credit, and now the situation is as it is. Companies without a steady, new flow of money cannot function because they are too expensive, they have too much costs. Since there are no new credits, many businesses must close doors because they have somehow learned to live without what is needed – raising productivity and all that. That's why we have a terrible and difficult situation. In addition, we added some specifics. I must say, at the time of the purchase of stocks, tycoon purchases and all of this, he virtually cancelled any controls. At least in system banks or major banks, Banka Slovenije should prohibit this! I'll give you a practical experience. Since I, as chairman of the Committee in 2007, went to the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – I have said this many times – I asked there a question without the right to vote whether it is true that we are lending to buy shares by setting up shares that are yet to be purchased. Secondly, I asked what price is being put into the guarantee for these loans, at what price are these securities being taken into account by some. The answer was that this is very small, irrelevant in the bank balance sheet, that this is more than 2% or something. Nevertheless, I continued and said that they did not feel that the market value was currently quite high. What if the market value of these securities falls 10 times, which then happened. All these credits were unprotected, and in advance it was known that no one would return it because it was an exclusive speculation that should be banned, these men's ransom and a tycoon ransom. I've told you many times that there's a known location to the money for the Taiwanese purchases that banks have been giving away without need, and so on, they've been throwing it away. Everyone thinks that these so-called tycoons, who have provided themselves directly or indirectly with huge amounts of credit, have hundreds of millions of euros of money stashed somewhere. They don't have it. These were small couriers who could not assess the real value of these companies and overpaid their shares. All this money went to those who owned these companies that we were buying. He knows who it was. Exactly who got the big money that went for those ransoms, and we're looking in the wrong place. In doing so, I must say that no one has committed any legal offence, so we are looking for this money in these areas for free. I would like to say that, in all this time – in 2006, we heard earlier, 2007, 2008 – how our banks' debt grew sharply. I know there was an annual increase in credit at the time, mostly from abroad, in our banks about 40%. It was as much money as you wanted. We entered the European monetary union and it was easy for our banks to get the money. We owed ourselves excessively, needlessly, and today we have a headache when we have to pay that money back. What governments, the Bank of Slovenia, have done in this regard – nothing at all. Our banks have a very simple role to play. They've got to sort of transfer the money together, borrow it. We also know that SDK has been shut down, for example, and we have transferred all current accounts and all things to the bank. Look, for a minus on a current account, you get 0 for a minus you give 10% interest on an annual level, you get practically nothing for a minus. As soon as the bank gets our money on its own account, it has income, and the bank lives off the difference between the interest on the given loans and the ones it borrows. That's all logic. In doing so, it must ensure that the loans it gives are securely secured. This happened pretty well for a while, and then we left control of it. In Banka Slovenije, I saw very strict controls under European control by banks. It's so professional that if you read this stuff, you can't really understand it. None of these mechanisms, and I recommend to Banka Slovenije that she do something to really have control without all the great art. It is necessary to know exactly what loans they give, which loans are bad, etc. Apologizing for bad loans and all that stuff is irrelevant to me. Each bank now has accurate data, and now that we find out how many bad loans there are – we have accurate data. Every hour there are accurate data and at Banka Slovenije you should see them online. Exactly what credits were weakened, why they were weakened, to what extent they were weakened, how many remained. Now, as I said before, we're spinning around like a cat with hot porridge. Every day we have new information about these bad loans in banks and how much this will cost us. That I will not go too far, the last measures and the last things lead me to not know exactly what we would like to do and what we will do, how much we will cost us, and to panic among our citizens because they fear whether they will still have bread or not and whether we will throw everything into this banking system that has no bottom every day of another number. I'd say a good year ago we were deciding about a bad bank. We had people I only understood who knew what they wanted to do with the banks, and I believed they'd do it. Maybe I was naive, maybe I wasn't, but Mr. Sušteršič and his assistants knew what they wanted. In this marriage, I have seen one way to come up with a final solution — quick, easy, and cheap for the country. I think that neither at the Ministry of Finance nor at the Bank of Slovenia, which initially opposed the adoption of this bad bank law, do they want to or do not go into the content of this document. This document provided for the rapid transfer of all bad claims from all banks to a bad bank, which would result in the hypnotic clearance of bad loans and thus ensure the continued positive business of banks. This ensured a solution to the problem – it was envisaged for 5 years, and it could be done for 10 years. Because these poor claims would then be taxed on a long-term basis, and all of this would not have affected taxpayers as much as if we wanted to do what we did at once. Then there is only the question of the value of these poor claims. I don't see these estimates of 4, 5, 6 billion that we're throwing here and there. A bad bank would take on liabilities without all the things that have already been written off. In banks, many bad claims have already been written off or weaknesses have arisen. I don't know why we don't do this, why we don't do this stuff, why we don't get the data. If we acted quickly and effectively here, this problem would already be under the roof, and I think it would not be harder for taxpayers – in a couple of years, 5, 10 years, it would mean about 200 million euros per year in the final recapitalisation that would remain necessary. Now we're charging ourselves with unnecessary extra costs. We have solutions, but somehow we run away from them, we don't want to use them. I think it would be wise to speed up this system of rescue and to use these things that we have written in the law that are in force and to hurry up with this problem. And we work – I will not say which government and which minister. It seems that in recent years we have even heard the previous governor – I will not say the present one – that our banking system is stable, that it has some problems, but that there are no problems with liquidity and that there are no problems. And no one tells us, but we can read how nice the country is slowly coming. With regard to Factor Banks etc., so far they have been able to provide liquidity through deposits in these banks of state institutions and countries that are in these two banks EUR 650 million and the country would lose them. So far they've been saving this way. Similarly in all other banks. We have 3 million 600 and something else, according to a statement from the Treasury Ministry of Deposits in banks, which in some ways quietly ensure the liquidity of the entire banking system rather than someone hitting the table and demanding a solution to this system. We have also taken a number of measures in all governments, where in a way all those who have little or anything to restore credit are given bank guarantees. This economy of ours will have to face the need to count species and make itself competitive so that it can compete outside. Nobody's hiring, nothing's happening, only then things will start to work out. The state is solving this by binding deposits at different amounts in different banks. I think it's kind of unfair that it's happening because it's simply driving us – today it's being used in some way in an operational way as a way of saving, but tomorrow it's going to be hopeless because we can't draw this money. One more thing. Our depositors in banks bring in extremely little money if you look at our reports on these things. What the state owes, however, is extremely expensive, as we come to the point that the exit interest on these deposits is almost zero and the entry rate is on average 5%. There's something else about the solutions themselves. Like I said, we have solutions. You need to come in on a day-to-day with information, not hide out here for confidentiality. The weak bank also envisaged exposure and specific supervision for those loans that would be written off that would be transferred. Maybe that's why we're here looking for all the ways to get things done. You need new stress tests, etc. I think we're just being childish about these things. Europe is also demanding. They don't seem to know what's going on in Europe either. It's like no one knows what this is all about, but it's crystal clear. The bank was an elite bank that financed by the elite companies, which financed everything that was necessary, financed the tycoons. No one said anything because the entire banking system is meant for this, and unfortunately nothing happens, nothing will happen. We all put our heads in the sand. I would ask for it all together, and if I could get to the point of view of the Civil Code – we were very committed to a quick resolution of the banking system, and we hope that we will continue to expose ourselves and come from the fact that banks will become professional institutions without knowing how many member governments with millions of salaries, without buying control boards that I have already said a hundred times that I would stop because they are only doing heartburn. These are companies that are very simple, which can be run by one person, the condition is only that it is fair and not influenced by individual or current policies or policies that we do not see. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished governor, all present! I welcome the fact that today we are talking in the National Assembly about a key problem that is stifling Slovenia. I responded very quickly to the decision of the Governor of Banka Slovenije and supported and in some way congratulated him on the move made that Friday. Dear Mr. Jazbec! You were very supportive in the National Assembly. 77 Members and Members gave their support to you in a secret vote. The exception was the SD party, which at the time said that it did not support the policy you were leading, which it was supposed to belong to. I am pleased that you have also received their support today for your two-month move, and I really thank you for that. We were very critical in the Slovenian People's Party, and despite our full awareness of the powers we have as Members and Members of Parliament, we allowed ourselves to criticize the former Governor. In August 2011, there was a debate in the National Assembly where Members and Members spoke about the ineffective work done by the Bank of Slovenia at that time. In his introduction, Mr. Frangež said that they had done the same in America. Yes, five years earlier in America, they reached into this rotten apple and tried to make order in this area and made it. We have delayed all these five years, and when you arrived at the Bank of Slovenia's helm in July, you had to find that in a few weeks, as far as I was able to follow, two banks would be insolvent and in fact the collapse of this banking system or the great threat to the stability of the banking system would occur. That's why we support what you've done. We support this debate today. There were rhetorical questions here today, why. Very simple, respected colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about two banks with 4% of the balance sheet total, which, as everyone claims, are the most excellent, and this price will also be high and also the way in which the recovery is expected to be only for these two banks. However, respectable colleagues and colleagues will obviously be faced with the fact that five years too late in the National Assembly, we will have to determine whether the 10% of GDP – 3 billion – is enough to remedy these gaps, these corruptions that have taken place in these years. I'm not talking about these five years, I'm talking about the last decade and probably a few more years. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, our citizens and citizens, those who have chosen us to manage on their behalf, have every right to talk about this here, to listen to us, to know what the account will be and who will pay it. Regrettably, most of this account will be exposed through the obligation of citizens and citizens. Given the numbers that we are preparing, which are clear in our public finances, we all know that, I don't know, this is probably going to come to 25 billion debt, and that we're going to be paying this for decades, which, in 20 years after the bank system's recovery, has been delayed into our banking system. Today there was talk about the functioning of the rule of law, about confidence that someone was guilty when convicted. We've been talking to these flossules, respectable colleagues and colleagues for too long. We are in this country just before others have to come and tell us what needs to be done. When I have clips in front of me, there are names, people with names and names. Dear colleagues and colleagues, some 10 people with a name and surname have brought the country where it is today. If I read and watch the papers, I will quote that no one will say that I am revealing some bank secrecy. MMC: "There has already been information here that the state will also save the deposits of those to whom the bank has lent millions of euros but have not yet returned them. Factor bank loaned the money to Tomaž Lovšet, participated in the financing of Grep for the Stožice project, bought the claims in the succeeding Bužekian project, financed the collapse of Primorje and FB Investments by Igor Bavčar, including loaning the money to KLM Investments through which Zoran Jankovic purchased Mercator's shares, and Binet Kordež. Among other things, the Probank was loaned to Viator & Vector, Trim, MLM, Medalion, Golden Coin II and Autotechni." The second diary called Dnevnik writes: "Jankovic's 11 million concerns, settled at Kordez, Bavčar, Horvat, Pavčku." He mentions Mr Srečko Šamperl, who is supposed to take over the Water Management Company Kranj, Miroslav Gnamuša, Janka Zakeršnik with these loans. He's talking about the brother of the director of Probank and stuff. These are people with names and names. We've got the rest of the banks being rehabilitated. Also there are names and surnames, perhaps a little more hidden, in larger systems, such as those for which the two hands have been to determine why some have entered this property, set up administrations, have been supervisors in these banks for decades, why the same people in these banks have leased several times more loans than their owners and so on. The computer is very simple. These are the reasons why we need to talk about this. On the initiative for today's session, we did not sign as an instigator because in the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that it is not so problematic for those who have deposits in these two banks today, but for the troublesome gentlemen and ladies who over the decade – knowing that 10% of the capital needed, and then 100% of those deposits and other deposits – have been drained from these banks – have exhausted credit. Through these credits and through settled loans, where the names I mentioned above are already marked in the media, these depths, these holes. I'm not so sure all those credits got lost in the papers. We can also read here how many there are in the Cayman Islands, how many there are in Cyprus, how many there are in Liechtenstein. We will have to follow these people nicely, because, colleagues and colleagues, if we do not investigate this, it will be very difficult to put our taxpayers on the bill or we will take responsibility for it. For 15 years, I have been in active politics, a professional politician, and I am not responsible for any kind of depth, and I will not allow myself to be blamed for what we have done to the politicians. When I went to a meeting of hgospa premieres because of the fiscal rule, because I wanted to participate in the need to spend as much as we could create, they called me from ten centimeters and shouted in my face that I was a thief. No, I'm not a thief. I believe that among us there is a large majority of those who can be said the same, we can look into the eyes and prove it with arguments. Those who, in this country or in the banking system or in politics, have been involved in these transactions that have brought this country into a position to view us from a formerly model country today as one of the ununderstanding countries and countries with the worst trends – these people simply need to be called to account. From this town, your honor, thank you for this step. But I expect very publicly – I don't know if you have all those who go this way in Banka Slovenije. I hope they follow you. Unfortunately, there are many who have also been in these years when these steps were not taken. I hope that your policy, which has been criticised in your appointment, will be enforced and that you will go to the end and, as you said, all those responsible for this business will report to the appropriate place that the law enforcement authorities will finally run. In Slovenia there has been quite a lot of talk over the past two months about things that have happened around the bells. That's where we found the big numbers, now we have the second package. I believe there will be a third, probably the biggest package in the establishment of a bad bank. Last year I was very disappointed as a minister when we tried to get information from Banka Slovenije about what was going on in the banking sector. Mr. Minister of Finance, Dr. Šuštersič, wanted to have them to introduce them to us. Things were inaccessible to the government for such or other reasons. Let's ask ourselves what happened last year at a time when, in principle, we would agree on a bad bank project, a Slovenian State Holding project – two key rapps of Slovenian transition, where we would look at the intestines of the banking system and the management of state assets. What happened? Controversy – first politically, lastly, at midnight, and to the Constitutional Court to keep the proceedings open until the end of the year. I was pleased by the decision made at the Constitutional Court to continue these projects, but unfortunately, I strongly believe that, as far as I understood the crisis situation in Slovenia last year, the crisis was not when we adopted the ZUJF and many Slovenes and Slovenes denied a piece of rights. The crisis has worsened, continued and, in my deep conviction, has also moderated from the background when a sharp entry into the banking sector was wanted. For the first time we did it in the government, we went to public finance rehabilitation, and the rounding up of the budget was the second step of the bank. That's where it broke down, colleagues and colleagues. One year is a very important year. There's a lot going on in one year. Without someone raising a deposit from the bank — many assets are transferred to various accounts after various tax havens in these years. I think we have a lot to do in Slovenia. These two cases should be cases on which we will begin to act by saying what needs to be said and done, not by saying what needs to be done, but by agreeing to speak what is heard. If we say what is good for years, we will have to admit that we are not able to lead these countries together — economy, banking, government, parliament — and others will come. Why are they coming? Not because someone in Europe put a black dot over Slovenia. Let me make this very simple. If you go to your neighbor's for 5,000 euros in loans, and if he believes you that they did well in your family, if you know what I mean, he'll lend it to you. Maybe there's another reason he'll lend you another loan. But when you come to him for the third time, and come out of the house, where all are contending among themselves, where one steals from another, one wastes, the other works, and doesn't know where this house is going, this neighbor will ask whether you are still worthy of this trust. We, respectable colleagues and colleagues, are part of the euro area in which we, as we are, are not trustworthy. We are not trustworthy because we do not want to look things in the eye and hide behind the various Flossouls of the rule of law — guilty when accused — and the time is running out. In this way, we will not bring this country out of the crisis. That is why I support what is happening today in the National Assembly. Let's be critical, let's be clear. I wish the Governor of Banka Slovenije and the finance minister a lot of courage, corruption, they will need it, because from the names that come out, we are really talking about some quasi-Slovak elites, which they themselves have continued for decades, acting as some quasi-elite, different-ship vehicles and with all the luxury that you can't earn in some normal time, and in fact living on an account that will now be paid to taxpayers. That is why this debate is needed, and I am pleased to support it and hope that we will finally begin to speak in Slovenia what needs to be said and done what needs to be done. Dear colleagues and colleagues, those who have reconciled the budget without the opposition, without the right things – I hope, I really hope that such a budget can be brought to a close, because the account that will be put out for the banking system will be a lot of the failure that you think you have today. That's where you have to say what's true, not what sounds good. I wish everyone much success in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Ms Marija Plevčak will now present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In our Group of Members, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the roles represented by the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance within their competence and with a view to maintaining the national banking system are at the level of credibility and stability. The case of Probank and Factor Bank, a shareholder company, is the first such example of the resolution of private banks in our country with the possibility of recapitalising both banks, which is necessary in order to ensure the urgency of payment capacity. We agree that it is crucial to maintain or upgrade stable, transparent and credible not only the banking system but the entire financial system in accordance with the legislation and the inclusion of all competent authorities. We also agree with the selected way of resolving both banks, which was decided by the Bank of Slovenia – for controlled liquidation, which represents the cheapest possible solution for taxpayers. We must not forget, however, that many Slovenian companies have deposits in these two banks. The main purpose of the so-called overall rescue action is to protect a stable banking system in its entirety. In the Group of Members, we stress that owners and private banking entities are the custodians of their assets. They are fully responsible for their business or actions, including the loss they caused. The representatives of the Bank of Slovenia stressed, in the course of the discussion on the working body, that the country as a rescuer would emerge as a last resort and that all other possibilities for resolution had been previously reviewed. Certainly, we must not forget that the guarantee is primarily intended for liquidity. In our Group of Members, we expect this liquidation process to be conducted in a transparent manner and, most importantly, the role of depositors to remain secure. We estimate that a banking entity that no longer meets the legal banking criteria laid down in the Republic of Slovenia simply leaves the Slovenian banking market. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we also believe that the complementary proposal for a decision is important mainly in terms of stabilising the Slovenian banking system, especially in the work that ensures the security of deposit deposits. Bankers and supervisors must respect the ethical principles that apply in banks and in the country in general. Nevertheless, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are concerned that there will be a guarantee measure, a recapitalisation of a large financial contribution to the state budget and consequently also to taxpayers. Nor can we get rid of the bad feeling that the country's exposure in the case of both banks will not be so small and that the commitment to promote transparent financing for the economy will still be compromised. In the DeSUS Group, we demand that the situation in both banks be adequately criminally and materially sanctioned. Names are known, things are corrupt, things call for harsh sanctions. It is difficult for us to accept the fact that we will save a private bank with a guarantee or recapitalisation. I should like to reiterate, however, that the State's guarantee to draw on a direct emergency loan to the Bank of Slovenia totalling slightly more than one billion euros. This is particularly due to the fact that it has been extremely difficult to retain funds for the recreational allowance of pensioners in the next year's draft budget, which is a drop into the sea in relation to these funds. As I have already said, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support the reports adopted by the mother's working body. We will closely monitor the situation which, according to the Government's assurances, will not harm the state budget and the possible reduction of the recreational allowance for pensioners. In line with the recommendations, we also expect a report from the Government and the Central Bank to report within three months on all further measures to be taken to ensure the stability and confidence of the Slovenian banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Plevčak. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u26	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The rehabilitation of the banking system, which began with the controlled compulsory liquidation of two private banks, Probanka and Factor Banka, has already shown a number of irregularities in the initial phase and, we can say, illegality in relation to the supervision of Banka Slovenije over both banks. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the vice-governor explained that the measure of compulsory liquidation was necessary because both banks had been in a difficult liquidity situation for the last 14 days prior to the decision to impose compulsory liquidation. It explained that both banks have had liquidity problems since 2010. In Nova Slovenije we note that since 2010, Banka Slovenije has not implemented its legal supervisory obligations in Probank and Factor Bank cases. As a supervisory authority, the Bank of Slovenia was obliged to adopt one of the measures under Article 223 of the Banking Act. This is the withdrawal of the licence, the establishment of an emergency management or the decision to initiate the bankruptcy or liquidation of both banks. Instead of the necessary measures, Banka Slovenije stated in its annual reports to the National Assembly and also presented them at the meetings of the Home Working Committee that the liquidity situation in Slovenian banks is not problematic. These reports were, we can say, unrealistic and misleading. In New Slovenia, we advocate that each individual be responsible for the work he does. The highest officials in the country, of which the Governor of Banka Slovenije and members of the Council of Banka Slovenije – all 4 vice-governors, are undoubtedly also responsible, I am also talking about the former. We will require their responsibility for their decisions taken and, above all, for their failure to act within the framework of legal powers and duties, which has serious consequences for our entire banking system. Banka Slovenije found at this year’s banking supervision that both private banks do not have enough capital to cover all liabilities. The enforcement procedure under the applicable banking rules should not be introduced. Apparently, both banks are ripe for bankruptcy. If the Bank of Slovenia has decided, in spite of other legal provisions, to impose compulsory liquidation, in order not to undermine confidence in our banking system, we do not think it appropriate to take a decision to impose compulsory liquidation and to appoint an emergency administration. In any event, the two banks should have an emergency management that would draw up appropriate reports and balances. If increased withdrawals occur during the duration of the emergency administration, Banka Slovenije has, in addition to the activation of the guarantee for nutritional deposits, some instruments to ensure adequate liquidity, in particular the prohibition of paying over the level of guaranteed deposits and the prohibition of paying salaries to employees above the level of guaranteed salaries. These instruments have not been used by Banka Slovenije, although these measures could prevent increased deposits and, as a result, a sudden liquidity situation in both banks. On the basis of the relevant final reports and the balance sheet of emergency management, Banka Slovenije could in fact decide to take appropriate further steps, but above all, the extraordinary management could have done everything it could to date to bring civil redress actions against members of the two banks, Probanks and Factor Banks, and to also initiate appropriate criminal proceedings against them in cases where criminal services are suspected. In Novi Slovenija we do not agree that the burden of poor management and decision on the banking system is placed at the burden of taxpayers. Those who had power and decision-making should be responsible for their decisions. These are members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of banks. At least now, we expect the extraordinary management to do its work thoroughly in this regard. In particular, the Extraordinary Administration and the Supervisory Authorities must take action against all those which, with high deposits raised in the last month prior to the imposition of the compulsory liquidation, caused the inefficiencies of both banks. If any part of the obligation of both private banks in the process of forced liquidation is to the burden of taxpayers – it is obvious that it will be, and not small – the public must have the right to find out who the depositors of both banks are to be paid from the taxpayer’s money. Everyone must have the right to know whose obligations he pays, especially if such obligations are imposed upon him without his consent and the guilt for the occurrence of such debts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ludmilli Novak. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. What can I do for you, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Procedurally, yes. Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! In particular, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, presented by Mr Marko Pogačnik, raised many questions that require answers. They demand answers from both the Governor and the Minister. Before we begin with the debate between Members and Members, I propose that both of these moments in the National Assembly, the most responsible persons present, comment or explain, give answers to the questions raised in this debate. I believe that the answers to the conclusions or questions are crucial for the further course of the debate. And another warning. Today we are dealing with the key problem of Slovenia. I would expect the President of the Government to be here today to present the opening position as the highest policy of the executive branch. This meeting of the National Assembly is much more important than the European Mobility Day, much more important than many other things that are being done mainly from the point of view of money. Today's meeting is extremely important for the survival of our banking system, which is even more important for the survival of a large number of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because if this method of programmed liquidation of both banks is to be implemented, many will be charged. Even in a financial sense, without any participating in the emergence of this problem without any participation. I propose, Madam Vice-President, that you ensure first the presence of the President of the Government. I think it's unacceptable to avoid liability in this way. Secondly, I propose that we get the appropriate explanations immediately, both from the Governor and from the Minister of Finance, before we do anything. If the conditions are not met, I propose that the meeting be suspended for so long that persons who are supposed to be responsible and who are expected to be present can ensure and fulfil this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. As you have started, I would like to ask first if the representatives of the Government and the Governor wish to have a word before we go to the debate of Members. As far as the presence of the President of the Government is concerned, representatives of the Government are here, so that we can continue the meeting. Now I'd like to give my word to the governor, Dr. Bostian Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u30	We're not saving these two banks. We're closing two banks. Because there are different ways of closing these banks – one is bankruptcy, the other is a controlled termination of these banks – we decided, for the reasons I said at the outset, to proceed with the controlled cessation of these banks. Problems can also arise in this process, which will trigger bankruptcy. We are aware of this and we are trying to prevent bankruptcy precisely for the reasons I have said – because the proportion of applications relating to the economy to legal persons in this part of the guaranteed deposits over EUR 400 million in our view is too high, given the risk that the failure to pay these deposits would cause the economy. Moreover, since 2009, the country itself has been constantly in charge of budget management and of the distribution that goes through all Slovenian banks, directly in both banks, for approximately EUR 340 million in deposits that are linked to the implementation of the budget. In the event of bankruptcy, this part in both banks would be tied, lost at least until the moment of payment, which would take place within the framework of the bankruptcy. In addition, in both banks there is an additional EUR 60 million of deposits from municipalities, which in this case would have been frozen until the end of bankruptcy, bankruptcy proceedings, and this would probably jeopardise the further liquidity and wider problems of the state or in this case of municipalities. Once again, we are not saving these banks, as has been said several times today, but we are closing them down. We close them in such a way that at this point we can use the government guarantee mainly because of the time mismatch in the payment of deposits and, on the other hand, any obligation to return to banks on the loan side. If the European Commission did not understand the way we are trying to bring these two banks to an end, to close these two banks, it would not allow us to do so in particular in terms of ensuring financial stability. You yourself have pointed out several times that Slovenian banks and the Slovenian economy are connected in a way that is not the most transparent and may even at times require any answers related to crime or responsibility, why this has occurred. As you know, I am the Governor only since July 17th, and all I am doing is trying to obtain the most accurate data and prepare measures that will not further endanger financial stability in the Slovenian banking system. All these measures, the measures we are taking with regard to both banks, would probably be more meaningful at a time when we would also have data for the remaining banking system. However, due to compliance with the rules of the European Commission and in particular to the rules governing the granting of State aid relating to the transfer of bad claims to the Banking Company, we cannot start by transferring bad claims to the Banking Claims Management Company until the burden tests have been carried out in 10 banks, now 8 banks, and until the quality reviews of the assets have been completed in those banks. I would like to conduct procedures for the cessation of the operation of both banks at the time of having this data, but events in the last months or at least from 17 July, as I understand them, have led to the fact that the Bank of Slovenia's actions, which continuously issued requests for additional recapitalisation to the owners and, in addition, all other requirements arising from the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia, could not prevent events that would eventually lead to the bankruptcy of both banks. However, again, the reasons why it does not bankruptcy and why the controlled termination of both banks still apply. In particular, in order to ensure at least the current financial stability of the rest of the banking system and the costs incurred directly by the State and part of the economy linked to both banks. Unfortunately, the cost of bankruptcy or liquidation is borne in any case by taxpayers. In the beginning, I forgot to mention that regardless of the procedure under which we close or close both banks, the costs will in any event be borne by the capital owners and the owners of the subordinated instruments. In this case, both banks will lose EUR 122 million and owners of subordinated liabilities, especially subordinated bonds, will lose EUR 64 million. This is the part that the owners of both banks will be carrying. Among the owners of both banks are only two companies, one of which has deposits of more than EUR 100,000. This is information that we know, which we cannot provide to you because of the Banking Act, but because of the new directives of the European Commission, this can come to the table in accordance with the recommendations and within the framework of our marriage obligation. I'm afraid so. I'd like to tell you all this information, but I can't give it to you because of the Banking Act. Conflict of interest. You told Mr. Slapnik that he was tied to the operation of Mercury. We had to make up our minds in two days. In two days, from the moment we prepared everything together, we had to make a team of both extraordinary administrations, which is related to what Mrs Novak said, even to why we had not done it before. Previously, we tried to provide enough capital from both banks' owners with all the procedures. Since we are bound by our own orders and would be in violation of our own orders for both banks, we were brought to the point when we decided to close both banks. We close banks, we don't save them. That's why we had to put the people we found on both boards. In both administrations, people who, in our opinion, are suitable under all the criteria applicable to the granting of licences to administrations in Slovenian banks. The space is so small, at least from my point of view, from the point of view of the governor and the former professor at the Faculty of Economics, I know most of these people. I cannot say that I do not know these people, but it was also an assessment which is the same for members of all administrations in Slovenian banks. For both banks, the measures have been increasing since 2010. What happened before July 17th, when I took office as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, I cannot comment. But I can say that our reaction has been the fastest possible since I came to work at Banka Slovenije. It was Mrs Mihatovich's question. Ms Mihatovic lost her license in Serbia, where in every bank in the process of liquidation or bankruptcy, the licenses of all members of the administrations cease in a way that prevents them from any further work in Serbia. From this point of view, we were informed only on the basis of articles that appeared in the newspapers or your reactions. You said Mrs Mihatovic was appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank on September 5th. As you know, we reacted in both banks on September 6th. We only got the message on September 5th. Now we get to the next thing. In the past, the Bank of Slovenia has requested and requested that the Banking Act also regulate the licensing of members of the Supervisory Boards. As you know, the Bank of Slovenia proposal has not been accepted. As a result, Banka Slovenije cannot license members of the supervisory boards of banks. Unfortunately so, and tell me how we can arrange this differently, and we will be happy to arrange it. However, Banka Slovenije does not write laws, you adopt laws in the National Assembly. What is important to stress is that we are mostly dealing with bad loans in both banks today. Credits in the economy shall in principle be issued for the long term. At a certain point in time, Slovenia was in a situation where, according to all the criteria, these long-term loans were issued in the right way and with the right guarantees, but in the meantime the economic situation changed and these credits suddenly became bad loans. Tell us how Banka Slovenije knows 10 years in advance which loans will not return and which will return normally. With our supervisory measures and mechanisms we monitor this and try to ensure as many reservations as possible, we try to ensure the normal functioning of banks, but in Slovenia there is a moment when these credits simply started to multiply across the limits of the normal functioning of the banking system. This is why we tried and initiated a process of clearing the balance sheets of Slovenian banks by means of a law whose names I will not be able to say correctly for specific measures for the stability of banks adopted last year. It also follows from this law that we will try to clean up Slovenian banks through an institution called the Banks Claims Management Company. All of these are ways that at least at this point allow us to clean up Slovenian banks of all bad credits at some point in time. However, you must know that all these credits in Slovenian banks have been issued with the help of all of us savers who have open accounts in all Slovenian banks. We are trying to protect these savers with our measures because I can't imagine from what kind of money the Slovenian banks could ever issue new credits on. If we do not protect the savers, those who bring money to Slovenian banks, then I do not know what the Slovenian banking system will look like if ever again. From this point of view, I ask you to understand that Banka Slovenije is trying to protect savers in a way that will allow us to have these savers in Slovenian banks again. What happened on the credit side, I believe, and this is also my opinion that there have been some credits that should never have been issued. Here the Bank of Slovenia, with a multitude of actions it has issued, constantly warns about these things. Just in the case of Factor Bank and Probank, once again, we have issued 62 measures that would in any way attempt to establish the normal functioning of these banks. Six reports were issued to law enforcement authorities. What's going on with these applications? I don't know. This is a question for other competent institutions. Today it may seem that there could be more of these applications, but at the moment we must first resolve the Slovenian banking system if we can even expect a recovery of economic growth, and the ways in which we will pay all the debt that will also grow due to the rehabilitation of the banking system. We must be aware that there is no other way than for all taxpayers to pay for bad loans in these banks. Again, I do not know of any other way that could in any way make it possible to repay the problems and weaknesses that are currently occurring in Slovenian banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I'm asking if the government representative is willing to give an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps just a complement to where the Governor ended up, namely the involvement of public funds, because this was from an explanation of the Group's position to understand. Banking is based on trust. If there's no trust, we all know where the situation can lead. This means that all authorities operating in any way that interferes with the banking field must act in a way that does not injure this trust in anything. Trust means that, at the time the competent authorities find that a bank no longer has a long-term sustainable economic model, in a controlled manner, in the most appropriate manner and in a manner that costs taxpayers least, they shall take measures which, by means of regulated procedures, may ensure the cessation of the business of such an entity. Together with Banka Slovenije, we have assessed that the cases of Factor Bank Probank are the cases of two such entities. You have estimated that in this way we have characterized the entire banking system in Slovenia as systemically important and thus potentially exposed the insanely large public financial consequences. Here, however, we would like to point out that the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks provides for various measures to ensure the stability of the banking system in Slovenia, and here, however, it is worth stressing that for the three largest banks in Slovenia, NLB, NKBM and Abank, we envisage the implementation of other measures to ensure stability in these banks. As you know, the central measure envisaged in this law is the transfer of part of a bad asset from the balance sheet of three existing banks to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and the parallel provision of sufficient capital bases for the continuation of such cleared banks. In no way do we want to expose public finances to the extent that the entire Slovenian banking system is characterized as systemic, so the numbers you operate on are not credible and will not reach such borders. Therefore, speculation as to whether the state can commit itself to this extent in order to be able to finance everything you have suggested is not appropriate in our view. As it is said, a credible plan for the resolution of the banking system in Slovenia is definitely made up of at least two elements – the resolution of those banks that we consider to be sustainable and appropriate in the long term, and the removal of those banks from the market that we believe are not sustainable in the long term. We are solving this in an orderly manner, with as little consequences for public finances as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We got some answers here, but we didn't get all of them. If someone takes over the management of an institution, takes over the management of an institution and is able to respond and comment on the activity, the work of an institution during the period preceding its term of office. It was expected that, in view of the questions raised regarding these disclosed audits, which were carried out a few months earlier, this part would also be answered. Because Banka Slovenije is an institution, and someone represents the institution with their history and their conduct. In view of the fact that there have been recent actions in this area, we also expect this part of the response. The second question is what was triggered, and there is no answer – why not wait for the stress tests and then take action. That was one question. Another question, which is also irresponsible and important – what will be the behaviour of the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of the following similar cases that may happen. Will that be the same? Will the procedure be the same? The question was also whether in the event of an identical situation, the Republic of Slovenia could provide a quota which is several times or 10 times higher than that necessary for the rehabilitation of these two small non-systemic banks. The question was also why these two banks put themselves at the level of systemic banks. There have been some other questions, and I think that these things need to be answered very precisely. Secondly, I would like to ask that, given the importance of the meeting of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides the most competent persons, politically and functionally, with a view to representing the position in this item of the agenda. It is irresponsible that neither the Minister of Finance nor the President of the Government are here, but we are talking about the key problem of the Republic of Slovenia right now. This has been said by both the Governor and the Minister of Finance. Please, I propose that the leadership of the National Assembly also be provided by the Executive Branch of the Authority to the key most responsible persons who will participate in this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u36	I'm not procedural. I speak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u37	As a motioner, please. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u38	We have an extraordinary meeting today. We have available time. Mr Tanko has so much time that he can carry out all of his deliberations, and now, in the context of the procedural process, he is opening up substantive issues. Please, Madam President, to find out that this is not the case. I ask Mr Tank that if he wants answers, he will get answers when he has the opportunity. He also knows from well - known practice that sometimes someone answers when they can. We have a lot of time. We have eight hours of debate left. Mr. Governor and the Minister will respond when they respond. Perhaps you are asking questions so that you do not even know that the answer is needed. I don't know. But that's your problem, not mine. Please do not abuse the rules of procedure and procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I acted according to procedure. That was the order. Mr. Shircelj is the next to have procedural procedures. Then came Mr. Jazbec. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] As a motioner, if you'll excuse me. Then Mr. Badger's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps then the response of Governor Jazbec will be somewhat longer given that there will probably be a few more questions. First, we need to answer what this de facto solution represents. In fact, the State guarantees all applications. The guarantee scheme does not apply, the guarantee scheme up to EUR 100,000. There are potential – God forbid – further such processes, further bankruptcy or liquidation processes, procedures are likely to be clear. All depositors in any bank will also require a guarantee of over 100,000 euros. This assures them, if not someone else, of the Constitution, because the Constitution stipulates that they are all equal. Here it is questionable whether these two banks for Slovenia now mean system banks — de facto, not de jure. The de jure is as stated in the law, which refers to two or three banks. I hope that the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije are now clear whether they are two banks or three banks in Slovenia. Let's say there's three. In further procedures, this will be clear. This is what international institutions expect, which is what international markets expect, and this is what the public expects. In this respect, the question of the continued security of the financial system is raised, whether in this case the state will be able to provide approval of the number 14 billion – it was given by Caprirolov to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy a few days ago. There are some calculations here, there are calculations by Banka Slovenije etc. That's why they're system banks, actually. I am very pleased that we are taking care of the savers and that this concern for the savers is extremely important. Why are the savers important? Because they bring a deposit, and this deposit represents the basis for the loan. The Bank has certain obligations under the laws, including European directives, and must have a liquidity reserve for this, if I understand correctly, 2%. For loans he's been lending for over two years, nothing at all. Even 1% I think it was proposed, etc. What does that mean for the depositary? It means bringing a thousand euro deposits to the bank, and the bank has a reserve of 20 euros for it. Take that. It could be different. The reserve here is made up of various matters. We will be able to talk about this, but this means that these are also European directives or European regulations. I am concerned that even if the governor said that the other banks in the system would guarantee up to EUR 100,000 for these savers – and this is said to be about 400 million – these other banks have no money and this would have too much effect on their liquidity and should anyway be cut down by a country that, if the banks do not do so, is the one that will guarantee these deposits. Here these roles are de facto guaranteed by the state, because other banks in the Slovenian banking system do not have enough money to guarantee. That's what I'm worried about. That's how I understood the governor, and that's what he said. It is now a matter of further systemic action and what this means for Slovenia and Slovenia's banking system. The next issue that arises is the issue of deposits in the Slovenian banking system. According to some information, the country has 3.6 billion in the Slovenian banking system. I'm sure this amount varies from day to day, but I certainly think it's over 3 billion. According to the Ministry of Finance, and this has also been mentioned on the Finance Committee, the country has received 80 million interest. Here the average interest rate can be calculated and here is the question of how the state invests its money – whether it is more dedicated to humanitarian affairs, more to ensuring liquidity, because Slovenian banks cannot provide liquidity themselves. If that's the case, there's more to worry about. Here the question is why, I think, 347 million of these deposits were in these two banks, of which 60 million were held by municipalities, as has been said, and even a country in a broader sense, other funds, etc. It says over 600 million. Was this state money given in a narrow sense to ensure liquidity, and if liquidity was guaranteed in this way, how long? We have now come to terms with the state taking a new guarantee and with this guarantee guaranteeing its money invested in these two banks. There's no rationality here. The reasons are probably non-economic, non-financial. Money management is what it is, and it's all questionable. We are talking about the resolution of the Slovenian banking system. We are talking about that now the European Commission, services or various institutions value Slovenian assets, the assets of the Slovenian banking system. This means that they value how much Slovenia has bad loans. This decision was taken by the European Commission at the end of June when the first claims were not transferred to a bad bank, to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. I think it was June 28th, at least this one was mentioned in public that it would happen. Why? I think the reason is very simple – because European institutions do not believe us. They probably don't believe us because we've already been in the past, and they don't believe us because they believed the Greeks, and then they came up with different results, and then they found that this thing is what it is. But with this transfer and solution to the Slovenian banking system, we are late. Here I can calmly say that time is money, and every day the delays are higher. As a result, there will be major weaknesses, making the situation worse and making the recapitalisation requirements greater. If the banking system were to be reformed in 2009, the cost of the whole procedure would probably be much lower than it will be, as it will probably be reformed somewhere in early 2014, when this will begin at all. Here are the things that care about is justified, and here are things that don't come out financially. Financially, they shall not result without additional indebtedness and without further cuts in public spending. Here the question arises — to where? We're not talking about 10 million here today, 100 million. Here we are probably talking about the Slovenian banking system, about thousands of millions. Where are we gonna get them and how are we gonna get them? Seeing the whole picture – when the whole picture is visible, it will be increasingly necessary to find responsibility for the situation. This responsibility is crucial because in the end they will pay for and pay for the entire banking reform, the entire banking system of taxpayers, as has been said. The new owners of the banking system will probably be able to pay part of this if it is repaired, but this will probably come after the state has repaired it. First it needs to be repaired, then it will be possible to sell the financial system. Here is the desire and purpose of this extraordinary session to determine how long it will take, how long it will cost, and to inform Slovenian citizens and citizens of the situation, because, as they say, they will pay. It is the duty of Members to inform the electorate and the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u42	Thank you for further questions and explanations. First of all, Mr. Tank, who's taken his questions to three points. First of all, the role of Banka Slovenije. I do not apologize for the role of Banka Slovenije, I just said what are the measures we have started since 17 July. I think it will take too long, but we can go through all 62 measures that we have issued in the past in Banka Slovenije, both to Factor Bank and Probanki. We can, if you like, go through all 62 measures and I will explain to you exactly what each measure required of the owners of the banks and the administration of the bank. Can I help you? [[advertising from the hall]] I think you can. We'll get ready. Why didn't we wait for the stress tests? We would rather wait for stress tests, but we could not because of the changed liquidity situation in both banks that would lead to bankruptcy. If bankruptcy were to occur, what I said several times today would have happened — a higher cost for taxpayers. Therefore, we could not wait for the final results of the stress tests and to review the quality of the asset. How will we react to all the other banks? This also relates to Mr Shirtzl's question. So the maximum cost, if the entire banking system goes down, is about 15 billion euros for taxpayers. This cost will have to be paid by taxpayers if the Slovenian banking system, which currently has 15 billion euro deposits, is deleted. You don't have to be too smart here to see that number. You can calculate for yourself and you will find that if all Slovenian banks are sunk at this point, we will have to pay taxpayers for this cost regardless of whether these banks are systemic, non-systemic, important, irrelevant. From the point of view of the central bank, all savers in all banks are important. The System Bank is, in my opinion, the wrong term, and from our point of view, what I said at the outset, it doesn't matter what kind of bank it is. It is the savers who bring money to these banks, and as long as we can ensure that these savers are safe, we will issue such measures as we have issued on 6 September. The entire amount of bank recovery will cost. I don't know if you understand that the Bank Claims Management Company will also have to issue bonds to which balance sheet the bad claims of all other banks will be transferred. These bonds will also be issued with the State guarantee, and it is now estimated that these bonds will be set at around €4 billion. Since we do not know the exact data, we have hired consultants in accordance with the recommendations of the European Central Bank and the European Commission, which determine the level of the bad claims in sample 10, 8 banks, asset quality reviews and the necessary recapitalisation, which the State will have to provide primarily for the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank of Maribor. When we have estimates for the necessary recapitalisation, we will also have the possibility of transferring the first claims and the size of the transfer. At that time, the Bank Claims Management Company, as set out in the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, will have to issue bonds with the State guarantee. It's all going to cost taxpayers and we're all going to pay for it, no matter how big that amount is. Where do we get the money? We will probably have to take responsibility for this because this money is not in Slovenia today. We are doing everything we are doing to convince the international financial markets that we can repay and that we will return this money someday. At this point, you all know better than I do that this is impossible and that interest on Slovenian debt is above 6% – 7% is approaching. All the measures we are implementing are designed primarily to bring the interest rate down to our debt and to enable them to remain in debt in the long term. Every debate on how much this will cost and who will pay for it is irrelevant to me because at least the final amount is known to the banks. Once again, if all Slovenian banks fail, there will be about €15 billion for taxpayers, but we will always pay taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u44	Perhaps you could just explain when you asked how we would deal with the following cases. I'd say it's as responsible as we have been so far. If we had three banks at this point that we thought should go into forcible liquidation, we'd put three banks in forcible liquidation. In Slovenia we had only two banks and only two banks went into compulsory liquidation. For other banks, whose capital needs to be strengthened, there are different instruments with which the Governor has already responded in part and no such amounts are coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircelj, on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I certainly want an answer with regard to the country's deposits in these banks. Once again, I am talking about the fact that the state has a lot of deposits in the banking system and what these deposits do with them. This is a state investment, 80 million out of 3 billion and something else. That's not a very good investment. The question is whether it's a safe investment. As we see now, it's not a safe investment. Such matters are extremely important because on one hand we owe ourselves, the state owes itself, it owes itself 5.65%, 5.60% interest rate on the last loan – correct me if any decimals are wrong – and on the other hand it has deposits that it places somewhere. Here is the question of the economy, there is no question that someone needs to be helped, humanitarian activities, etc. We're talking about the financial economy. The next issue, which is extremely related to this – we are talking about burden tests. It would be very good to hear here, and a lot of data would be available if we could figure out what these burdens are, what a ten-bank stress test means. I hope that 10 banks will remain in the stress test, that these two banks that have now gone into liquidation will not be eliminated. I think it would cover or block the entire picture of the Slovenian banking system, and that would not be good. Second of all, what are the conditions of these burdens? What does "load" mean? The burden means that there are some different circumstances in which these banks will operate — these are supposed to be burden tests — such as the fall in consumption by so much and so many percent, the fall in GDP by so much and so much percent, the fall in deposits by so many percent. This is predetermined. On this basis, load tests shall be carried out. The results will depend on the reality of these burdensome assumptions, on the one hand, and on how much more these banks can do. The results will be clear for NLB already in October, for the other banks with the end of November. Then we can be prepared, and not too negatively surprised to be any shocks, these things are likely to be anticipated by now. Here is another very important question for these two banks – how many loans have these two banks been given by state banks and will these two banks go to the Bank's Claims Management Company? Under the state banks, I include Novo Ljubljanska Banka, Novo Kredittní banka Maribor and parastate banka. How do you get rid of it? Because this is about whether, through these guarantees, government banks are being rescued through these recapitalisations. In what kind of relationship will this be with the resolution of state banks through the Banks Claims Management Company? Indeed, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims will have to issue bonds with or without State guarantee. I think both options are possible. But these guarantees are set in this law for 4 billion. A billion and 30 million, I understand, have already been spent on these two banks, because these two banks have also gone into this system. If that's the case, then I don't know where enough of the 4 billion that are written here now. Because these two banks went into the system. 25 % for two banks with a 4 % market share, 25 % of the guarantees. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Governor has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u48	First, answer the question about the country's deposits. The country's deposits have been in the past four years, and they will say so from the Ministry of Finance, regardless of which government was in power, about 300 million euros in both banks. This is because I cannot imagine that the Slovenian government or budget would have deposits abroad. This ensures, on the one hand, the implementation of the budget and, on the other hand, the liquidity of banks. Question two: Load tests. We can give you precise information on the assumptions of the stress tests carried out in accordance with the recommendations and directives of the European Central Bank. As you know, in the framework of the European Central Bank system for the following year, burden tests and asset quality reviews are being prepared for all European banks precisely to determine the situation in the European banking system and to establish a single banking regulator. I've got a different opinion myself. I think it's better that instead of 10 banks, we only run tests for 8 banks because these two banks were so problematic that they could corrupt the tests and demand more money to recapitalise the banks and to transfer to the Bank's Claims Management Company. Third question. All bank loans to these two banks amounted to approximately EUR 300 million, regardless of the time period. Most of it is government banks. On the last question, the Ministry of Finance is likely to have a more detailed answer. As far as I know, the guarantee for these two banks is outside the given guarantee for the issue of the bonds of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. That's why that guarantee doesn't change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircelj, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u50	About the guarantee. I'm surprised it's out of the Banks Claims Management Company. If this is outside the Bank Claims Management Company, then this guarantee must come to the National Assembly and must be confirmed by the National Assembly. Because for guarantees, the law governing the Banks Claims Management Company makes it clear that it is 4 billion. A special inter-sectoral or inter-ministerial commission shall determine this, as long as it goes to the government. If this guarantee is outside, then this guarantee is made under the Public Finance Act. Under the Public Finance Act, the National Assembly must grant this guarantee, as approved for the TEC, and as it was probably approved for anyone else. This means, and it must also be clarified that if this guarantee is outside this law, it is not there because it must first come to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm also giving the word to the government's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. It's very easy to tell. If you look at Article 24 of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, it is clear that it is possible to give a guarantee outside the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and outside the 4 billion guarantees that the State may provide to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Article 24 of the Act, paragraph 1, clearly states in which case such a guarantee may be granted. This is a guarantee of extreme liquidity. In extreme urgency, it is known what it means — in the case of such measures, which have been imposed, in the event of liquidity provision at the time of the bank’s controlled cessation, when liquidity is provided by the Bank of Slovenia. From this point of view, the legal case is fully settled. Perhaps just two additions to the previous questions. Firstly, why these two banks do not make sense to maintain them as part of a load test exercise. If the burden tests are intended to determine how much capital a bank should need in the next period for normal, sustainable economic activity, then it is clear why we do not keep them in the stress tests, because these two banks will no longer operate in the medium term and in the long run. That is why we agreed with the Bank of Slovenia and also with the European interlocutors to exempt these two banks from carrying out burden tests. However, work on the quality analysis of the asset already being carried out in both banks will also make sense for the preparation of a liquidation plan for both banks. The work that has already been done will not be done in vain, but will be used meaningfully for the liquidation plan. There was also a question regarding the country's deposits. Indeed, the system currently has a single treasury account of about €3.6 billion. However, this is not an average annual situation, but a figure that varies depending on budget implementation itself, on principal payments, on our refinancing in the markets. The average situation is usually between €2 and €2.5 billion. Why the number is so much higher this year, it is also quite clear – due to the dynamics of budget implementation and, in particular, to the fact that we have the necessary resources in the accounts for the recapitalisation of banks in accordance with the adopted budget in Balance B when careful checks and burden tests are completed and when we can also, in accordance with the European Commission's permission, because these are state aid procedures, such recapitalisations will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Once again on behalf of the proposer, Mr Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u54	62 measures of the Bank of Slovenia were mentioned. Governor, what are the effects of these measures? If something is written on paper, there is something, but if something is actually done, and it has some effect, then it probably wouldn't happen. I'm very glad we'll have assumptions about the stress tests. I don't know, maybe you know what it is now. Given that you have mentioned that the security of deposits is limited, I ask what measures will be taken in this area. We are talking about the fact that the banking system cannot guarantee deposits up to EUR 100,000. The state should come forward and take over the guarantee in one way or another, so you mentioned — that the banking system cannot take over this guarantee anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Procedurally has Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll make a procedural proposal, but I'd like to say two sentences first. We've been going around in a vicious circle for three hours, because it's not clear to the proposer of this session. Interestingly, the drafter is a writer of the law on DUTB, a man who was employed by the DUTB or was a non-executive director and a kabayagi on banking knows everything. Then we find that he does not read the law, he does not know the articles and here he tortures all of us, Members and Members, and especially the Slovenian public. I was very concerned about this meeting and I am also concerned today about the situation in the banking system that I am not saying what is happening to investigative teams on the ground today. However, I am calm as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia because he knew clearly, responsiblely, to tell me Mr Jazbec as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Now it is a political trick – I will say for the sake of the public – where Mr Šircelj and SDS want to put Mr Jazbec, who is not used to politics, in a situation where he will run out of time so that they can perform two hours after that. By not having received one word after three hours, at least to praise or anything, I propose that you, Madam Vice-President, put to the vote to end this meeting, to vote on those conclusions and to go home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. We have limited time, each group as long as it is available. I'd like to ask that we proceed with the meeting. Mr Governor has made a statement, and then perhaps we should go to the debate of the other Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u58	The question of what was the effect of 62 measures. The effect of 62 measures was that, on 6 September, we started the process of closing both banks. The second issue was the guarantee of EUR 400 million of guaranteed deposits. Today, no bank can do this because we do not have a guarantee fund in Slovenia, as in some other countries. Whenever there is a situation that is happening to us now, all banks in the Slovenian banking system must jointly guarantee the payment of the deposits of guaranteed savers. At this point, the 400 million additional money needed for payment is not available, and therefore the state should temporarily give the money it would then require from all banks in the system. Such a procedure shall also be prepared for all other banks in the event that this occurs. As I have said, there is now no doubt that any other bank would have problems such as those we had at Factor Bank and Probank, so there is, at least at this point, no reasonable doubt and suspicion that we would not be able to continue to provide protection for all applications. Even on your previous question whether the country's roles in Slovenian banks are safe – yes, as safe as the roles of every single, every saver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We will continue the debate with Mr Brane Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u60	Nice hello to you all! In some ways, with these professional answers, calm answers, direct and direct responses, the Governor and the representative of the Government have said and responded to everything, so that what Mr Han has proposed could indeed be done – to open the debate on these recommendations, to vote and to go home. The fact is that this also points to a new wind that you want or do not want to bring about by this government — an open, transparent, peaceful operation. I would repeat what is in one of the many answers — and when some of you do not want to hear the answers, you will eventually ask him what he ate for breakfast. He will answer that question, and you will still not want to hear what he has to say. The fact is, the Governor said that we're closing the banks, and if we close the banks, we're not saving the owners of the shares, nor are we saving the owners of the subordinated bonds. This is one of the first cases in Slovenia, as far as I am monitoring not to save owners. The owners will lose so many and so many millions – I think it was said that 200 million were bad. The second thing the governor said and is very important to me is that if we went bankrupt, taxpayers would also pay, perhaps even significantly more, and certain companies in Slovenia would fail. If certain small and medium-sized enterprises that have credit in one of these two banks are failing – if I understand correctly – should immediately return this credit – it would mean that I could no longer operate. It's very likely that these companies would have gone bankrupt as well. If these companies go bankrupt, they have problems with their partners, partner companies. There are problems with payment, unemployment or forgiveness, and eventually everything goes into the budget of social transfers. Personally, I think that the decision taken by Banka Slovenije, together with the Government, is a decision that looked at the entire forest, and the entire forest is Slovenia. She wasn't just looking at two trees and who had something in there. It is also true that in history, near and distant, small events, some of which were indifferent to which they were not identified, were not properly resolved and caused major crises. This is even easier in the global world. It is no longer a small event and it is therefore important that the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia address this problem as they did. There's something else about responsibility. The responsibility of those who have led to this situation is slowly evident. They will slowly face the consequences of their actions. Today's house investigations in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and related, the detention of one of the leading bankers and the suspicion or investigation of another leading banker suggest that something is happening in this country and that a different wind is blowing. I would say that the liquidation of these two banks, these two trees, is the right decision to look at the whole of Slovenia and keep us above water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. We received a number of correct questions from the proposer, and we also received the correct answers from the Governor and the Minister. At this point I note that I will be able to decide on the conclusions, and I also note that this is a school case of how the Bank of Slovenia must react and how the Government must react – quickly, decisively and professionally. I think this measure was right and fast. We've been doing this for days, if I say so, a five-year-old, ever since the collapse of a mineral bank in America, and we've seen what the consequences were when the banking system crashed around the world and we're still in some kind of crisis that started right there. Out of some kind of fear, mistrust, etc. When we look at how the crisis occurred in other countries especially in banking, I find that they reacted quickly, effectively and quietly. In Germany alone, 10% of GDP was injected directly into banks in 2008 and resolved the matter quickly, effectively and quietly. In Britain, 15% of GDP in banks has been supported, but it doesn't matter. The point is, all these things were handled with public money. National banks and governments have reacted as they should. We also have cases in Switzerland – 2008 a flashing government action, a central bank, EUR 4.8 billion of new capital, 50 billion from a bank to a bad bank and 20 billion from recapitalisation from loans. And somehow they solved the matter. We can see that these measures worked. After 5 years, we have found that we have placed 2% of GDP in banks. It is clear that this share will have to be increased unfortunately, and without this resolution it will not be. The first Janša government in 2008 did not perceive this problem at all. They didn't realize there was anything wrong with banking. Pahor's government detected him, but it underestimated him. The second Janša government saw this problem and took it seriously. Let's think about how we passed the bad bank law if we call it that. The opposition opposed this to unconsciousness. We also had threats with referendums, etc. We have missed a year that this matter is now somehow established and that we are on a path that has been drawn long ago and we are all aware that it is the only right thing to do and we need to stick to it. The current government is following this, but we find that the European Commission is complicating with some additional stress tests, etc., and we are losing valuable time again. But it counts every day. We see that the opposition is not convinced that liquidation is a better way than bankruptcy. I can say, of course it is. A better way and the only way, and I can't imagine having an unsupervised bankruptcy. This means panic, deposit swaps, etc. If we can afford this, it means that there will be no more lending and economic growth will stop or economic growth will not occur at all. Not only that – because there will be no money, we will pay our salaries in vouchers, in potatoes, in trades. We need to be aware of that, and that's not something to play with. There has been a lot of talk about responsibility, and I agree with that. Responsibility is the other part that follows bank resolution. I am sure that this responsibility is already being carried out. Justice, the police are working. We see this from day to day, and I think we need to trust these institutions. I don't care if I get the information that is bank secrecy right now, but it's important that those who are first called in this country get it. They're enjoying my full trust right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircelj, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Braniselj, I still have to intervene here in the light of the things you have said – that the government of Janševa has done nothing for small investors and that the government of Janša was not the one that has submitted actual legislation that protects small investors or that protects investors up to EUR 100,000. Here I can tell you that Janša's government, and at the time, the Finance Minister of the late Dr. Bajuk, drafted the law, adopted the law, including on the basis of the European directives, to ensure that the guarantees of the remaining banks and the State guarantee are provided for small investors. This was against the end of this government in 2008. I think the new National Assembly has already taken this decision and adopted this legislation. It was adopted and proposed to the National Assembly by the government of Janšev at the end of 2008. So that Janša's government hasn't done anything, there's a lot of hair drawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircel. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Honourable Governor, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! In the beginning, I can say that this debate that I am listening to, even now, is the final question by the proposer and also the answer by the governor – all of this seems very meaningful to me. This debate seems to me particularly meaningful in view of the fact that in this Chamber we have representatives of the responsible institutions, in particular the most responsible – the Bank of Slovenia, which I can say is the most responsible for the state of the banks we have today in Slovenia. We know and we have been saying this all the time, and we have been stressing this for quite some time – the situation of Slovenian banks is very bad, and we are discussing this today. We know that the situation of banks in Slovenia is bad that this has not been the case since yesterday. We know that this has been dragging for quite some time, and we know that already in 2009, when these problems occurred in banks, the Bank of Slovenia had to act, and unfortunately it did not. In the Slovenian People's Party we have already very often and also stressed that Banka Slovenije must take a more active approach to the problems that have arisen in banks. On 9 March 2011, at the request of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I drew some information from the magnetogram, and at the request of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliament's Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and at that time, I dealt with the issue of liability mainly for uncovered bank loans. Some binding decisions were also adopted at that time. Decisions were adopted unanimously, which called on the Bank of Slovenia to report on the situation in the banking system. I can say that the then Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Kranjec, has talked a lot about the bank's proper supervision of the system of action and that there are no liquidity problems in the banking system. Although the Bank of Slovenia has implemented measures in the form of recommendations, requests, warnings, orders and the like, we know that very little has happened, so – I think it is right to stress this – Slovenian People's Party President Radovan Žerjav has repeatedly called on the former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to resign. We know that things have deteriorated rapidly in the banking system. The credit market situation was worse from month to month. Now we know that there has also been a steady increase in the share of bad loans. I can say that in the Slovenian People's Party we have actively tried, in particular, to exert pressure from the policy point of view on the more active exercise of control, and we have very often received indications that Banka Slovenije is an independent body and that politics has no place here. In professional circles, it wasn't just rustling. Everyone who means anything in banking in Slovenia knew, many also talked publicly about how critical the situation is in Factor Bank and in Probank a few years ago, except perhaps those who should first know – Banka Slovenije. And they probably didn't realize that. Although the Bank of Slovenia called for the necessary recapitalisation of these two banks, unfortunately nothing happened. Therefore, in my opinion, the new Governor of Banka Slovenije, after this rapid review he had – very little time at his disposal – had no choice but to do what happened. I am convinced that the measure implemented by Mr Jazbec, the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, was the only logical measure in this situation. The fact is, both banks were on the verge of liquidity failure. They simply waited too long in this agony. The excuse for the possibility of bank bankruptcy sounds good. That's probably easy to say. But what would the bankruptcy of a bank in this country mean? This is a very important question for me. I am convinced that this would mean that the Bank of Slovenia, as the key supervisory authority, has covered the entire line and that it does not control the situation. At the same time, it is necessary to take full responsibility to know what would happen in the bank windows of other banks if, on Friday afternoon, part of Slovenian savers, even if they are companies alone and even if those who have more than 100,000 euro deposits in the accounts have lost their money. What would that mean for the Slovenian banking system? What would this mean for confidence in the Slovenian banking system? I'm sure it's a disaster. In my view, controlled liquidation is a better solution than uncontrolled bankruptcy, but only on one condition – if the extraordinary management set up by Banka Slovenije not only carried out this liquidation but also reviewed transactions between all connected persons. Both banks are characterised by the interconnectivity of applications, namely ownership, control and management functions and even the main committees of these banks. It was credited to relatives, it was credited to connected companies, a lot of money was earmarked for the management acquisitions of individuals who were somehow related to these two banks. If all these participants are lucky today that we cannot simply bankrupt the bank, let all these individuals explain to the investigating authorities where the high rewards come from, where the high dividends from companies that own and should recapitalise their banks are from, where the approvals of such high and unsecured loans are from, where the high wages of managers are so high. Today, the crucial question is what the liquidation of these two banks means for the comprehensive resolution of the banking system that we have to implement in Slovenia. For the time being, from a technical point of view, what has now happened is dripping into the sea, because we know that both banks have a larger share, as we have heard several times today, of 4% of the market share in Slovenia. This is true, but the controlled liquidation of these two banks, which we are talking about today, is a test for the country and, above all, for the Bank of Slovenia, which has taken on the role of an extraordinary manager. I am confident that the continuation of the resolution of the banking system will not succeed without the criminal and compensation consequences for those responsible in these two banks and later in other banks. It just won't be. Why? Because the Slovenian public will not accept it. Without the support of the citizens of this project, the Slovenian banks' rehabilitation project, there will be no successful rehabilitation. Very simple, people have enough money in the budget to finance banks, even some private ones, while on the other hand there is a new tax burden on us each month – today's VAT hike, tomorrow's real estate tax, tomorrow's freeze on tax reliefs, and I'm not talking about crazy ideas about abolishing municipalities, and I'm not talking about anything like that. From this city as a Member, honourable Governor, I appeal primarily to you, to Banka Slovenije, that you now have a wonderful opportunity to expose irregularities through your extraordinary administration in these two banks. You can expose connections, I'm sure, because they're practically happening in front of everyone. In the end, there is also appropriate legislation to confiscate illegally acquired property. That is exactly what should happen in such a case — the dispossession of the assets involved, the confiscation of the assets, etc. We have a legal basis so we can get these things out. If this practice were then to continue in other banks, it might even convince people that the rehabilitation would be a new start and that it would not be just a re-bolding period, that it would be possible to create a competitive banking system from which users – banking services at competitive prices – would have the most directly – and the Slovenian economy would need fresh money for its development. Once again, I expect the Bank of Slovenia to cooperate with the investigating authorities or with the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which are both responsible for the prosecution of economic crime, and to find a nominal responsibility for the balance sheet situation. The Bank of Slovenia is an independent institution, but also an institution in the service of citizens and citizens. Don't let them down this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Honourable Governor Dr. Jazbec with co-workers, Honourable Secretary of State! Instead of the introduction, I would like to comment on the statement made by my distinguished colleague Frangež. I'm sorry he's not in the hall. I know it's not right of me, but it seems that in the deficit of ideas it consistently points to one of the original sins – to the construction of Slovenian highways, which we did very quickly during the 2004-2008 term. It pains me that it also indirectly points to the construction of the wall, as we commonly call the highway connection with Hungary. No one, not even the greatest enemy if I had one, would be allowed to drive 5,000 heavy trucks by his house every day and poison him with gas. Because trucks are the ones who understand the free movement in Europe, and they have understood this since 1 May 2004. Colleagues and colleagues, I welcome today's debate. I see that we are holding together in some way when we want to find the villains who led Slovenia to this stage in which it is today, especially the Slovenian banking system. We have to stick together here. I value you all very much, and I believe, for everyone, I put my hand in the fire, that he is an honest man, despite the fact that we receive very poor marks in public. But look what's going on. This debate is and will be of quality today. I haven't believed in cases in a long time. I believe that things in our lives are controlled from above because I am a man of faith. Unfortunately, they're from the bottom and the side. Why did today exactly one hour before this meeting come the information that Mr. Medja, President of the NLB administration, is detained and that Dr. France Arhar, the first of the NLB supervisors, is also in the investigation? In order to neutralise today's debate – we will be relatively little mentioned in the media space. Today's debate here has been feared and feared by many. This is the scenario of events in Slovenia that someone manages, someone controls. This is manipulation with the Slovenian public, with citizens and citizens. Until the citizens realize they're being manipulated on a daily basis, it won't be any different. I miss the Minister of Justice here today. I have already repeated hundreds of times that the Slovenian economy and all of us are shouting about the rule of law. We're going to make a lot of decisions today. We're going to take responsibility. Dear colleagues and colleagues, nothing will happen, no one will answer. Allow me to understand in my own way the message of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, whom, after his performance or performances, I take him as an honest interlocutor with the National Assembly. He said several times that he would not comment on Banka Slovenije in the past. Of course he won't, because he's a gentleman. But I understand that it is in fact - we have often seen and pointed out the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as well as in plenary sessions. Unfortunately, she did not operate in these two banks. That's my view. When owners, managers, supervisors, and I don't know who else, Factor Bank and Probanks saw that at the end of last year, the law on measures to strengthen the banking system in Slovenia entered into force, they probably also saw that the joke was taken by the devil, and the banks were put to their knees. When the new governor arrived on July 17th, the banks were already dead. They can only perform an autopsy, and yes, funeral expenses, Comrade Shircel, are great. Unfortunately, the seven will be even more expensive. I don't expect anything else. I'm willing to help with my money to save the banking system because the economy needs it. But I'm holding you accountable, and I'm demanding fair management, fair and square. Honesty is neither left nor right, although, as colleague Bojan Starman said, the bank was probably an elite bank. I kind of feel for those who come from the left political province, because these elites are also from the left political province. Let's leave this alone today. Once again, in some way, I want us to step together and once again from the executive branch of power, demand action from the judicial branch of government, the realization of our demands, because otherwise all of us are laughing at each other. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a single mechanism for bank resolution, which we discussed at yesterday's meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee, which will weigh 60 billion in 10 years, but these two banks will not be saved from this fund. As I understand it, and as has already been said, we are not saving them, but we are destroying them in a controlled manner. As long as I am, colleagues and colleagues, in European affairs – if I could have the opportunity, I would have given a fine to the College of the President of the National Assembly. This is because today he has given four committees to talk to European Commissioner Johannes Hahn only one hour. It's a shame, colleagues and colleagues, it's making a fool of yourself. But when we talk about Europe as external enemies, it will be available for 8 hours. From cohesion funds, from European funds, we have the only money for the development of this country. We get a Commissioner once a year and then four committees talk to him for an hour. I can't accept this and I'll never accept it. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we may all consider together that the committee responsible, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, should have regular monthly meetings, where I would also meet with the governor, because I understood him as a good interlocutor with the National Assembly, and that we monitor how the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system is taking place. Indeed, it would be interesting to see what has been happening in these two banks since the entry into force of the law, which has also established a so-called bad bank. If Borut Pahor were, I would probably say that when this law was enforced, rats began to leave these two banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u70	Just so we're clear, Mr. Horvat. Unfortunately, the College did not decide how long we could talk to Mr Hahn because the College did not decide on this matter. I'm a member of the college, and we haven't talked about this for a second, so you have to address this issue elsewhere. As far as left and right elites are concerned, I guess you don't consider me to be the Ring One, because there's a lot of, I'll say, right elites who made a hole in the banking system, but they probably belonged to you. But now that we're betting in terms of left and right, we won't get far.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u71	Thank you very much. This was an abuse of the procedural proposal. We continue the debate. Mr. Tinker Bell, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u72	Good-bye, Your Honor! My colleague Horvat said he felt compassion for those who came from the left political province, because the elites you save through the pockets of taxpayers, especially those of small ones, come from the left political province. I think we need to be compassionate with everyone who saves these two banks and who pays for this rehabilitation. The greatest burden will be borne by those with the lowest income — workers, farmers, pensioners, and, above all, by young people who thus take up their future. In the past days and even today we have heard quite a bit, I would say, the failures and inexplications that raise new and new questions about the procedure that was triggered in the case of these two relatively insignificant banks in the Slovenian banking area. I believe that they were important for the left-wing elites if I use this term again, which is a reflection of the actual situation, and for companies that not only control them, but are their owners and will obviously continue to own them. Not even the euro will be taken out of their pocket for the rehabilitation of these banks. However, these two banks were not relevant to the share they held and which is below 4 % in the banking area. Above all, they were not important to be saved in connection with the stability of the banking system in a way that pays everyone everything, including those with more than 100,000 euros in deposits. Today, it has been said several times that this method was better, that it was better to liquidate and that everyone gets paid for everything, including the great, the richest. We have heard that for about 270 million of this money, there are over 100,000 euros, as if that were not the case. It was said that this procedure was cheaper for taxpayers. How, I ask you – how? If those who have more than 100,000 euros received a maximum of 100,000 euros, and if the country, when its share, its claim, turned its investment into an equity share, demanded that all more than 100,000 euros do so to turn this surplus into a equity share of these new banks in the liquidation process, surely this cost would not be higher for taxpayers, but would be lower. However, I would be less favourable to ladies and gentlemen who continue to wallow in supervisory councils, administrations and elsewhere in the Republic of Slovenia. In a more orderly country, such as the Republic of Serbia, they can no longer do so because some have been denied a life-long ban on colliding through these supervisory councils and administrations. We have heard that some, even in financial institutions such as the first pension company, etc., where I fear that, with the approach taken by the left governments in the banking system over the past five years, we will see similar scenarios in this area. Then you'll come back and say it has to be covered because some have broken. As a result, this debate is important if it has any effect in the mental leap or in the heads of those who are obviously not protecting public and public interest, the interests of people and taxpayers, but protecting the interests of certain lobbying — that is more than obvious. For today it has been repeatedly said that if a scenario such as this was not adopted on Friday afternoon on 6 September, the stability of the Slovenian banking system would be undermined – we would all just be looking for roles and going wild in these banks. Certainly, especially those who get 500 or 600 euros a month. We would certainly be planning for those few thousand euros they know — this has been said repeatedly — that their deposits are up to 100,000 euros, in any case. Probably one of those who has a few million would have been on fire — the one who hasn’t when he found out what condition these two banks were in, what he already knew. He saw it through the balance sheet because he was involved in these structures. These mainly caused this problem, which is now being solved by the government of Alenka Bratušek in the same way as it is – the illiquidity of the bank, etc. With this so-called programmed liquidation, this government still rewards them at the expense of small people. I think that there is a much greater threat to the further stability of the Slovenian banking system and to the denial of the confidence of people in the Slovenian banks, as far as is left, today's statement by the Governor, which said that all Slovenian banks, more than 96%, would not be able to provide 400 million at this time to cover guaranteed deposits up to EUR 100,000. This statement is more problematic. It has a much greater weight, it's real, it's based on arguments, it was made by a credible person who finally told us where our banking system is – what all the previous governors were hiding. Even those who bought shares of Lehman Brothers a few days before bankruptcy and did not have any proceedings initiated in all these years, but in the period after having done approximately $30 million in damage to the Bank of Slovenia and with that country, were still happily sitting in several ministerial positions or at least one. So much for how those responsible will answer and who will. On the other hand, the prosecution and the police, even specialised departments, question people about the opinions they make on public tribunals. As my colleague Horvath said, as long as this mentality and this power are of those who are a problem and who are part of some, forgive the expression, the political mafia, no one in this country will answer. This process, which is a defence in this case, also speaks of the continued protection of protected persons, not only of their capital, which they have seized over the past 20 years, but also of their personal, criminal and other responsibilities. Today, we have not received the answers to a number of essential questions – why the government of Alenka Bratušek is saving those with deposits of more than 100,000 euros if the European direction is to ensure the stability of the banking system is primarily to be taken care of by those up to 100,000 euros, which are not even so small, let us be honest. Relatively few people play such high roles in banks. The direction of the European Union is also that, in such a case as has occurred in Probank and in Factor Bank, which have been very narrowly connected to banks in relation to this collapse, relative, interesting and different, and also in general, in other banks, the main burden, responsibilities, specific responsibilities, including financial ones, must be taken over by those with deposits over EUR 100,000. In no way is it permissible for the main burden to pass on taxpayers' wallets, which has happened in the case of these two banks. Someone said today, I think from the National Gazette, that this is a school case, how the banks are supposed to get rid of it. Really? When it really breaks down – and if this bad bank doesn't come to life – something like that in one of the major banks, will you cover all the deposits there over 100,000 euros? Where are you going to cover them, who's going to pay for this, and by when is that going to be possible? Why not do what any normal master would have done — to demand responsibility from those who are most responsible to demand that the same share of the burden as the State takes over by converting this share — be taken over by those deposits? Why none of the owners, leading members of the supervisory boards of these private banks were frozen assets on Friday 6. 9. until the procedures are completed? Why is no one being tried for responsibility? Moreover, why do some clearly continue to occupy these high positions in many other companies and other important institutions? Why? Is it because it comes from, as it was said, the left political province, because it is members or sympathizers of the former United List of Social Democrats, LDS, as well as some of the former high policies? One of them sat there for a while as president of the National Assembly. At the time, 20 years ago, it was not a few million euros or even 10 million euros — it is today. Is this because it is people who have been in the last 20 years — beware, in the last 20 years, not in the last 50 or 100 years — rich people whose assets amount not to a few hundred thousand or a few million but more than 10 million euros? Apparently, a large part of this property is due to such or other fluctuations and machinations with these financial amounts in the same way as in the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia. If this process was done because the government of Alenka Bratušek was concerned about the companies in the portfolio of these banks in order for workers to lose their jobs, then it would be possible to understand this step if, at the same time, all of these assets were temporarily frozen and they were no longer the owners of these companies. Then it could be understood that gentlemen who are now the owners of poultry, Trima, ACH, and I do not know what else, this property would freeze temporarily and that after the balance sheets have been cleared, we see who is left in the end. Just as it is now that all other owners of this property and taxpayers will pay the burden of rehabilitation of these banks over a billion euros, I think it is wrong and that there is an example of how we should not act. This will not increase people's confidence in this country and the institutions of the rule of law and people's confidence in our banking system. In this way, to the great, most responsible for the situation, everything will be left, and to the fact that these banks will be saved through small people's wallets, small savers, I would say that the Government is in some way supporting banking banditry, as my colleague Shircelj spoke about today, otherwise the mechanisms available would prevent these people from further collapsing through administrations, supervisory councils and other individual institutions in this country. This model is also the expectation of people to move forward. Wherever it breaks, as I have already said, people expect the approach to be the same and in the following cases the role of all to unlimited heights will be safe. This is expected by some who had significantly smaller roles, perhaps just a few thousand euros, and in the past 20 years, because of the bankruptcy of Les, Elan's bank, they have been completely lost. The same approach is expected today, for example, by the savers of the Sicura Savings Facility, and it is not up to €100,000. There were mostly amounts of up to €10,20 000. They lost everything. The same approach is now expected back, as these two procedures were taking place in the same country, in the same system. This model, which was introduced here, is right if we are going to a fair country to apply to these people. There's quite a few personal stories there. People were saving for age, grandchildren, schooling, some to go into surgery, etc. In both these banks or in the bank and in the savings office, when you talk about liability, no process of exercising responsibility has been completed in a way that is responsible. In the case of Elan, you know the judge forgot to write a timely verdict. However, in the case of the Sicura Savings Facility, in the process that lasted so long, all programmed together was obsolete. Now it's the bankruptcy manager, but this one won't bring the money that blew up in Sicura's storage room. If this is not done, there will be an even greater public belief that it is in some way a systemic theft in this country, especially those that are part of a political nomenclature, and that this government is protecting you, but not everyone else. During the second Janša government, we heard very strong statements by the Social Democrats, especially the visible representative – at the time, I think that the leader of the parliamentary group – Mr Jank Webra, who is now the President of Parliament, was very strong about the fact that the privatisation programme of the state-owned companies adopted by the Janša government – was significantly worse – the one you then adopted in the late spring of this year. How could such social-democratic words, or such a dictionary as was then used, refer to the rescue of wealthy owners of two banks owned by the transition left of small people's wallets? That's what I mean about the social-democracy vocabulary a few months ago. Is this the treachery of the Slovenian people? Is it possible to rob, take places of pensioners, workers, farmers, and, above all, rob the future of the young people who, with such decisions, take their future? These and similar decisions will make them richer and fewer jobs for young people. I believe that a number of people would say, at this last debate, that this is a matter of populism, but I think that we have been following the worst-of-kind population in the past year, when you have been blocking solutions for better management of state property for more than half a year, and when you have blocked the so-called bad bank for more than half a year, which is why taxpayers will now pay even higher amounts, on the one hand for the rehabilitation of these banks and on the other hand, because the management of state property is even worse and even worse than ever. Last but not least, the population of these governments, the worst of all species, can be monitored today. Just the day Parliament discusses a serious problem that will cost taxpayers higher taxes and higher burdens in billions of dollars, and young people rob their future, a police investigation is under way, but be careful – not against those who approved loans in the New Ljubljana Bank. The names and signatures are all listed, all known as they knew at the time they signed them, that they would never be returned. The police investigation is not against those, but against the President of the current administration, Mr Medja, and against the President of the Supervisory Board, Mr Arhar. Interesting! I think you're top-notch writers, but there are times when sheep get tired of getting cut, and I believe that's going to happen in this country. Today we have heard from the most responsible, and even in the past days, that banks in Slovenia are in poor condition, and probably part of this poor situation is also due to failure to act in the past. Much of this responsibility, in my opinion the greatest, is borne by the government of Pahor. In 2009, this problem was on the table, it was transparent, detected, also supported by all calculations and information, and should then approach the beginning of the resolution of this problem. Even your former president and Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, admitted that this was a mistake. In May 2009, we proposed the establishment of a so-called bad bank – more than four years ago – in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group during a package of measures to resolve the economic situation, and we proposed that it be implemented with full responsibility for members of administrations, supervisory boards and also for the owners of banks where private banks are concerned. This recovery of the banking system is expensive. Obviously it will be even more expensive, and to a large extent because we did not do so at the time, because we did not or did not start this process in 2009, and also because some of you blocked the so-called bad bank in a populist way last year for six months. What seems very problematic to me is also the confidentiality of the data. We have listened to this mantra about banking for the last 5, 10 years, and this government also obviously wants to protect everyone responsible for this situation under cover of confidentiality. There are no data on who has raised these higher amounts in these two banks in recent months, in recent years. There's no record of who or why he approved the loans he approved. I guess no one's gonna answer either. None of those who are supposed to be responsible will be responsible for these jobs. Instead of confiscating their assets or freezing them temporarily, you reward them with ever-increasing positions. If I finish. The rehabilitation of the banking system in this country will be significantly more costly than it would have to be, and will be paid primarily by small people because obviously one political option is not in the interest of clarifying these matters. This is not in her interest because it obviously protects people who are somehow capitalizing on these networks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk and Marka Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I am convinced that this extraordinary SDS meeting would occur regardless of whether Probank and Factor Bank would go into controlled liquidation or bankruptcy and, consequently, there could be panic in the banking market in the latter case. The information provided by the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije is very well reported that deposits in Slovenian banks also decreased by half a billion euros during the banking crisis in Cyprus in 14 days. Half a billion euros in 14 days for Cyprus. Thus, in the event of bankruptcy of two minor banks by the SDS, they would probably listen to Banka Slovenije allow bankruptcy of banks and consequently cause panic between savers and massive withdrawal of money from bank accounts at all banks in Slovenia. This could lead to a final bank failure in the country. Remember what measures we took at the beginning of the crisis at the end of 2008 and in 2009. With the law in the National Assembly, we have given a state guarantee for all depositors up to €100,000, thereby substantially strengthening the confidence of our savers that their savings are safe. Today, both Dr. Chufer and the Governor, Dr. Jazbec, convinced me, especially Dr. Jazbec, when he cited the case that the criticism of the measure did not occur until Monday afternoon, when it was clear to everyone that there was no panic among the savers. On Monday afternoon, everyone was so smart. It is also true that both options were poor and that Banka Slovenije chose a less poor option. It is therefore right for all those who are called upon to do so to demand the personal responsibility of all those responsible for the poor situation in our banking system. For a large part of the crisis, which we have been in for five years, it is the greed of the work of the Slovenian elite, from managers, bankers, lawyers and politicians and many other spheres of our society. If the leaders of the economy were involved in the development of their businesses and not in how they would own them with cheap borrowed money, how to make the most of public, state and municipal funds in public tenders, which resulted in a large amount of overpayment of investments, the situation today would be more manageable. Where they invested in development where they made smarter decisions, there is no crisis today, or it is significantly smaller than Krka, Kolektor, Gorenje, Revoz and could also be listed. Something else about elitists. My colleague Horvath said it was a political left-wing elite. These elites have had nothing to do with the left for a long time. These are greed elites, not right or left. Today, Slovenia needs a new development model. We made a small contribution yesterday at a meeting of the three parliamentary committees proposed by the three coalition parliamentary groups on the green budget reform. Prof. Emil Erjavec, the only person who attended the academic debate, described the document as a good professional political provocation and the opposition as a pianist move by colleague Matevž Frangež. Indeed, Slovenia today needs a new development model. We need to put the economic momentum, the new large infrastructure investments, the rehabilitation of the banking system, the provision of tax incentives for research and development, and the promotion of certain economic sectors such as construction, pharmaceutical and automotive industries, forestry, and the more efficient use of European funds, which are currently the only investment potential of this country. Today, both the Governor and the Minister convinced me that a real move had been made, and I am concluding my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, then Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Bank of Slovenia, together with the Government, decided to cut through this Gordija knot of Slovenian banks. True, it is only the first node, given the size of the two banks that are being discussed today, but a decisive reaction was needed and I am pleased that it happened. Liquidation or bankruptcy, that's the question. The liquidation is supposed to cost 400 million. Much of this is due to the revaluation of real estates that are still losing value due to market conditions, and it is clear to all of us that on such sales, where you have to sell in force, there are appropriate discounts. Furthermore, there are weaknesses in the transfer of credits to other banks, where a discount is also accounted for. At 2 billion balance sheet totals 400 million liquidation costs represent 20%. In the event of bankruptcy, it typically loses 75% of its value because it is a much faster liquidation of assets, which is also reflected in the discounts themselves. Even the most successful projects of this kind have resulted in a loss of at least 60%, which means that only 40% of the funds have been recovered – in the most successful cases, not in the state we have in the banking, economic and real estate system today in Slovenia. Taking into account the deposits of the wider sector of the country, it is clear that the result for citizens and citizens – municipalities have quite a few funds deposited in both banks – is even worse, even in the event of bankruptcy. This mountain of public money in these two banks requires an answer. The work was probably invested due to high interest rates and without taking into account the risks, but the part certainly also comes from friendly ones, not to say friendly ties. The data that owners don't have a significant share of deposits is not surprising, because you set up a bank to make profits with foreign money. You don't need a bank to do it with your own. The regularity of the decision of the Bank of Slovenia is also confirmed by the European Commission's provisional order, which requires a liquidation plan within 45 days before final confirmation. The extraordinary management of the banks is led by a foreigner, which still gives hope that this Gordy knot will finally begin to unravel without the interference of such and different comrade networks of uncles and botts. The ease with which many offer bankruptcy as a rescue solution shows not only that it favours populism against serious consideration of concrete data, but a complete misunderstanding of the functioning of the banking system. The effect of the Cyprus story, where the roles of all were frozen for one week and it was clear that small savers would lose nothing and that Cyprus was a completely different story than Slovenia, went from Slovenian banks to 500 million deposits. What it would mean for Slovenia and the Slovenian banks if the newspapers on the cover published "Slovenian banks are going bankrupt", we can only imagine. Undoubtedly, we'd be the most happy bankers across the border. They're laughing at us, and maybe they're lobbying for such a distraction. Here I cannot help but feel that those who elected the previous governor, who were in the midst of the ruling coalition, have found it difficult to accept the fact that the closets with skeletons have now begun to open. I also hope that the relevant lists will go to the relevant institutions as soon as possible and that other institutions, such as grids, will also be followed up to this time apparently protected. In advance, I apologize to those I will forget to mention, but the examples of Toběz, Korděž, Bavčar clearly show that this has started and will continue. Finally, we're saving private banks. We're on it? Disposal means termination, not rescue. The liquidation means that the owners will lose everything, not only the owners, but also the holders of certain subordinated securities that have consciously or unconsciously accepted the higher risk that such securities bring in exchange for the higher promised ones. Finally, it is obvious that radical measures – and the liquidation of the bank is a radical measure – are somehow easier to decide when it comes to private banks. In the case of the state, it is operated on all the time with recapitalisations, with a solution that does not appear to be over, nor with the costs that we impose on taxpayers. This is where you have to be cut off with this kind of action. But if we can still understand in private banks that there was a lack of greed in the background of the owners who had made the project, how do we understand that we had also imported state banks. It is probably the same greed, but in this case there are still unidentified actors operating in the background – there is a parliamentary commission dealing with this kind of problem, quite a debtor. Mr. President of this commission, we're counting on you. If you need our additional support for determination, I now express it to you on my behalf. Yes, unfortunately, there is still a situation ahead of us in the state banks, but the behaviour and, above all, the response of the Bank of Slovenia, at least gives me confidence in the Slovenian banking system. The action was carried out in close cooperation with the institutions of the European Union and the information was not made public until a carefully selected time. After the decision was taken, the responsible did not lock themselves up in their offices, but they kept communicating in an appropriate and transparent manner. The liquidation of these two banks is also understood as a first step to break this untransparent mix of policies and private interests. As a first step towards a normal banking system that will perform its primary function, by collecting deposits on the one hand and lending businesses on the other. I cannot help but feel that the banking system has so far been subordinated to some other objectives, both by the policy on the left and by the policy on the right. That's the best thing to show for it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Spread as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u78	Thank you very much. This certainly requires some response to what Mr Pavlisic said. In fact, he said so many things that a person is actually quite strange, what could be good and what really happened. There's a difference between bankruptcy and liquidation, and there can't be something much better than something else here, because if we keep saying that, then we'll never actually use bankruptcy, even when we should. Even in the future, when we should. If this is a model for the resolution of the Slovenian banking system, then this is a completely flawed model. Because the essential difference here is the guarantee scheme and responsibility. In fact, responsibility and the guarantee scheme will not be used or applied to all, including over €100,000. And that now, because of these 230 million, as far as these deposits are concerned over 100,000 euros, of which there are bank deposits, we are also talking about state banks that have a special status again and so on – we can't just automatically say that this is better, it's worse and so on. In fact, we will bring Slovenia into a state when we say that Slovenian banks are weapons for the destruction of Slovenia, not to say mass. And this is where you need to be careful. In this way, he hides himself and will continue to hide his actual responsibility. Last but not least, this is contrary to the European Union guidelines. The guidelines of the European Union and the European institutions call and say that banks should first save owners. Then they should be saved by the banking system and saved by taxpayers. We do exactly the opposite; first they are saved by taxpayers, owners have emptied banks, owners no longer have property, voting rights are taken from them – Banka Slovenije is theirs. After all, taxpayers will now be able to save banks, making them poorer and poorer; they will become poorer and poorer, of course, at the expense of the rich, at the expense of those who are also guaranteed 100,000 euros. The second thing to say here and what the government document also says is that, in addition to the billion-dollar guarantee, the state will recapitalise these two banks with EUR 400 million. It is said that the state will put the taxpayer's money into the recovery process so that these two banks will be rehabilitated for a long time, three, four years, and that it will actually be a matter of paying off those obligations that are questionable. So the procedure is completely different and the use of recapitalisation money for these two banks is, of course, questionable. Since there will be nothing left in the end, we will give another 400 million and this 400 million will go out of the budget. Different – for one bank more, for another less. That is why there is another important issue here, namely to cover up responsibility. It will, in my view, be easier to hide the responsibility of the supervisory boards and administrations than it would have been in bankruptcy proceedings, that is my opinion. And the opinion that appears here today, especially on the other hand, that all losses must be socialised, is viable. Today's not a good day. Maybe over the past 50 years we've been socializing everything, and no one ever knew who was giving any credit. Political loans were made, and the continuation was followed by state banks. The fact that state banks are now in the same status as private banks and that state banks are also poorly managed is, of course, a particular issue that I hope we will not consider at the next or one of the next meetings because there will be some problems in another bank again. But the banking system today – I'm surprised and very concerned by what the governor said the rest of the banks don't have the money to cover these deposits. Of course, there is another question about this: whether we will solve these two banks through the rehabilitation of the state banks as well. Because, as we have heard, state banks have also given loans to these two banks. This is then a parallel process that will probably not take place as transparent as it should be if this is resolved through the Banks Claims Management Company. There's something else you need to say when we're talking about left-wing Provinence. Look at the ownership structure of these banks; look who owns them, and see which owners of these owners are in bankruptcy. They went to bankruptcy or liquidation, which means the bank doesn't even have owners. And at the end of these companies, look at the people. Look at which natural persons are behind all these banks or behind all these companies that own them. The matter was clear. They were already listed. And it is also clear which societies were financed here and who was in the control world. To learn that the easiest thing to do is to socialise and not demand responsibility is now a real question. He himself would not with such great certainty, even if this measure had now been taken, talk about the saving model of liquidation and what would have happened if bankruptcy had occurred. I think that if it doesn't explain to people the difference between liquidation and bankruptcy – it can be very blurry and only verbally if someone says liquidation, liquidation, and another bankruptcy, I don't think anything would happen on this basis, and it wouldn't cause any panic on the bank windows or anything like that. What is worrying is that our banking system is in a situation as it is, as we can hear today. And it's worrying that it's being delayed and delayed with bank recovery. What was supposed to be done in June was not done because of the European institutions' mistrust in our banking and financial system. That's it! Of course, Finance Minister Schäuble can say that Slovenia should make bank and financial recovery if it so wishes. And she's going to do it by borrowing by enormous interest rates. Interest rates, lower interest rates are available in the context of bank resolution within Europe. Of course, this means something completely different; if Slovenia wants to get credit with lower interest rates, it will also have to do something. It's not a proposal. We read it in the papers. It's even threatening us. However, it is poor to take credit at such interest rates so that future generations are indebted and will work only for interest. That's what I think we can do on the left and on the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The governor has spoken, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u80	First, I would answer the question – the cost of recapitalisation. The total cost of liquidation for the budget and for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is estimated at 400 million; the additional amount of recapitalisation is only there to ensure the minimum solvency of both banks. As you know, at the capital requirements of both banks, they must have at least 8 % capital adequacy, which can be reduced to 0.5 % in the liquidation process, and this is a request for additional recapitalisation that allows us to draw out an emergency loan by the European Central Bank. Looks like we got off on the wrong foot. The banks have EUR 400 million that could be activated in the guarantee scheme, but we believe that the liquidity pressure of the rest of the banking system would be too high at the moment and there could be problems in the rest of the banking system. I am surprised to learn that the Slovenian banking system is in trouble. I think we have been in serious trouble for some time now, and we also know that NLB, NKBM and Abank are in the process of obtaining state aid and that we are therefore carrying out certain activities that we cannot carry out on our own without taking into account the directives of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, in particular in terms of carrying out the burden tests and reviewing the quality of the asset. Several times it has been emphasized, the call for responsibility for the mismanagement of the administrations, the supervisory councils and the owners of these banks. Bank owners will lose all their money, that is 122 million direct capital owners and 64 million subordinated bond owners. Responsibility for the bad decisions of both administrations, owners and supervisory councils can be sought in both procedures, both in bankruptcy and in the process of controlled liquidation. Unfortunately, our legislation does not allow the freezing of deposits and all other bad credits, deposits and other equity shares in connected persons, which is not the problem of the Bank of Slovenia again, but of inadequate legislation that currently does not exist in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerich, behind him is a mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. First, let me begin with Mr Shirtzl and Mr Chernač's remarks that the panic and mass lifting on the bank windows would not have happened. Of course that's not true, and I'll explain why. Let me mention the observation or important information that I have not heard here today, namely that the banks were not insolvent at all, but because of the sudden increase in the deposit raises they would have been inequitable or would have become insolvent in a short period of time, one bank in two or three days. What does that mean? Of course, we'd go bankrupt. Why did this sudden withdrawal of deposits come about? This is undoubtedly related to guesswork in newspapers where some, including recognized economists, spoke openly about the impending bankruptcy. So there was panic, and in this sense, the articles were in some way a prophecy that would come true itself. Let's take another look at what bankruptcy would mean. What would happen to the companies that have loans in these banks? In the event of bankruptcy, as we have heard, we should return them immediately. This would mean the collapse of these companies and, consequently, the system at this difficult moment in which our economy is located. It would give the economy a final blow. I really don't know who in this room would want this scenario. This scenario would immediately cause general panic and certainly cause both natural persons and investors to start raising their roles. In short, the Cyprus script — already seen — would have happened if our country had forcibly closed all the banks and limited the increase in the amounts. There would be a domino effect. In the given situation, Banka Slovenije saved the system of trust that money in banks will remain there in the future. However, if the opposition is convinced that Banka Slovenije's actions were wrong, or then considers that all other countries, including Germany, have acted wrongly when, as we have heard, they have also recapitalised their own private banks in the last five years. As I have already said on this site, the measure to eliminate the two banks is to put out the fire. A fire that would very likely ignite across the whole territory of Slovenia, and a huge fire would remain. Finally, let me remind you of the fact that in the event of bankruptcy today, everyone would also be here at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and the difference would be in the citing party, not the opposition party, but the troika. I thank both the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Minister of Finance for their full explanations and support their decision as the only correct one in the given situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak, behind him mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Your Honor! In the case of Factor Bank and Probank, it is not a system bank, but a project bank of the economic elite with a political pedigree. It is more than obvious that these banks were set up for special operations, parking lots and Taiwanese credits. We have heard which companies are in the background, including former politicians, even the former President of the National Assembly, Mr Herman Rigelnik, stands as a connected person in the ownership structure of these banks. It is more than obvious that the Bank’s activities were increasingly focused on some concern for savers, for the stability of the financial system. It is more clear that specific financial institutions were actually targeted at specific people for specific projects. It is not wrong for such conglomerates to go to hell if they are transported but there is a problem if the country is exposed in these financial institutions excessively. On the home work body, the Committee on Finance, we have heard that the country is exposed in these two systems — the country, state-owned enterprises, municipalities, institutions — over €650 million. This is a third of the balance sheet total of both banks. And the Honourable Governor, in which state-owned system bank in the Republic of Slovenia is the country as much exposed as in these two private banks, which have only a weak 4% market share? I am convinced that the country in these two banks has been over-average, disproportionately exposed and has in some way financed these operations that I have been talking about. It protected the liquidity of these banks, since these banks should have failed significantly earlier if the State or the State of the connected persons viewed their assets as a good host and pulled them out of these unscrupulous transactions. But no! The country insisted on these banks — municipalities and so on — because they were also somewhat speculative because of higher interest rates. I think your predecessor has taken 62 ineffective measures that ultimately resulted in this mantra that we are talking about today. If the regulatory authority had acted more decisively, in time in this banking system and in this particular case, these sad consequences for Slovenian taxpayers would probably not have been discussed today. Your Honor, I'm interested in how you comment, and why do you think there's been such a high exposure to the state and to the state of the connected persons in these specific banks? Why, for example, were the congregations and others not saving in banks that offer only slightly more security, not least because of state ownership and because they have and bear some systemic importance? I'm most concerned, Your Honor, that the stress tests in these two banks will not be complete. This means that we will never be aware of the causes, the liability of bad claims, and not least the consequences that will be borne by those responsible. I am sure that, through the completion of the stress tests, we would pour more pure wine on the Slovenian public than will this with controlled liquidation on the basis of the liquidation plan. I therefore believe that this manoeuvre of rapid liquidation or liquidation at this time is not only due to the reduction of liquidity, it could have been a mere cause, but the real cause is to cover up the events that have taken place in the past and which are filled with the balance sheets of these banks. It is also interesting how liquidity has only deteriorated in a few weeks, when the country with EUR 300 million deposits, as we have heard, and EUR 650 million of other exposures, probably in bonds and similar forms – took so long, and then in a few days, liquidation itself took place. It is very difficult to resist, especially because already in April the audit opinion has shown that these are banks, companies that can no longer operate normally without some extreme changes and contributions. Dear Governor, with these liquidations, there is a bitter taste in the fact that this process, due to the failure to complete the stress tests, wants to cover up something and more, that the country is consciously aware of the exposure of the deposits in these banks, has kept these banks in possession of assets and thus has allowed even a handful of risky transactions that have now proved to be bad investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Here you go, Governor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u86	In 2009, the exposure of the State to both banks was more or less unchanged. In view of the fact that the banks are smaller, this exposure was higher than you correctly found than in other banks. In any other bank, the country is not exposed in the same amount as in these two banks. However, since 2009, the direct deposits of the countries in both banks have been more or less for both banks totalling EUR 300 million. The answer to the second question is why we did not wait until the end of the stress tests. Because we'd go to the bank first. If we did not react by means of a controlled liquidation procedure launched on 6 September, one of these banks would have to declare bankruptcy on Monday. Once again, the tests would probably show only greater burdens or higher capital requirements in all other banks. For this reason, in our view, it is right and even useful that these two banks are not in the burden tests. With regard to liability, I reiterate that it does not matter at all how these two banks would be closed, either by bankruptcy or by means of controlled liquidation. The responsibility for the offences shall be assessed and prosecuted by the competent authorities, the law enforcement authorities. From this point of view, the Bank of Slovenia will definitely cooperate with all the announcements and all the conclusions on the crimes in these banks. There's something else I need to point out. The report on banks and the guidelines of the European Commission were mentioned. The Central Bank needs to protect the savers, and the key thing is to protect these savers. At the same time, these savers are also taxpayers. No matter what, I don't feel very comfortable getting two banks out of the banking system. And I'm not comfortable with the fact that these two banks have so many rumors and so many different speculations. However, I assure you that the Bank of Slovenia will work with all law enforcement authorities in a manner that will clarify the issues that are being raised at this meeting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin, behind him, Mr. Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished guests! I'll try to give you some added value. Minister Uroš Čufer stated: "We have decided what is the lesser evil, bankruptcy or liquidation, where the lower costs are." And he said that the lower costs of the controlled liquidation were. See, the state in which we are is the result of such work – there are no calculations, no evidence, no simulations. Any citizen who goes for credit must fill in the credit line, prove his creditworthiness if he takes a slightly larger credit, must give a guarantee. Where are the guarantees? Where are the calculations? People who are in important and responsible places, the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Minister of Finance, come to Parliament without calculation, without evidence. And once again, what kind of country do we live in to talk about 400 million? I am pleased to tell citizens and citizens that they will be even healthier because they will be even higher taxes and will be even more hungry, so they will be even more dry because obesity is harmful and dryness has a good effect on health. That 400 million will go into higher taxes. We'll have lower wages and so on. Even those state employees here, you know. These are all wrong decisions based on "me." Look, I quote, "We can't afford any slips." He said the Minister of Finance. Who's vouching? Him? Did he sign his personal menu? What kind of guarantee did he give? When I made the wrong decisions in my company, the company was worth 4 million at the valuation of the Maribor Credit Bank in 2008. It's not worth anything today because he's in bankruptcy. I lost my company's assets and my own assets. Look what you're doing, Secretary of State! It's nice, you come out of college, you make a master's degree, and then you clear and bluff. I went on purpose to study the career path of the governor, the minister of finance and you who are here now. Typical career path of a state bureaucrat. And the vice governor's pointing his finger at the previous governors. But he was a vice-governor when this bank thought you should be in control. What country do we live in, my dear? But you know I'm glad it's boiling slowly because we're going to hang 400 million people on their not savings account, but on their debt account because they can't pay it either. We'll go back to America for money, maybe Brussels or anywhere else, and we'll pay high interest on these interest rates, and we'll raise taxes, direct and indirect. So far, we have done almost nothing else, in two years almost what we have done in Parliament, but raised indirect and direct taxes; judicial fees, tolls, vignettes, VAT. People, my dear, are we normal? I'm reading to you what Mr. Ptuj wrote. I'll text you, but don't tell me I'm rude. The Governor of the Bank said: "The blame is not on Banka Slovenije, but on inadequate legislation." To us! This is what I always say that Parliament is the source of everything. We pass the right laws, but 70% of the system is wrong. It is not a problem in the media, we have institutions that do not work and 70% of the people in these institutions are in the clan. We are a clan state and the country is not ruled by the mafia, but the mafia is the country itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I have been informed that Mr Aloyzi Potočnik is next, then Mr Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. The event that took place was, in fact, a surprise. After everything I've heard in the last few days, I've read to a great extent that the Bank of Slovenia and the Government have made good moves, if I say so in chess. I mean, especially given the situation, given the limited time, the circumstances, the facts, the possibilities. As a result, in these days I am here and there among the individual strange things that occur at various meetings and in the towers, I am astounding, and I have to stress this in particular – I understand the debates and demands on explaining the causes of the banking crisis and the other issues, including the one and especially the one, the responsibilities, because with it it it is assessing what is good and what is wrong. However, less than a year ago, the National Assembly adopted a law that provided for precisely this situation and the situation in which action is to be taken. I am referring to the Act on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability. Perhaps the authors of this law, with the few exceptions I apologize to them, are today those who have obvious problems with the 20th, 24th and 25th Articles of the Law and the Regulation implementing these measures. As Ambassador Horvath would say, marriage is good and meaningful if we can implement it, if it is feasible and has any benefit from it. From the institutions that I believe are relatively good at this moment and in this disaster, to the citizens – some today you call them only taxpayers all the time. This is a stenosis that is sometimes unnecessary. So, the story is fictional, and any similarity with real events and persons is just random. I'm sitting with two acquaintances. They found out, while they were being relaxed, that they were a committee or a client, whatever you want, the same banks, one of the ones they're talking about today. At this bank, they went to different people and different windows. He was the first to rent loans, invest in real estate years ago, which you already understand. Years ago – a break, but somehow he anticipated some events and put the company in bankruptcy early. Don't talk too much, but it looks like his debt didn't overwhelm him, and I'm guessing he took it well. Another also bought bonds three years ago through an intermediary in the same bank. "Economicly and safely invested money," he was told. By Friday, when he looks at the prospectus three years ago and owns subordinate bonds and asks what is capital one. Same bank, very different deals and two very different fates. At the same table at that moment, you sit fear and courage. Completely wrong as at the beginning of this process three years ago. Among them is only a bank as a sort of binder, but only one of them wonders what actually went wrong. And today we are also here in presentations and debates to answer a lot, and I must say that the explanations are very correct and such that the public can also understand them. What is the difference, what is new, and especially now I am reminding you, is that today we are discussing measures for a long time. We are discussing measures. It started, and I think we should find out together that this is a good thing. I also trust people who stand at this very beginning. They've started. But there have been opportunities before, I agree, but this belongs to another area, to a self-questioning area. We're essentially asking ourselves some of the questions that are opening up here today. Many of us have been sitting here for a long time and many times behind the speakers is heard when political credibility is supported by how many years someone is in this House. There's something else about socialization. That word has really come true lately. Today, this debate is interpreted very poorly. This is probably the expression in the Banking Communication, and I quote: "... which defines financial stability as a key objective for banks, as a key route to this burden distribution, by the English 'burden share'. "Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Now it's your turn, Mr. Happy Meh, next mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u92	Thank you very much. In fact, it is extremely difficult to answer the question of what kind of country we live in, which our colleague raised earlier, and who is responsible for it. Ladies and gentlemen, we're here. So do we. Every time he sat here, with as much power as he had through the parliamentary group and through the voices we gave here. I am alone for two years, and today I am sorry that I stepped into this boiler, where we are constantly looking for enemies, opponents and those who are guilty and we are not to blame. But I'm responsible for what I've been doing for the past 15 years, and I believe I've tried to do the best I can for what people have chosen me to do in some way. What is the way in this Slovenia – because we know exactly what each of us did and did not do, for every diploma, whether it was made or was plagiarism. We know all this, and we use it all up when it suits us. But here we are those who should adopt such laws that could be effectively monitored and also sanction all those who have done wrong. You know, I don't have news about the liquidation of these two banks either, and the $400 million bailouts are ready. Somehow I had a three- or four-year debate on the State of Slovenia guarantee for Block 6, where the country will receive EUR 50 million from the guarantee. And today, I got the answers that told me how someone should work and I'm going to try to tell you my point. Today, it was said how other countries worked — quickly, effectively, and quietly. How do we work? If we have now begun to work effectively, quickly and silently, that no one has heard what has been happening here, at least in public, no, then what we are doing now is fine. It is so that we may raise the confidence of our citizens and citizens that those responsible work and receive the answers we have set out. I got answers about why the liquidation and why it's not a bankruptcy, and I kind of accept it and I support it. I can also ask if we know that the exposure of 600 million in these two banks, as I have understood today, is so great – a state deposit – why we did not interrupt this lady and gentlemen when we had the opportunity. Why? Why did not the government of John Janša do this in a one-year term if it was clear in April what was wrong here? Why didn't we do it? And if we are now talking about the left Provincial – sorry, left or right Provinence, when we talk about those who do wrong, it is not important. It is important that we all step together, and we are in favour of putting left and right where it belongs — behind bars. Taking away what needs to be done is our job. Not now to say that Rigelnik was here a left foreman. Now let me say that Bavčar was right, that Shroth was right, that Zidard was right, that he was right. We can talk about this, but not in these banks in the same context. Where did we come from with this kind of talk? All those who have done what you say must answer, but not here in this National Assembly. We do not condemn, ladies and gentlemen, we can only lay the foundations on which the judicial authorities, the judiciary, can do what they have to do. And the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen, works. She's working today, too, yesterday. I don't believe it's all from above. I don't believe it. You know, if it was all from above, then it would be order. I don't think it's all from below, because then it would be order. I believe that people are so different and different and that these people are doing it and that we are people too. But we're a legislative body and this legislative body has to do its job. Look, we were talking about responsibility today. There is no President of the Government here to be held accountable for all the government's presidents back since problems have occurred; for Pahor, for Janša and for these six or seven months of this government. This government has actually made its own and has accepted the guarantee of liquidation of these two banks and will be responsible for it. But he cannot be held responsible for what was not done by the government of John Janša and what was not done by the government of Borut Pahor. That is why I think it is so important that each one of these is responsible and is responsible. You know, if someone says we should work in a way that creates trust, then we should. In this context, if I comment or say my opinion on the fact that it is constantly threatened with a threesome, that our MEP is telling us that Slovenia cannot survive without asking for the help of Europe, the troika, then something is very wrong with us. If we do not know how to establish such confidence and unity that we can decide for ourselves how to get the most cost-effective recovery of everything we have done in the past years, then no one – not above, not below – can really help us, so we need at least three and I am determined against these three. Now is the time, at this point in time, to push political will towards condemning everyone who has done anything wrong and to put in place such legislation that will enable the judicial authorities to act effectively and also sanction. So let us shrink our species and live in a country where we will continue to be proud. We don't really have another country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Shirtzelj as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u94	Thank you very much. With regard to this debate and responsibility, I even agree with my colleague Meh on something, as he said, that we are not the ones who condemn. That's actually true. But then, in the same speech at the end, he said that it was necessary to condemn everyone who had done the wrong thing. This is where he came in conflict. First he said no, then yes, whatever. I agree, however, that we are a legislative body and that such legislation must be adopted in order to be as effective as possible both in the area of finance and in all other areas. Also, there is no threat to anyone or anything that some people keep reminding of and so forth – I think we must be aware in the European Union that we have decided decisively on the EU accession referendum and that there are certain criteria, some rules apply, and what public finances the State must actually have, both in the fiscal system, both in the banking system and elsewhere. After all, this government has made a commitment to the European Union, and this government has also made a commitment to take new measures for what and how to do and to remedy the banking system and to make the fiscal system so that it will be within the criteria set by the European Union when we are talking about a deficit of 3% and so on. And if we're talking about a left-wing Provincial, we're just talking and there's nothing wrong with it. If we're talking about right-wing provenance, there's nothing wrong with it. After all, all humans unite, all humans form certain societies. I have read, Mr Meh, that you are a founding member of Forum 21 of 2004. I don't see anything wrong with that. Forum 21 had some connections and had economic, economic and similar matters. I may have competed in some sport society, and that is why I am a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party and perhaps some other society, and I have been a secretary of state – nothing like that. But something is true, and this is about the sociological question of who led the either and how long in the last 50 years. Left or right? Depending on where a party is classified, where the Communist Party has been classified, in a year or on the right. We can talk about it again here. After all, there is nothing wrong with it, but it is known that if certain provinces start to deal with the economy, with finances, if they benefit from their networks, if they benefit from their connections, if they also benefit from a more favourable credit or credit, which is not guaranteed, then a problem arises. And that's what we're talking about. This is what we are talking about when we talk about responsibility and the owners of these two banks. You can look at the owners of the banks on the Internet and see them and add them to some provenance. It's perfectly clear to me. But I agree with the last thing you said, but we're not who we're going to judge. We need to note the irregularities, including the connections, even the fact that many things have happened under the table and are not transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Were you misunderstood? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u96	You know, I'm really sorry, but I've never been a member of Forum 21 and I've never been on a monitoring committee or a world, and I've never been in the control board of the Italian Power Plant, as it was said, or Holding the Slovenian Power Plant. Never. So it would be absolutely right to talk like that. But it could have been some kind of Meh. [[...]] Luckily, it's a good last name, and that's what I'm wearing. Second of all, the government is spoken for, and the government is spoken for. The government of Janez Janša was also our government – we are talking about our government, led by Alenka Bratušek. And when I was talking about the conviction, I certainly didn't think we had the right to judge anyone. We can judge him and say he's left and right. But we have no right to judge him. He needs to be judged by the judiciary, and that's what I said. Justice — they are the ones who must do it. That's why I think that's the right thing to do. About these 50 years, Mr Shircelj – this is under the belt. I'm not talking about that. We were probably in the same party then, and we were actually at the head of John Janša. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the topic we're talking about today. Today we are talking about telling people that the National Assembly is discussing important issues of the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks and the stability of the Slovenian state. If that's what we're talking about, then let's stay on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Shirtzelj as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u98	Mr Happy Meh, if you weren't a founding member of Forum 21, I believe you. It just says the name Lucky Meh on the Internet and, of course, there's that data.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, after him mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u100	Thank you. When words are very high in this Chamber, they usually hide very low interest, and I fear that this is no different today. Earlier, a respected colleague in the coalition said that they were guided by fear and courage in these decisions. This may be his view, but I'm afraid greed and unconsciousness were among them. And there is a word about this greed and unconsciousness today. You will have read at least the documentation that is available and which has already been published in the newspapers, it is the conduct of people who, at a time when a company that owns these two, for whom taxpayers now take responsibility, have made 22 million euros in losses and at the same time paid 30 million euros in dividends. This is a classic model of the robbery of one company. In doing so, all control institutions, from the Bank of Slovenia, have clearly been cancelled because this is related to the ownership of the bank, to all others who have control over such work within the economic system of the Republic of Slovenia. The argument that this is a private company is simply not acceptable at the moment when the bill for doing this is issued to taxpayers. That's when you have to look at the real picture, and that's why the rhetorical trick of a respected colleague from the coalition that went to that Russian joke "spray through the collective". They're all responsible. No, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, I would read one paragraph of Stanislav Kovac: "Since 1990, when totalitarian SFRJ broke down and a new Slovenian state was emerging, both brutal media censorships as we witnessed the collapse of Probank and Factor Bank and the erasing of traces leading to Kučan's network from Forum 21 and bankruptcy in the national interest have never been in the time of the new state. In the end, the government of Bratuška and Banka Slovenije issued an account for this big piggy to taxpayers." So the commentator. In this case, when some of you have spoken, we are guilty of adopting laws, all laws exist that control institutions react to what I have just described and no one has moved. And no one will convince me that in this case the Bank of Slovenia did not come to the government with this proposal, but the government immediately accepted it to cover the fact that in the past it did not properly manage its control tasks and therefore knows exactly who is responsible. But the government, which then lit it up and put it in the pockets of taxpayers, is responsible for this part, and so are all those who advocate it. Because it's a very interesting logic from what the finance ministry said about these two banks. So it's a private bank linked to Forum 21 with a very interesting business, which I've already described when gentlemen are paying 30 million euros in dividends to own a company that has a 20 million loss. In these cases, ladies and gentlemen, there is one logic. When it comes to everyone else, it'll be the other. And it's private banks. And there's one more thing. The matter may not have been so much in the eyes if they did not accept responsibility, collective responsibility, that is to say, reach into the pockets of taxpayers even the maximum guaranteed by the State, which is 100,000 euros, guaranteed by the State of Slovenia for all deposits. And here's the interesting question. I would very much like to see now all those strong protestors who protested and shouted against Europe and the cruel capitalism it exploits in Europe and similar nonsense that we have listened to even in the spring. Where are they now? In the opinion of Stanislav Kovac, if I quote again: "... we should be in front of Kucan's house in Ljubljana's Murglas, Mencinger's Institute in the centre of Ljubljana, in front of the villa of tycoon Herman Rigelnik and before the villas of other tycoons led by Pajenkov and Glaser." Well, as far as I know, there's no protest there today. In fact, if they were talking about cruel capitalism at the time – what you have accepted, that the taxpayers' pockets also take responsibility for those deposits that the state does not guarantee at all, is more cruel capitalism than what Europe recommends. Because it is in Europe's recommendations to guarantee up to 100,000 euros, this is a European standard. What is more, your decision is for the benefit of those who are the richest, for in this case it is obvious. The vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes only dream of having deposits over 100,000 euros. I hope we all agree. If such solidarity is to be pursued once, we need to know what the consequences will be. Obviously, with the sole purpose of concealing responsibility for the Bank of Slovenia's past irresponsibility, supervisory institutions and all those who should do their work, they are not and are the only ones who could – ladies and gentlemen, those who speak of past governments and so on, you should know that the supervision of banks can only be exercised by Banka Slovenije, so that the government cannot be directly involved. We could already know that this is even a European standard. Of course, it is very interesting that a new government will then appear, which will jointly share responsibility for the Bank of Slovenia's previous irresponsibility, all those who owned these two banks and all the control institutions that have not done their work by reaching into the pockets of taxpayers. But do you know what the final effect is going to be? The final effect of this will be that already overloaded entrepreneurship will pay even higher taxes, with which you are already overloading them and charging them with new and new,from some absurd vignettes to the projected loads on buildings and real estate and so on, which is why they stop investments. The example of Akrapovic, who has already given up the investment that would open up 100 jobs in the White Krajina, which he so bloodyly needs, is only because of your policy and excessive burden on the economy, which in the final stage means fewer jobs, even less money, and in the end, because of your failed policy, because of your concealment, this kind of bad work, irresponsibility, maybe even crime, we will all live worse together.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Here you are, Secretary of State, Mr. Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u102	Thank you very much. If I may have just one brief explanation, we would not go too far into the 100 000-euro deposit story. For the vast majority of those deposits over EUR 400 million in these banks, this is not about applications that would be more than EUR 100 000, but are primarily about the roles of companies that are not entitled to payment under the guarantee scheme. Thus, EUR 231 million, which are more than 400 million guaranteed deposits, belongs to companies. There are also some deposits that are over €100,000, definitely there is no need to hide this, but a large majority of these belong to companies and would have been left without deposits in the event of bankruptcy of the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin, then Mr. Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u104	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! For a long time, for many years we have been working on how and how to repair the Slovenian banking system. We've been exposing three of the biggest state banks all along, but it started at the end. We started with two small private banks, the owners of which are the wealthy Slovenians, who made their way through the transition period. The two banks financed a wide variety of acquisitions and also granted loans without proper coverage during the period of the merger. In times of crisis, they suddenly have liquidity problems and are capital-inadequate. In some way, the resolution, recovery or liquidation of these two banks gives a bitter taste of the rescue, on behalf of stability, of all those who managed these banks irresponsibly, of the irresponsible owners of banks, and of all of us paying for it. This must be a bitter taste we can't get rid of. Today, the governor said that bankruptcy or liquidation, both cases, would be paid by taxpayers. But it is up to us in Parliament to ask which of these two things would be cheaper for the state and for taxpayers. I think for the country and taxpayers, bankruptcy would be cheaper than a controlled liquidation. Today we have also heard information that the vast majority of savers in these two banks have less than 100,000 euros, on average, as the Governor said, somewhere around 11,000. I wonder who we are now providing stability to, but if the vast majority of people would somehow fall into that quota when the country guarantees them up to 100,000 euros. Who? Or were those who had more than 100,000 euros and likely knew what would happen and withdrew their money to another bank? I don't want to speculate. The Secretary of State said earlier that the vast majority of deposits over €100,000 are represented by companies that are not guaranteed by the state for these €100,000. True, but is it not quite a few companies that owned these banks and at the same time the committee of this bank? Then one wonders if, at some point, the owners of these banks have decided that these banks will no longer worry about investing in the capital adequacy of these banks, why would the state and all of them save these companies if they initially behaved irresponsibly to their own banks and to all the people in these banks. What message do we give today? The message goes in this direction somehow: if you make a project that you are going to do, then in the end the country will take care of your problems. For what irresponsible businessmen this is certainly a good message, and for all those ordinary citizens who have less than 100,000 euros, a very bad message. The human saying says that the punishment must be brought up, in which case the punishment will not be. Some say that this is good for the stability of the banking system, but I think it would be necessary to prevent any similar excesses in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Chehovin, then Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Today we have heard a number of things that do not have a direct connection with the agenda, or professional, non-professional or purely political. I would rather stick to the agenda proposed at this meeting. And first of all, I have to say and demarcate those who say it's about the rehabilitation of private banks. All banks have banks, either privately or stately, being rehabilitated. The creation of the so-called bad bank itself is a sui generis act that socialises accepted loans. We all know that. England has given 15% of GDP for the rehabilitation of the banking system, exclusively private, Austria 11, Germany 14, we once put 2% for recovery. It is better not to give anything, of course we would not be satisfied. Another non-truth that has arisen that owners will not bear the burden of liquidation. It just doesn't hold. Since these are state aids, there are rules adopted by the European Union under which the owners bear the burden first, then the owners of subordinated securities are in turn the value of subordinated securities, this capital is considered, as has already been said, capital of 1 bank, and only then are taxpayers. The fact is, therefore, that the owners will be out of work here, and the owners of subordinated securities will also have to take over the risk of ownership, and only in the end are the taxpayers who take over the burden of liquidation. Why is this liquidation bad for taxpayers but still better than bankruptcy? Because it's gradual because it doesn't happen hypnotically and it doesn't burden you like the bankruptcy of taxpayer money over the current year, but it does happen over the next few years and it's also possible to program. But it is more likely to be cheaper. With regard to the banks themselves that have experienced this measure, I would say that it was a time-consuming time, because one bank would probably go bankrupt within one week and it would be a complete surprise in the banking market and the other probably within one and a half months. I think it would be more wrong if Banka Slovenije did not submit a proposal to the government on what happened. This would be wrong and then we could justifiably jump and discuss here why they left action. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, this governor took up his work on 17 July, with the great support of the applicants. What does it mean that he lost your trust at that time? Wasn't your decision the right one? Then, isn't your thinking right now? In short, in the first serious measure that both the bank and the government have begun to take, we are attacking them. We ask whether it is right or wrong, by not explaining whether bankruptcy would be better than this controlled liquidation. No one can guarantee that. After the battle, every general, as well as any lower rank of officer, is smart. But the fact is that this measure has happened that we have received adequate explanations that the Governor is ready to give this explanation, in my opinion, given that all the governors are a little conservative, even too. It's no problem we don't have an accomplice. The problem is, we haven't had one in the past. Why didn't we have one? But you will know this by those who were pressing the buttons of the then governor's then five, six years ago, who claimed to the end that there were no problems with liquidity or solvency. Maybe that's what happened! As I am aware, from 2010 onwards all the Heads of Government have been alerted to the problem of these two banks. And what happened? Nothing happened. Banks were working on models that we had a chance to hear today. If you ask me, it is truly a worldwide unique thing to have in the model of bank management, bank establishment, some hybrid amphibians or even amphibians. So you're the owner and the depositor and the borrower. This can only be possible in Slovenia. But who is the one who let this happen? Who's the one who let this happen all these years? I mean, now we're surprised. By the way, today, if these banks were actually some kind of bank fortress, we heard, left-wing political bandits, something like that. But do we even know who made the biggest bank hole in Slovenia in this banking system? Bell 1, Bell 2 owned by whose property? [[...]] Whose own is it, I ask? Only this hole is bigger than the next five holes. Just you, just one. This means that what you're trying to say today is a problem of left-wing provenance is not true. Everyone's happy or they're still filling their pockets from these banks. Last but not least, the question of why I am asking the late Andre Bajuk as finance minister – for the third time in this House – has not allowed me to enforce the guarantee law, which prohibits the use of the so-called shares that you are buying. Why did this law not come into force? 1. 2007, like Andrej Bajuk made? Why was he only accepted 1. 1. 2008? And if we are looking at the structure of bank loans today, 70% of all tycoon stories happened that year. 70%! I hope that the Commission of Inquiry – by the way, this is its task, and I am giving her all the support. We want Mr Pogačnik, with his commission, to get results as soon as possible and to report here to Parliament as well. However, it is not Parliament's task to own a charter and a credit agreement and to speak about it today in the National Assembly. It's someone else's job. Next question. About why banks weren't allowed to run these stress tests to the end. Because we would have gone bankrupt earlier — that's what the governor said. However, there is no condition for the liquidation of banks to cover their responsibilities. On the contrary, we call on all the factors, including the emergency administrations of both banks, to detect possible illegalities and to sanction them appropriately by reporting to the law enforcement authority. Here I think it must be a real message from this Parliament, but not now, because someone does not fit this system, we ask why the bank has proposed this proposal to the Government. Thank God that this generation of younger people, from 45 years on, has finally taken action not to be afraid to act! We must support this in this House, this is our task. I have no brakes, I am not a member of any forum, nor of the Republican Assembly, nor of any supervisory board of banks, nor of state-owned companies, but I am well aware that some companies, which are also partly state-owned, already have their deposits abroad. If we set this on fire, if I use this term in Parliament, it will increase, and we will in fact threaten liquidity and consequently solvency of the other banks. At the moment, Slovenian citizens still trust our banks and also trust monetary authorities because they guarantee their roles. And today, when we're talking about this voyeur temptation to see who has those 100 thousand forward deposits, the governor said very well that it's mostly about economic societies. These are the main depositors. Second, all governments so far have deposited deposits, including some municipalities, in order to ensure liquidity and solvency. This means that this measure was intended to protect, in particular, a process which, as such, must take place in these banks in an appropriate manner. What does that mean? That the bank's business would go smoothly. It is important that all ordinary creditors and creditors of the bank, regardless of the status of the person, be paid either physically or legally and their deposits are safe regardless of the level of the individual deposit and will be paid in full at the time of maturity, as the banks will operate until all transactions are completed. The parties will continue to be able to operate smoothly, including through bank cards, payment transactions and other banking services. Companies, in particular independent entrepreneurs, who are ordinary creditors of the bank, will also have the funds of the bank at their disposal, while hybrid and other subordinate debt instruments that have the same characteristics as ownership will, unfortunately, participate in burden-sharing. By dividing the burden between shareholders and subordinated creditors, State aid is limited to the least necessary and the necessary expenditure from the State budget is reduced. Credit contracts that have been concluded remain in force, and lenders must repay their debt until their maturity. However, they will not have to pay their debts prematurely. The cost of liquidation will be borne primarily by the owners of both banks, i.e. shareholders, then holders of subordinate financial instruments and the rest of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the normal order. And I know that most of those who are discussing today know, including Mr Shirtzl as a proposaler. The question is whether we want banks in bankruptcy or not, but this is a matter of one political option that has said so today. This is the position of the SDS which claims to be a better bankruptcy. On the contrary, we say that this procedure, chosen by the Government on a proposal from the Bank of Slovenia, is better and more appropriate and does not cause panic, gives some hope for the already established credibility of banks and provides a solid basis for the rehabilitation of banks. And one more thing. You know, Mr Šircelj also knows well that, for some claims or certain matters have not been transferred to a bad bank, it is not the government or the financial ministry that is to blame, but the European Union's requirement that we should have previously corrected these stressful tests because they rightly do not believe that we are giving them the right information or at least that we have given them the right information in the past. That's the reason. And given that they have set up this mechanism of action in Europe, which will raise about 60 billion, it would probably be crazy not to use this mechanism in the future without further burdening our taxpayers. We should talk about this and say again, these transmissions will take place after these stresses, and then it would also be a task for us to call and ask the governor to report to us how these stress tests have gone, what is the amount of so-called bad claims and how it will proceed. This, of course, is Parliament's task, not to talk today about whether bankruptcy would be better than doubting the Bank of Slovenia, which is an independent institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u107	I would first give Mr Grimes a chance to replicate and then Mr Shircel as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr Čehovin, but I must warn you that this is the way we avoid the stress test for these two banks and that is why the situation and all the business and all the stories related to these two banks will never be transparent. This is quite contrary to what you've been saying and in line with what I've been stressing myself. However, I would be very interested in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as to how the method of rehabilitation of these two banks will be chosen, to read their passage into the pockets of taxpayers, to improve our position on the scale of world economic freedom where, as you probably know, we unfortunately found ourselves under this government along with the Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe and Chad, somewhere completely on the tail of the scale, far behind all other European countries. And I would really be interested in the government's opinion on how this will improve our position?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel, please. But there's no replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u110	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u111	You'll have to make a point of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u112	Please warn those who have a replica to stick to the darkness. Because I wasn't talking about the Congo or Zimbabwe or anything there.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Čehovin says it is not appropriate or it is wrong to talk here today about banking and these banks. I think, Mr Čehovin, that it is not only an assignment, but a basic duty of a Member to talk about it and to inform citizens and citizens about it, after all, they have elected him. And citizens and citizens must have information about what was going on. Perhaps sometimes it is not enough that only the public contact services provide this information, which is of course very targeted, that certain media are used, that certain interlocutors are also used, which at some point must praise a certain measure where there can be no doubt. The problem is doubt. Throughout history, we can talk about doubt, but I mean, I doubt it, and that's also allowed. With regard to any action taken by the Government made by Banka Slovenije, he can be questioned because he can be better. That's the first question. That's another thing. I believe that the law on a company to manage bank claims or to act, that banking law, and so on, when we talk about the collapse of banks, does not have a lot of good solutions. And I agree with those who say that two are bad solutions and one that is better. But which one could be worse? And who is not worse, and for whom is worse, and for whom is worse in the first moment, and for whom is worse in the long run? For whether this decision was right or right will be made, of course, we will see. The Governor, who gives us the right answers to our questions, also mentioned that bankruptcy can occur throughout the whole process and that this procedure is, of course, quite demanding. The question is also what will be cheaper and for whom will it be cheaper. For once, we pay everything for citizens and citizens. We pay for all the errors of the banking system, we pay for all the wrong decisions, we pay for all the unsupervised credits, we pay for all the credits that do not have the right guarantees, and we do it for once, and once again, the responsibility of those who have actually done something on the basis of such or other information, such and other relationships or non-relationships is minimised here. And that's probably not good. This is not good for the whole society, not just for this part or just for the banking part. Now that we're talking about the governor, we're not talking about the governor's responsibility. At first, I said that the Governing Council and the Board of Governors were vice-governors, vice-governors and so on. You can see on the Internet who these people are and they make these decisions. Before June 17th, some other people were taking over, and Mr Jazbec was not in the world of governors, and that was the responsibility of those decisions, of course, to them. However, Mr Jazbec is performing here as a representative of this institution, and I think there is nothing to say about personal questions that should be said here that he is now being blamed for anything. The second is the question of connections and also connections, political connections and networks – how this happened. I believe it's very bad if politicians become gangsters. But it's disastrous for gangsters to become politicians. That's a lot worse, and we should think about it. What will happen and what will happen to this long-term banking system and what will happen after the so-called stress tests is a very big question. These burden tests and the re-analysis of the acts of Slovenian banks are due to the implausibility of the data sent to Europe by the Bank of Slovenia, which was sent to Europe by the Bank of Slovenia – I am talking about the past time before June 17 – and which was sent to Europe by the Slovenian Government or by the bankers in particular. That is why they do not believe this, and that is why Europe is stopping the process, which means automatically higher costs, which means automatic more tax money. And the European mechanism, if we are talking about a European resolution mechanism, gives Member States the opportunity to resolve financial problems in an appropriate way. Not according to market criteria, but according to the criteria applicable to loans, for lower interest rates on condition that you do certain things that Europe already prescribs. Today we have a European Semester and all budgets must be reviewed in Brussels. We were in the European Semester in Brussels even once. We cannot exclude Europe here, and we cannot put Europe here in a position that is simply an enemy now, and that the troika is an enemy. It's not. If we are not good enough, then it comes to reaching out to Europe for the stability of the monetary union. There's nothing here. So it seems absolutely important and necessary to talk about it, and also to talk about it, because we have a specific feature in Slovenia, namely that if we take the SID bank, we have more than 60% of the banks that are state-owned. I'm a little worried when these banks get in a similar position or if they get in a similar position or just one of them. But to talk today about private banks and the responsibility of private banks and supervisory councils, this is because they will pay something – 120 million has also been said and so on – these private owners. But the cost of this rehabilitation will be much higher. If we cannot say whether it is more in the context of bankruptcy, because in my opinion it will be cheaper, if we cannot say whether it is more costly bankruptcy or liquidation, then we can certainly say that their assets are not sufficient to cover the entire rehabilitation project of these two banks. It was found that the Bank of Slovenia found that these banks were inequitable, that these banks were no longer able to operate, which means, for the first time, that they did not have capital, which is also found, and for the second time, that they did not have money. If they don't have it, it means someone took the money out of it. The money was also collected in the form of dividends, recently. And that's wrong. And that's morally depraved, if not otherwise, if we don't have legislation. It should be noted, however, that legislation is changing as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Mavko wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Only briefly, because there was a direct question as to the government's opinion, where we are moving through such a measure on the economic freedom index. Very simple. As has already been explained today, this is a measure which is completely normal in Europe. Banks that are bad banks that do not have a long-term viability on the market can normally be carried out in liquidation and liquidation procedures in an organised manner, including through State aid. A number of countries in Europe have done something similar; Denmark has put five banks in liquidation, Germany one bank, Finland one bank in the last three years, the Netherlands, Spain, Britain two banks, all with State aid. If it is possible here to suggest that we move to Zimbabwe or the Congo through such a measure, we may at least be in good company with other countries with such a measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Chekovin, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u118	Thank you. Very briefly. Mr. Shirtzle and I don't understand just one thing. In fact, I claim or support the position taken by the bank’s governor when he said that the bankruptcy of Probanke and Factor Bank would jeopardize the entire banking system. While Mr Shircelj allows for the possibility of bankruptcy to be better than this controlled liquidation. Otherwise, according to the content that we understand each other, as well as the European mechanisms and so on, things are clear to me and would be crazy if we didn't know how to use them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u119	If I understand correctly, Mr. Shircelj, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u120	Yes, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u121	Here you go. As a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u122	You know, the idea of saying bankruptcy automatically, and this was said on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, means panic – such an argument is in fact without evidence, because any measure can cause panic. And to eliminate one measure, this is bankruptcy, as an opportunity to save the Slovenian banking system, is also wrong and not right and is bad, because we will be able to get into a situation when this happens and then it will be automatically bad. And that's why there's doubt, and that's why there's two bad solutions, one more bad solutions or encouragement than the other. Once again, if we have decided on the so-called non-system bank de jure, these two small banks, we have actually decided on a system that will apply to the other banks. If it applies to the other banks, it doesn't work out, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Jakob Preseknik. Get ready, Dr. Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Governor, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Earlier, Mr Chehovin had said that the governor was conservative, that he was a bit conservative. Of course I support that, and that's right. I do not imagine the governor, who is not conservative – I hope he will confirm this to me – but I am afraid that any of the other governors was too conservative not to say what he was like, but certainly too conservative, and that is why we are in the situation we are in, and we are saving these two banks only at this time in 2013, which would certainly be necessary earlier. As our representative has already said in his opinion and a colleague who has discussed, we support the proposed actions of the Bank of Slovenia and what the Government has further adopted. Of course, this is where we place a comma, not a dot, so, at the governor's announcement, that other authorities will follow the trail of suspicious transactions that have been made possible by the cross-sectional interconnection of administrations, supervisory councils, related ties, collegiate ties and so on in these banks, and I fear that there may be another one. I also wonder, as of course many others, where the regulator was until this summer, i.e. the Bank of Slovenia, where it has been in previous years. From our parliamentary group, several written and oral calls have already been made today in the National Assembly for the responsibility of the former Governor and the organs of the Bank of Slovenia and for calls for action by the Bank of Slovenia. The fact is, in professional circles, it wasn't just rustling. All those who have any word in banking in Slovenia knew how critical the situation is in Factor Bank and Probank a few years ago, except perhaps those who should know, it is in Banka Slovenije. Since I no longer have much time, I repeat that in the SLS Group and myself, I personally agree that controlled liquidation is a better solution than uncontrolled bankruptcy, because after all I do not know whether we can afford any tax panic, domino effect or anything like that in the coalition and the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u125	Thank you, too. I give my word to Dr. Ljubica Jelusic. Get Mr. Joseph Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I find that today's extraordinary meeting has several very important and good qualities. We had the opportunity to listen to the precise and very clear answers of the esteemed Governor Dr. Jazbec. And also the Minister of Finance, Dr. Chufer, and the Secretary of State. They have contributed to the fact that our behaviour on the content of the measure as of 6 September 2013 is now significantly greater. Of course, the question is whether we want to listen to your answers and whether we want to understand them properly in the context in which you gave them to us, especially because you have answered several times to some of the dilemmas put here. For example, the governor said twice that owners also bear the burden of loss, and some debaters still argue and wonder why owners do not bear the burden of loss. I think you've also said twice that in these two banks stress tests will not be carried out because they will not have a future because these stress tests work for banks that are counted on to have another role in our monetary system. For the banks that are going into liquidation, that's not gonna happen. And it is also clear that stress tests are not substantively prosecution tests, but are financial instruments to verify the ability of banks, the involvement of their assets and their ability to exist on the market in the future. It is said that for prosecution, which some would like to demonstrate in order to be stressed, it will be necessary to use some other instruments available in this country, and I hope that in the process of controlled liquidation you will actually reach data that will enable prosecution, because this is in the interest of all of us. We all want to know and see that those responsible for the situation in these two banks that we are talking about today are responsible in an appropriate manner, if necessary through the criminal procedure system. You also explained to us that the system used for these two banks from ten Slovenian banks is unlikely to be useful for other banks and I am glad that because you have told us in fact that the remaining eight, we hope that it will not go into liquidation. And those who keep asking and talking about this and asking questions about whether the other banks will go to Slovenia in the same process, you're essentially suggesting that the other eight go to liquidation. I think we should be happy to find that if this first phase of bank recovery has shown that it will survive at least eight banks in this system, then that's a good thing. So, if I understand exactly what you're telling us, these two banks are dealt with by a special procedure because they are the only two in this phase or in such a state that perhaps there is some hope for the others in our banking system. The good part of today's debate is also that we have the opportunity to set up a future period at which we would like both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to explain again the state of the measures taken, as well as the findings of the stress tests. We have written about this future period in the recommendations that this would be within three months. I hope that we will once again have an opportunity in an equally open and simple, understandable way to hear your answers. The good side of this debate is also that we are slowly detecting some loopholes in legislation that do not meet all our expectations, but this means that we are obliged by the legislators, of course with the help of the relevant experts, to supplement or amend legislation, so that it also meets our wishes, such as after the freezing of the property of the owners and so on. The disadvantage of today's session is that the applicants were not prepared enough for this meeting and that now for the sixth hour, some people are repeating the same questions over and over again and you are opening one and the same dilemmas. In fact, you do not accept the answers I spoke about earlier, and the Governor, the Minister and the Secretary of State have made them very clear, very simple and very open. Which means I'm also asking the question, what would you or your government actually do if it lasted until 6 September 2013. Would it be possible for two banks to make a similar finding in order to start dividing banks into those that, by owners and by those who have capital in them, are more left and by those who are more right? And would those who were more left for bankruptcy and others for controlled liquidation, or would they have put on a plate the coming threes? What exactly would you do? What we understand from the discussions or answers of our honored guests today is that the process of controlled liquidation was one of the bad options. This is what the Minister and the Governor said on the very first day that they were not happy to speak about the choice of this procedure, but at the same time – also today – the Governor made it clear that this does not mean that in the future, unless otherwise possible, bankruptcy can occur. The point is that a method of recovery has been chosen, which is gradual. The bankruptcy is no longer a return to controlled liquidation. I understand that in this swift, seemingly unknown decision or well-known decision, they have chosen the one that gives the possibility of remedial action. I would also like to draw attention to our possible overestimation of the European Bank Resolution Mechanism. Since 2014, it will not be so easy to take money to correct its mistakes, as the opinion on whether or not it belongs to us will be given by many other bodies, particularly European bodies, including the European Commission. In short, before we ask for a European mechanism to save banks for assistance, we will also, in many cases, at home, consider whether it is good to turn to the mechanism or whether it is better to find the solutions proposed today by the Governor. I understand your decisions, I support them and, above all, I thank you for the answers and the time you have taken today to explain to us the things you have explained to us many times. Those who misinterpret these difficult banking matters need to be told more than once. I hope that from now on we will not repeat the same questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Jožef Jerovšk, to prepare Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Governor! I am joining those who believe that today's debate is extremely important. Most of the time, my forerunner agreed. She said something positive, and the last thing she said was that they were the same questions. Normal! Because the side that defended the people who robbed the banks, including Probank and Factor Bank, today is even stronger in the media, in propaganda. He protects them and defends them all the time and all the time. We must repeat a million times that people in Slovenia who have robbed Slovenia, who have brought citizens to a beggar drum, who will not be able to teach their children, will not be given jobs. And they're going to be rich at the rich man's table forward and they're going to be buying at a reduced price when they're transferring this money from abroad to our companies. This must be repeated over and over again! People in their kindness and naivety don't understand. You flush them with a few 20 thousand euros and let them crash into it and get them into trouble. But here, where there's billions in the game, there's no. In August, Mr. Rigelnik took 7 million dividends from a bankrupt bank. Isn't that a crime? Seven million! But our people don't know if I'm gonna translate it as 300, 200 new Passat cars. He took it out, taking everything else out. And the others. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why I am critical that we take this to the shoulders of our citizens, that you reduce the minimum wage and that you continue to pay new taxes. In the beginning, Mr Čehovin said that Mrs Bratušek should be congratulated. This is exactly what gladiators had to say – the emperor's rhyme before they went to their death: "Ave, Caesar, the Morituri of this salutant!" Praise you, Prime Minister, the dying welcome you. Will this be your official greeting to the citizens? Look, I have to tell you, I trust the governor because he's a Bistrician because we're both Bistricians. I hope he doesn't fail to be as consistent as I am all the time, even though I've been a politician for a long time. And Mr. Governor said at the outset that whenever they noticed that a crime must be reported within banks, they would do so. I know he got kicked out of a world of banks under his former governor because he probably was in the way of those old clans that went to this oligarchy. Of course, he will also have to report back, and when he does, it will probably take fourteen days for him to write names that have broken against this country. 80 Billion — Do You Know What Money Is? I'm going to mention the third Bistrician, Dr. Vehovar, who said that what happens in banks is a crime. And so far no one has been responsible for this crime. But it will have to be answered and some of the money they stole will have to be brought back. But I have to say here, Comrade Bevk earlier said that the left has had nothing to do with this elite of greed. [[...]] Please! Factor bank, one of the financial directors of another company told me, was Mr. Toplek's home bank, and with Talum's co-ownership, he blocked them with a cross. Mr Toplek was your candidate in the elections, he raised Mr Levanič as the contractor, who is now Secretary of State. This is so intertwined that you do not deny these traces, these tacos — like a snake. These are your people, gentlemen and ladies. Mr Kučan and Stanovnik set up Positive Slovenia to protect this banking banditry as long as possible, to cover it up, to protect it, and now they should welcome: ave, President of the Government. Yeah, so where did we come from? As it was said, inside banking and here at Factor Bank, Probank, about owners and the like, it was incest. And if incest is in human reproduction, it causes degeneration, and our banks are now degenerated, just like it is in genetics. This has to be cut, or we don't get killed by the destruction of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u129	Thank you, too. Excuse me? You want a replica, Mr. Chekovin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u130	Yes, because my colleague Jerovšek used my name, I have a replica. I know that he was preparing for this speech for quite some time, and I also have some Latin river that reads: "Qui bene bibit bene dormit, qui bene dormit non pecat, qui non pecat, exercise and caelum, ergo, qui bene bibit, exercise and caelum."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u131	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Mirko Brulc, to prepare Mr Marjan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u132	After such talks it is difficult to have a discussion, but let me come back a little bit, and I would say that Grims's words, tied to Kučana and Forum 21, have already been dating the season, but no one has any use for it. Yes, your words are that. Look, I was expecting a really professional and also public debate, and a lot of this debate was here in this National Assembly, and I think it's the same. Of course, I welcome the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and the Governor to resolve these two banks, and it is said that it is a control over the cessation of these banks. There is a lot of sobriety, intelligence, and caution that there is no disturbance and that it does not go to the great harm of taxpayers. It is true that in this case there is no need for anyone to feel left-handed, as a colleague from New Slovenia said, either with the United List or with the Social Democrats. The butter on the head is made up of tycoons, speculators, con artists, profiteers, and I don't give a damn which side of the sky they're from. I believe in the law. What's happening is causing a lot of unrest in our society, a lot of people are shaking their pants, lists are long, names are published in newspapers. So there's no more secrecy. I also believe in the media, and it's right, and I expect it to be their turn, that these trials will take place in the courts, and that they will go where they need to go. You know, my problem is that we still don't confiscate illegally acquired property. I've said this a few times before, lawyers say we have legislation, we don't have to accept or change – then let's start with action! And let's take the property and put it in the Treasury. Why did the Croats do it with their left hand, without much discussion? They pick up all the big cars — I read in the newspaper — and give them to the firemen, the Red Cross, and I don't know who they're not standing in the dump somewhere, losing their value, and doing the cost to the state. It's one of those tiny patterns, and if they're smarter, let's get them. Not to mention cashiers and a lot of other things, not to mention land debt. We are now preparing a change of law so that this matter cannot be abused in the future. But we're really slow, always some lobbyists wake up, ruin things and things don't go forward and I don't know which way, whether we're talking about chimneys or anyone. These pollens are huge. Here, however, the government has to strike a table, make a proposal to the National Assembly, and we need to unify ourselves. I've been reading in the papers, a couple of times lately, they want us to get at least a few things together. Today, this subject is such that we can speak in the same way. With small differences, it's no big deal, but obviously our interest is in common; the tycoons have to carry the portion, the poor guy, the committee that has five thousand euros there, has to get that money, the companies that invested, if they weren't speculative things, they have to get it back, and the two banks will shut it down. Thank God we have so many at every corner, and no one controls it anymore. I think the talk of distrust in the banking system is unjustifiable. In our country, anyone who has five minutes of time or has room for a column says that a threesome has to come, that we suck, we're not capable and I don't know what else. Then you look at the situation on the ground, like in Goriška, we have a whole series of positive results and no one will write about it. Even Peterle in Brussels has time to write nonsense about how we depend on Europe, and together we're a big family, it's no big deal if we get hit on the head. They want us to reduce the guaranteed personal income, they want us to give up social rights. This is also Europe, please, because we are not a good sample for all. And we're living with some way of life that I don't want to give up, go to a doctor, and I have this service right now for free and stuff. The content of today's session is indeed such that it should unify us, even after the opening speech of the Governor, who was the first public speaker in the National Assembly, his performance is commendable because he was understandable, concrete, without politics and without word locks, which is important that every citizen can understand why something needs to be done and what the recipe for work is for further action. We probably won't find America anymore today. We can only mess around with who and whose was who. It doesn't matter whose it was. Everyone who's done bad work has to carry a plate, and that's my wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u133	Replica has Mr Grimes first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u134	Thank you. Since I mentioned Forum 21 and the distinguished Mr Kučan, I merely quoted Mr Kovac's article, not my words, but the opinion of one of the most respected commentators in Slovenia, and I am helping you with another paragraph: "Dominant media once again mock the Slovenian public when they censor the basic fact that the two failed banks were a significant stepping stone for the concentration of Kučan's capital, under the cover of a complex national interest, which Jože Mencinger, with whom Kučan jointly founded Jankovic's Positive Slovenia." You can check all of this in an article in the Finance column. However, as to your claim that we should confiscate illegally acquired property, I must remind you that this is the culmination of the transfer. In this House, an international resolution has been approved, which has committed itself to seizing illegally acquired property. At that time, the government, which was Pahor's, made a reservation to this, is said not to confiscate illegally acquired property, and I personally proposed that this reservation be deleted and the entire transitional left voted against, i.e. against the seizure of illegally acquired property. You speak differently today, but your vote at the time is undeniable. And you knew exactly why you voted like that when it was time for these measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u135	Thank you. The next debater is Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Franc Jurša is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At first, much was said about how to trust our financial system. Please ask our citizens and citizens, and they will tell you exactly what they think about the Slovenian financial system and those who manage this system. And there is no one here who can answer this question instead of our citizens and citizens. They know exactly what this is about. Today a lot of important things have been said, and I am sure that they need to be said 10, 20, 100 or 150 times, so that our citizens and citizens can hear it in the right way. We are all aware, and the fact is that a certain group of people in this country is trying to do everything that most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would not understand the problem and the fact that we are facing. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party and itself have decided to present this matter to the Slovenian man in such a way that they will understand. It's an introduction. Your Honor! I wonder who in the country has the right to decide, at the expense of workers, pensioners, socially disadvantaged families and all those citizens and citizens living below the poverty line, to protect the deposits of the privileged, millionaires, tycoons and all those individuals living in abundance at the expense of those groups. Could Bratušek be the one or maybe Virant or maybe Erjavec or maybe Lukšič and SD party who always advocates that it is the national interest to keep banks in state ownership and thus continue to allow new thefts and thefts to the mafia and uncles from the background. I am sure that no one, indeed no one, has such rights in this country, but even less, to carry out public crime. And those who make such decisions should be called ordinary criminals, who must be imprisoned immediately. Now! Ask the Slovenian people, and you'll see what they tell you. How long are we going to be hearing that we don't have the right to get the data because it's a secret or a bank secret and so on? How long are we going to let them steal from our pockets in front of us? How long will we be hearing that a huge billion money has been stolen, but we have no right to know who is behind who ordered it, and who stole it? I'm sure it has to be done. And all those who sat in these and other banks in Slovenia in the supervisory councils, who were named in the bank's administrations, were irresponsible owners – that is, before things were cleared up – should be seized and required to prove where their capital came from. If there is no evidence, the assets shall be confiscated and the money returned to the state budget. This must be done immediately and without exception! Why am I saying this? See what some who have participated in the boards and supervisory boards of these banks are going through, and how they live. This was written in a number of Slovenian newspapers, with pictures of houses and all that. Where'd they get the capital? How can an average Slovenian with a work he creates that he works 8, 10 or 12 hours can afford? Who can afford this, except of course those who do what they do, and exploit the system through connections, through lobbyes and come to these great properties, or even movables, as has been the case so far, and as has been evident from the documents presented by certain journalistic houses in our country. I will give another practical example, which has already been exposed many times today. Mr Rigelnik, whom we all know, we all know who and what he is. He was sitting in the National Assembly, even the President of the National Assembly, if I am not mistaken – paying EUR 6.9 million dividends a few weeks before the liquidation of the Factor Bank! And here I see the problem of the Bank of Slovenia. If Banka Slovenije acted on time, I am almost certain that this could not happen. To pay off such dividends in such a short time, on the other hand, to enter the country and to protect all those who have their deposits, even more than 100,000 euros, by making the decision it has made. The Bank of Slovenia should also consider the role and responsibility of the administrations, supervisory boards of both banks and their connections or transactions with owners. All the roles of owners, members of administrations and supervisory boards and associated persons should be frozen or converted into equity. I also ask who, why, and with what powers, he has deposited state deposits in these two banks. Today, it has been said that around 4% of the market share was known, and the country has charged around 600 million of some 3.6 billion euro in these two banks, as much as it should have deposits, which is almost one fifth of the state deposits. That's amazing! This is an answer that citizens and citizens deserve. And where is the Bank of Slovenia's responsibility here? Can we trust the Bank of Slovenia? I think and I don't think so. For Slovenia good or very well paid work that you have in Banka Slovenije – you have not done your work for a very good payment. Finally, I also demand, on behalf of the voters and voters of the Republic of Slovenia, that we find out who are those persons who have deposits loaded, who are more than 100,000 euros in these two banks and who are those persons who have recently paid dividends or raised deposits. I also ask who is responsible for such a situation in banks and whether an investigation has been initiated against the administrations and members of the Supervisory Board. And just to conclude, I ask Mr Erjavac whether he has told his pensioners that when the Government, which he sits in, takes this decision, they will lose 200 euros each for such a solution. Did Virant ask the police and all those employed in the interior ministry if they were to lose 200 euros? Did SD President Luksic ask the socially vulnerable and the minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u137	Mr Pojbič, to remind you that you are neither Mr Virant nor Lukšič in the National Assembly. Don't name them to give an answer because they can't give it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u138	Please do not interrupt me because these are the members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which made this decision. So please don't interrupt me! I just have a minute to finish. If you have endured so far, allow Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly to say what they think. This is a legitimate right because we represent the interests of our citizens and citizens, at least I am doing it myself. And I'm proud of that, and that's why I'm here to say what I think the citizens and citizens told me when they voted for me. Let's get this over with. Did Mrs. Alenka Bratusek ask a team of tycoons what they thought if they were willing to pay 200 euros for these things to be paid? So, based on a decision taken by the government. They will surely do so, for they have received a few hundred million in one way or another. Mr President, I am convinced that this meeting was extremely important that this meeting is one of the most important national meetings to discuss whether this country will stand or will not stand. This is a fundamental question and this is a question for everyone living in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that Slovenians and Slovenians will slowly come to a conclusion and realize that there is an urgent need to change something in this country so that words cannot be lived on. And this is a fundamental issue in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u139	Thank you. But the governor, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, has signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u140	Thank you. I expect and ask Mr. Pojbich to apologize to me for accusing me of being a criminal. Mr. Pojbich, are you listening to me? I expect and ask you to apologize for accusing me of being a criminal because I have proposed a measure with which — you do not understand — a small person loses less than in the event of bankruptcy. This is the role of the Bank of Slovenia, whose governor I am, and therefore I will not allow you to accuse me of being a criminal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u141	Thank you. Would you like to answer Mr. Pojbich? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u142	Mr. Governor, I didn't say that. All I said was we could name those people. Please read the magnetogram nicely and it will be very clear to you because I have it here and I can read to you exactly what I said, and I haven't spoken in this context at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u144	You said those who proposed this measure were criminals.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u145	Thank you. However, in these discussions, it is not necessary to pay attention to how we express ourselves, and my intervention was intended only and only to point out that those you have appointed have no opportunity to give an answer in today's debate and are, of course, in a very impossible situation, if mentioned. Mr. Jursha, please. But get ready, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u146	Mr President, thank you for the floor. My greeting goes to the governor with a co-worker, as well as to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance! When I thought about whether to come forward at all, or whether to sign off on the proposal for a debate, I decided to say a few short sentences. I'm probably not gonna find any hot water with this debate. It's like a hot tub. At the outset, I must say that I am neither a banker nor an economist, and that I may be less aware of matters than some speakers before me. But I can think and work logically, and also from what others have said, appropriate conclusions. Since I have heard quite a few very important phrases today, I said that I might repeat them and add perhaps my own personal thoughts. It has been said that all the costs will be paid by taxpayers, both those with the lowest income – I care here for those who have up to €500, as well as €600 and €700. I am a little less concerned about those who have substantially higher incomes, and as a result they have influenced the fact that banks and banking systems in Slovenia are in the same situation as they are. In the past, taxpayers have paid for everything that bankers have done wrong. The recapitalisations, which formed like mushrooms in the rain, always demanded tax money. Therefore, I think that the proposal that was formed within the National Assembly, which was also linked to the establishment of a so-called bad bank, should be implemented. I very much respect my colleague, Bojan Starman, who mentioned this in his presentation of the Group's position. I think that if we did it in time, we would have significantly less problems than we had and than we have now. As for the elite itself, they were banks and they are banks of elites. This is the biggest problem for those who had the right faces to receive adequate credit regardless of whether they had the basic basis for obtaining such credits. Such and those who have actually allowed them to receive the appropriate credits – here I am thinking mainly of the banks' management, the bank owners, in particular the bank supervisors, so that these matters should be regulated in such a way that they do not come to these matters – they are responsible. Sooner or later, we'll have to bring all those responsible to justice. And the time limit of justice must decide who caused the situation in which the banking system is located and consequently the state of Slovenia is in that state. Look, I can't agree in any way, and you know that my debates are never too ideological, that they are political elites from the left or right province. Political elites are of all, regardless of the side of the sky. We are talking about those elites who have made thorough use of this banking system and consequently Slovenia as a country. Yes, I am very concerned and I wonder where and how the predecessor of the current Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Jazbec, has informed us, and I respect and appreciate everything he has said, I somehow support. I think that the decisions were still fine, because they did not actually bring such grief as they could have made if the procedure were different. This banking system is in serious trouble. Six months ago, he was not in serious trouble, and now he's suddenly in serious trouble. Those who spoke to us should also bring in and answer for those statements that thus disinclined us who were sitting or sitting in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u147	Thank you. During the debate, some of the panellists' resignations took place, so that the next debater is mags. Majda Potrat, and prepare for Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Governor! The fact that you have been elected by such a convincing majority in the National Assembly should also take me today to a debate that would be linked to a greater degree of confidence in your decisions than we have seen today. Lack of trust in institutions is not only a Slovenian problem, but a pan-European one. The banks are also due to the situations in which we are, often the target of individual or group distrust. This is particularly interesting because once public research has shown a very high level of confidence in the bank, the Bank of Slovenia and the currency of the week, as well as in the new currency. Why am I talking about trust, and why am I doing this? Because I wonder what I can really expect from a debate based on the thesis that it is a problem of solving the private banks Probanke and Factor Bank with the money of Slovenian citizens. In fact, this agenda item has an integrated thesis that you and your experts want to explain all the time to reject and deny because you're talking about not being a rescue, but a controlled liquidation of these two banks. And you've actually chosen controlled liquidation as a less bad bankruptcy solution. If that is the case, and if they are opposed to political discourse and the professional argument today, we are witnessing how the professional argument is difficult to break through political discourse, which, with the constant repetition of the original thesis, strengthens people's apriority that the behaviour of the bank and their representatives is against the public interest, in particular the interests of small savers. This is what I am particularly concerned about today's debate, because I am wondering whether today's debate will strengthen people's confidence that the country is the one that guarantees deposits of small savers and who will not persuade savers to raise their deposits from Slovenian banks and move them elsewhere, because I have now heard that you are from Slovenian Bistrica, it is on that side, particularly Austria or elsewhere. But Austria has now shown itself almost like a promised country in the debates. Well, that's a typical problem for me. But I myself have understood your debate and your argument as an explanation of some very prudent decision that I also expect from the Governor of the Bank. And then this prudence is linked to the fact that a slow recovery of trust can be expected. This is necessary in these times if, as we would like to say, we should unify and identify our common points for which all of us should work together in order for the country to emerge from the crisis. This is my fundamental reflection on this debate. I'm neither a financier nor an economist, so I can't let myself go to the professional debate, but I've been thinking politically about this as a politician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u149	Thank you. I now give the floor to Eva Irgle, and Mrs Maša Kociper is prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u150	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who has been so patient and very correct all our questions all day long, which we cannot say for the Minister of Finance, who is not actually in this Chamber at all. It is true that there is a deputy here, a secretary of state who has been calling every so long, but on such an important subject, I think the Minister of Finance should still be here. I also believe that the President of the Government should be here. The President of the Government has time for all other things – he has time for us to watch her 15 minutes live, get off the train and then take her bike to the government, but he doesn't have 15 minutes to come to this National Assembly and explain why they decided, of course, to go to this State Assembly, together with the Bank of Slovenia, to go to the controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probank. I think it's more important questions than driving by train or by bicycle. But he's not here today, and he's not Minister or President of the Government. And I would like to ask the Minister how he imagines that, when the government is already totally tightening their belts, when he imposes ever-new and new taxes, how the Minister, whom I now welcome in the Chamber, represents that these same citizens will be saving Probank and Factor Bank from their own pockets today, or, if I may put it more simply, rescue tycoon credits. This seems a crucial question to me, and I hope that the Minister will also answer it. I am also interested, and I expect the Minister to explain to me what kind of discharge the directors of these two banks will receive, whether they already are, and if it is again on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. I wonder if the Minister has already demanded any responsibility in this regard. It does not seem to me that important whether the government has decided to undergo a controlled liquidation or to opt for bankruptcy or another form of bankruptcy. This does not seem so essential to me, but it seems important to me that those who have taken this decision should first sit together and say, "Sorry, who else will believe us if we do not first claim responsibility for those who have led the banking system to what we have now." I therefore expect the Minister of Finance to explain whether he has already initiated any procedures on liability. I think this is a crucial moment for the Minister, and the Governor became Governor only in June, if I am not mistaken, very reasoned and correctly explains our questions, gives the right answers, and unfortunately, the Minister does not know if he can do it. He may be able to explain himself later, but he would expect us to be more responsible about these matters. At this point, the government is destroying the social state. We can see this, but those who have been in the past have had a full mouth of social state, specifically from Positive Slovenia now do not return to any of the meetings. You impose new taxes on the weakest and most vulnerable, and now you impose on them to pay or save Taiwan’s loans. I expect the Minister to explain whether any proceedings relating to liability have been initiated. Of course, other procedures must then be carried out, which are not linked to the Minister, but to the other authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to answer my questions? You'll wait. The next debate is Mrs Masha Kociper, preparing Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u152	President, thank you very much. Nice greetings to the governor, Mr. Minister of Finance! Unlike my colleague Irgle and some other colleagues on the left, I find it really difficult to believe in your party's exclusive and just well-intentionedness to hold this important debate, and in such a strong need that the Minister of Finance or even the President of the Government are present at it all the time. I think that perhaps the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance in these difficult times have something else to do, rather than listen to a four-hour debate, which, in my opinion, would have ended easily after 30 minutes when the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Minister of Finance gave a reasonable and precise explanation of the whole matter, including for all those who have not read the newspapers and monitored the media in the last few days. Because I think that a more qualitative, clear, understandable performance and the reasons we received today from the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia are indeed difficult to expect. I think that once again, from the point of view of experts, which is beyond doubt, the experts in banking have explained why this measure was necessary and why it had to be done exactly as it was done, and in this way. They explained the advantages of controlled liquidation to those who do not understand. They also said that such practices in the countries of the European Union are in principle used only in such a manner of controlled liquidation and virtually never bankrupt. That is why our country has also obtained the European Union's permission in this matter. Once again, they explained what controlled liquidation meant. This is one of the extreme measures proposed by the Bank of Slovenia, which, as we know, is the regulator of the entire banking system and which cannot distinguish in its control between ownership of the country or private ownership, but acts as regulator and supervisor over the entire banking system. In the event of this controlled liquidation, the Bank of Slovenia has also appointed an extraordinary administration which has the intention and task of doing as quickly as possible a less burdensome way of closing this business facility in the case of these two banks. At that time, the bank is completing all obligations towards depositors, as they are protected by European legal acts, which means that it protects ordinary creditors in particular. Therefore, your insinuations about who you want to help are totally inappropriate. In addition, the Bank of Slovenia, which appoints an extraordinary administration, also imposes clear powers on the Administration, including what needs to be done to liquidate the bank in the course of the operation of the bank, and also that, in the liquidation process, the Extraordinary Administration should review the operation and act in the event of irregularities and cooperate with the police, the NPU and other law enforcement authorities, such as the Prosecutor's Office, if necessary. So, also, your insinuations that you want to cover up, protect yourself, are not entirely in place. So forgive me once again if I can't believe your benevolence on this matter. The key issue here was to ensure the stability of the banking system and this is also the key task of the Bank of Slovenia, and of course this is also the task of the finance minister and the country. What could happen if people questioned our banking system to the extent that they really started raising deposits in other banks? Is there really a risk of such a thing happening, including such infertile debates? And besides, during the entire four-hour debate, none of you could answer the question you asked — what would bankruptcy be better than controlled liquidation? Mr Potočnik had the opportunity, for the last time, to answer the journalist's question twice in Odessa, to answer precisely this question. Answer on behalf of the proposer in which bankruptcy would be better than controlled liquidation. Unfortunately, we have not received this answer and obviously we will not get it in this debate. Because it is not possible to get this answer because this debate is again intended only to warm up old and old resentments, stories, divide us into left, right, transition, such and different, and cause a conflict between people. And you list some commentators who hide under commentary opinions without any criminal or indemnity responsibilities envelop all the average and give their expert opinions on what should be and how. It is a pity that none of these commentators dare to move forward, grab and drag this country out of trouble. Some even had the opportunity in the past, but unfortunately they did not do so or did not do so. As usual, I can't sit on these issues of yours about finding those responsible now and now. It is best that the Members themselves, on the principle of 'kadia sued, the Kadija judge', as soon as you are here behind the SDS MPs' speech, tell them who is to blame, what is to blame, that it is immediately to be imprisoned, that the Governor is a criminal and so on. In this country, we have the authorities responsible for prosecuting these crimes. The role of Banka Slovenije is something completely different here and was well explained by the Governor. Here, too, I congratulate him on his excellent debut in Parliament and on his exceptional patience in today's debate. Then, of course, the question is why, dear colleagues, so clever, so omniscient, you are not what needs to be done in order for our banking system to be repaired, to be done a long time ago. The problem of these two concrete banks escalated a year ago when you were on the government. Why didn't you then try to negotiate with the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia or in a joint agreement – responsibility is shared, these are big things – to find solutions? Why was not appropriate measures taken at that time? Some of you have been involved in these procedures for many years, and I will not now list by name who and where the secretary of state was, but the supervisor and so on – that is not my style, that is your style. But why didn't you do it when it was necessary? And now to blame again on some of us who are here in this House for a year and a half, or on a governor who is even less here, or on a minister who is here for five months, is really inappropriate. In short, I conclude that responsibility must be found and that responsibility must be found in a way that is appropriate in a democratic country through the relevant authorities. Until then, all other authorities must do what is necessary. In a specific case, 231 million deposits in these banks belonged to smaller companies, small businesses and natural persons. If you think you should let these people down, it's your right, we think otherwise. That the lower cost of liquidation, such as the cost of bankruptcy, is also a lower cost for the country, is also something that we think is good, but obviously not because hunting witches is more important than anything else. And if the arguments that were presented today more than well by the Minister and the Governor do not fit in with your views and statements, again so much worse for the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u153	Thank you, too. Mr. Shirtzelj as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Cociper's colleague puts herself in the position of evaluating others and her word is probably above everyone else and she takes the right to evaluate the entire National Assembly, each individual, in particular Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's a pose that says something about the person himself. There is no infertile debate here. Here is a very concrete debate on the biggest problem facing Slovenia today – this is a banking system and this is the rehabilitation of the banking system. And we have taken a responsible approach to this question, not on the basis of some rumors, not on the basis of something out of the air. However, it is always necessary to look at the ownership structure. And this ownership structure shows certain companies, certain individuals who have played a role in the past, on the one hand or on the other, on the left or on the right, because there is no problem – it is left, it is right and center and so on. But this assessment, I'm going to say, increases somewhere, how bad everything is here and so on, is completely without any argument, but the speech is due to speech and the reading of inadequacy is twisted out of the vine. I've told you several times about both procedures, liquidation and bankruptcy. The bankruptcy is faster. In bankruptcy, no taxpayers' money is used, much less. Deposits shall be converted into shares. It's done faster. And it can also be more transparent, managed by the bankruptcy manager and so on. It has positive properties, and it probably has some negative properties, which I don't doubt at all. Just like the liquidation, one or the other. He's got some bad qualities. A lot of taxpayers' money will be spent, a lot of written, talked about it for a few years and so on. And here's a lot of questions. So there is no left or right and with regard to arguments we should ease our debate a little or take some things back. Why haven't we done this before? Very clear. See, today it has been said that since 2009, the Slovenian Democratic Party has been proposing a resolution of the banking issue, with a special Bank Claims Management Society or, if you want, a bad bank. This debate has been taking place in Slovenia approximately since then. There are more and more now, or there are those of you who somehow want to accept this institution, or by solving this issue through a particular society. This was impossible in 2011. In 2012, it was said that you are totally against this special institution, that you reject it and that in this way it is not possible to resolve the Slovenian banking system, but only through recapitalisation. I am answering your question why we did not do this before – because you blocked these things. Because you went to the Constitutional Court because there were blockades here because there was no one to be transparent about the proceedings. That's why it couldn't be done. Because the procedure had been suspended for three months, the signatures had been signed and so on because the signatures had been collected. I'm not going into the details right now - that's why. And that is why today, when we are talking very eloquently about these matters and when the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is arguing about these matters, one such eternal speech – I don't know if it's right, I think it's inappropriate. That's the answer. Mrs Kociper, you also spoke about state aid and Europe. Europe has authorised that this is not a state aid ban and nothing less. I think that information has also come from the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry, at least it was in public that this is not a model for all other cases. So, what other model do we have? In addition to the liquidation model, there is a bankruptcy model. For this reason, I have already said in advance that it is not good for the Slovenian banking system, for the security of the Slovenian banking system, for Slovenian investors to exclude one model from the possibility that it could be used at any time. It's not good because you might have to defend him sometime. Maybe. I don't want to, but maybe. This isn't about innuendo. It's about specific things. What is the essential difference? However, today we are talking about whether there are so many roles of the economy, so many individuals and so on, but all are protected, including those with more than 100,000 Euros. In other words, this means that we have an institution that we have in this country, this is a guarantee scheme that only those up to EUR 100,000 are protected, and that this institution is simply not being used or is not in force in the country or is not possible to act because banks would have very serious problems if they had to pay 400 million euros instead of these two banks, as was said, and that would have caused the country to do so in one way or another. You know, there are great content in this regard, and this debate today is absolutely nothing insinuated and is absolutely nothing infertile. After all, many speakers themselves acknowledged, including the opposite, that the debate was fruitful. If you're not here Friday afternoon to save the banking system, I can't help you, but you can use this time better. But the other thing is about responsibility. Here I have to say that no one, at least I didn't think anyone would find any responsibility on the basis of stress tests. I don't think that's ever been said. I didn't hear in this room that it was said that someone would do that. And no one has ever talked about left and right banks, even though this is the first time I've ever thought about it, and I've started counting what are the right banks, if there's any right bank. All are subject to the same criteria, all are subject to the same law, the same institutions, and there is nothing here on this basis. But it's true, 25 or 24 banks are in the country, and now they're going to be 22, and I've never started to divide them into left and right, and now I'm starting to wonder if anyone can help, which is right and which is left bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u155	Thank you, too. Reploco wants Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u156	Thank you very much. When the arguments run out, we're just going to discredit, Mr. Shircelj. If you don't like my way, please understand me if I don't worry too much. Everyone just can't like us. Nevertheless, you must also give me the right to express my opinion. And my opinion is like I said it. If you can speak here for so many hours and so many hours of the same thing, allow the Member to speak his opinion once in a meeting in a manner which he deems appropriate. But that's not why I called. I stopped by because you've been repeating this mantra, which you've been saying in the media all along that the PS, our client, has blocked the bad bank and so on. See, the signatures were collected by the time the law was declared, before the law could be declared and then the President of the National Assembly realized that the photocopies of signatures were not valid. Nothing has been blocked by bad banks and everything that needs to be done with regard to the resolution of the banking system. It is true, however, that until recently you have been a non-executive director there and perhaps you have contributed something to make things go so slowly. And given that you have been able to do two paid jobs for so long, I suggest that it is possible, given that these responsible owners are now to be found – and you said that, owners – that you will take over, just maybe for two wages, not for another third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u157	Thank you. The next debate is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. We've been talking about banks all day now, and when we're talking about banks, we need to talk about trust. If there's no trust, then there's no good banking. We would probably trust the bank as well as the decision of the Minister for Finance and the Governor of the Bank if there were not too many strange coincidences and always the same names we meet. If we read articles, and that's a lot, we come up with names. One of Probanke's advisors was Mr Borut Jamnik, a nephew of the former SD Member, Mrs Brede Pečan. It is also said that the one who supplied the clients in Probank – namely, me and someone else agree to set up a bank, and then the problem is getting customers to come to this private bank, how they will trust such a bank, and so someone had to take care of it. Some say it was Mr. Jamnik. Which probably wasn't hard because we find him everywhere in Kad, Blue Insurance, he was a supervisor at the Triglav Insurance Company, or I think he's still in Pivovarna Laško, Mercator, Telekom and probably nowhere else, and I can't even list everything. Then we meet another name, Herman Rigelnik, which some of you have already talked about, which is also the largest, 40% owned by Factor Bank. In the articles we can read again that Mr Herman Rigelnik went away to a well-deserved retirement in the autumn, and for this he received 390,000 gross retirements, probably to this day he has already spent some of it, but let's see what happened to his businesses. Protej – paid 6.9 million dividends. Then another company belonging to the ACH group. In the years 2009 to 2012, the group created €22 million of total losses, we are talking about losses, while in the same period, a total of 30 million dividends were earmarked for the financing of Prote's manager's buyout. This is a rather strange business, but I'm sure Mr. Rigelnik knows why. Then we meet the name of Mrs Romane Payenk, some of you have already mentioned, the long-standing presidents of the administration, including the founding members of Forum 21, which unfortunately we must mention, because those same names appear there too. In addition, in 2001 Mr Kučan was at their anniversary of the establishment of the bank, which he then praised very much, and then we began to talk about the national interest which clearly led to the results we have today. She's also connected to some nephew or someone, but now I can't find that name. The lady was accused, although the prosecution dismissed the complaint, but this was fortunately complained by Banka Slovenije because she had clearly assessed that there had been abuses or offences. Then there is Mr Roman Glazer, the long-standing president of the Probank Supervisory Board, the first man of Perunina Ptuj, also a founding member of Forum 21 – you will not believe. And I don't know what this gentleman was doing, how he supervised his colleague, how the bank came into red numbers, or how we have to save her today. Then we meet Mrs Tatjano Fink, longtime president of the Trim administration, also a supervisor at the Probank of Mrs Pajenk. How does he do his job? Apparently, it's bad if things happen the way we can read here. And a few more names like that could be found. We could have read a while ago that Bank of Slovenia's representatives, although still under the leadership of the previous governor – by the way, I think he would have deserved some kind of criminal complaint and this is probably the job of the new governor if he realized that he had not done his tasks as he should, because he had information, but we don't have it, except now that I'm reading to you, articles – came to the President of the Government, Mr Janša, and proposed that both banks join the New Credit Bank of Maribor and hang themselves nicely to others. As he is aware that those who have to resolve private, private banks, owners, of course rejected this, which is also in line with the EU guidelines and with what you have done, you are violating these guidelines, and you know this very well. And one more time to trust. Article Slovenian Mafia, I will not read everything to you: "Koreljič's protector Borut Jamnik..., Tomaž Kuntarič always right hand Borut Jamnik... “ – you will be able to read. Then the following article: "Gradis Group G will not present the bank guarantee for the construction of the garage Kozolec 2 because the city municipality will terminate the contract with him because they had a guarantee from Factor Bank and we all know what happened to it," said Mr Jankovic. By the way, KLM's investment, which is majority owned by Mr Jankovic, owes Factor to the Bank EUR 11 million. And this bank also participated in a major project in Ljubljana or in a consortium, banks that financed Stožice. Then another article, Banka Slovenije admitted, Probank in trouble already in 2010: "The Bank of Slovenia noticed the first problems of Probank three years ago, yet a year later it allowed the bank run by Romana Payenk to become even more closely intertwined with its customers in the recapitalisation." In short, with what you have decided in the Government and Bank of Slovenia, you have shown that you support the tycoons, the richest class, that someone living in a 40-square apartment with a minimum wage will pay for the one living in the villa with a pool, has a weekend or two. You can read more about this in the previous Reporter with all the pictures, who and where he recovered since he was connected to Probank or Factor Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u159	Thank you. The next debater is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u160	Dear President, I will be very brief. I have already said the main position in the introductory debate, but I am still assessing that the main responsibility for the situation in Slovenian banking lies with Banka Slovenije as regulator, because at 14 billion losses, because if this regulator could not see the potential risk of the resolution of the banking system earlier, I do not think there is any other option than this. Even in the words of the new governor, we were able to understand that some of the signs were coming at the expense of the previous leadership, so that the orders adopted could not be amended. Above all, it is worrying - and I think it is imperative that two key laws be amended, namely the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Bank of Slovenia Act, as the new Governor has already stated - that, despite declarations or penalties, there is a ban on the management of one of the supervisors' business, that the Bank of Slovenia cannot react. I expect that Banka Slovenije will undertake a thorough overhaul of this system under the new leadership and, above all, that some responsibility will be revealed. It also seems unfair to me, or I would say worryingly that you, as governor today, have admitted that you had this information with respect to Agrobanka, and your representatives on the committee for the last time in the tapegram have repeated that they did not have this information. Once again, it would be fair to taxpayers, given that two private banks have gone into liquidation and that taxpayers will cover these costs, which are not small, we are talking potentially about one billion guarantees in order for these names to be disclosed over 100,000 euro deposits. We only have one more question that I don't think I got an answer from the Minister of Finance or the Governor. The European Commission has made a provisional provision for this. What can be the next procedure if the European Commission is not satisfied with the liquidation plan to be drawn up by the emergency management of both banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u161	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Bostian Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u162	First of all, I would warn you that I said that if we close all the Slovenian banks, 14 billion euros, I think you misunderstood or are explaining in your own way this cost, which is possible. This is possible if we close all the banks and only the guaranteed savers. However, all the deposits in the Slovenian banking system are 24 billion, and then, if you remember correctly, I said that if we close all the banks, it is such a cost. The Bank of Slovenia Act and the Banking Act can be amended, and then we will be the only country in the European Union that will have laws otherwise written than in accordance with the directives and recommendations of the European Central Bank. And the third thing. I said that I learned from the newspapers about Mrs Mihatovic, which means that my colleagues from Banka Slovenije did not lie at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Roberto Battelli has the following word to prepare Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is clear that this is not about the resolution of these banks, but about what Banka Slovenije and Government consider to be the most prudent way to mitigate the consequences of the cessation of these banks and the consequences of this on the banking system and consequently to reduce the damage to taxpayers in such a way. This is okay with you, of course, taking responsibility for such a way in view of the examples that are still waiting for us, but what is escaping is in some way the defensiveness of institutions against these problems. It's like the institutions are dealing with the consequences, not the causes. And if we do not deal with the causes, then it means that we will be able to face the need to put out fires and burn them in the future. Shutting down costs a lot of money. This defensiveness of institutions is something that worries. The causes are usually made from two elements: how and why. I believe that Banka Slovenije does not have all the instruments, according to its institutional role, to eliminate this way and why. He's got them in part. But I cannot believe that, as was said on the Committee on Finance yesterday, the Government does not have these instruments. So it would be good not to deny this possibility, and it would be good for the government to start working publicly and clearly in a way that will not be possible to do so again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u165	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u166	Thank you. Your Honor! Today there has been a lot of talk about the problem of solving both banks, namely Probanks and Factor Banks, with taxpayers' money. I cannot stand by myself in the position of those who feel that the way both banks are rescued by liquidation is inappropriate, on the contrary. I must say that the position of the Government, Mr Minister, Secretary of State and the arguments put forward by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Jazbec, has convinced me. The supervised liquidation supported by Banka Slovenije is also, in my opinion, a more appropriate solution for both banks than bankruptcy on the basis of the above-mentioned positions. The bankruptcy of both banks would first mean that, after the bankruptcy proceedings had been completed, investors received very little, it is estimated that up to 25 % of their deposits. Since there are also companies among the investors, this could also mean the liquidation of these companies and, consequently, would leave a large number of employees unemployed. So the result of bankruptcy would also be increased unemployment, which is already so high in our country. That's the problem. It has already been said that, at the time of the bankruptcy, there could be a fear among citizens and investors would start to raise their roles, and this could be raised not only in these two banks, but someone said here today, also in all other banks in our country. This would also have very negative consequences, as distrust of banks would be encouraged among citizens and we can only guess at how this would lead. That is why I will support the way in which both banks are rescued by controlled liquidation. In doing so, I would like to say that I expect the Government to do everything possible to ensure that the owners, administrations and members of the supervisory boards are responsible for all violations of the laws, for the unfaithful work and poor management of both banks, which have led to the situation they are in today. And in the end, allow me, Minister, one more question. I would like an answer; the administrations have been replaced, whether there are new people in these administrations now. Whether these are people who are trustworthy and not crucified on the left and not on the right and that politics has no and will have no impact on their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u167	Thank you. You want to answer these questions. Will you wait till the end? Mrs. Popot, turn off the microphone. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'll take this opportunity to answer all three of the questions that are. Maybe first of all, it's a matter of taking responsibility. The claim of responsibility is, in fact, a very important element in solving banking problems. In itself, this will not solve any problem, but it is very important to move forward with how it will continue to operate and how it will be prevented. I think that we must all be aware that the process of claiming responsibility must not differ in any way in the case of a bank going bankrupt or a bank going into a controlled liquidation. In both cases, the damage is caused and responsibility must be sought in both cases. That seems like a very important element to me. The other thing I'd like to extend is the claim of responsibility. Not only when a bank ceases to operate because it is going to bankruptcy or liquidation, but also in cases where public funds are managed, public money for the recapitalisation of banks must also be held liable. This aspect should also be highlighted. Therefore, when we prepared a special management letter with Banka Slovenije, we made an additional commitment to the administration that when it detects any irregularities and irregularities it must look for, then it also initiates appropriate procedures. We have also heard that this is already stated in the Company Act, which is the responsibility of each administration. However, when we discussed this at the time, it seemed important for us to write this in a mandate letter in order to give this an appropriate priority, so that the extraordinary management would know that this is important to us too. I am confident that the extraordinary management of both banks will undertake this in a systematic way, that it will do so consistently and that the supervisory board represented by the Council of the Bank of Slovenia will also monitor this and that all these procedures will in fact fail. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know because it's internal information at the bank, but I'm sure they started watching it, just like they started preparing everything else. Another issue is the temporary authorisation of the European Commission. The authorisation procedure shall be two-phase, as in all procedures for granting a State aid to each individual bank. In the first part of the procedure, the Commission allows the bank to be resolved, and in the second part of the procedure, the Commission shall state and approve the liquidation plan. This is very important because if we were to draw up a 30-year liquidation plan, which would be no plan for liquidation, we could call it that. Which means, in fact, the Commission is holding back to look at the liquidation plan in the end, to see that this liquidation plan is appropriate and will lead to the relevant results. As a result, this procedure is two-phased and therefore the second phase is then linked to the liquidation plan. As far as the new emergency administrations in these two companies are concerned, they are people who are trustworthy. These new emergency administrations were set up by the Supervisory Board, Banka Slovenije in the function of the Supervisory Board. They've done all the procedures, and I'm sure they've done the right thing. Not only are these people trustworthy, but they also have the appropriate skills and knowledge that they can do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Before us is the debate on the most important, biggest problem of the Republic of Slovenia at this moment. Unfortunately, we must find that there is no President of the Government at this meeting, although we have specifically written in our request to invite her to the meeting of the National Assembly. Even when we warned her that it would be good for her to be here, she wasn't found, she wasn't found. In 7-8 hours, the Minister spent 10 or 13 minutes with his Secretary of State to discuss all the many issues addressed to the Governor and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that the governor did his part of the task that we were expecting, correctly, solidly, he presented the arguments. But the government is lost, there is no president of the government, there is no minister, there is no one who can answer these things in any way. I don't know why this happened, but given that there are investigations by the NPUs today and there have been some detentions, the President of the Government may also be detained if they are investigating the role of supervisors of the New Credit Bank in all of these indictments submitted by the new NKBM Director. I guess there's a problem here, too. I would like to remind you that last July we had an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the National Assembly at the request of the former Governor, that we had considered the situation in the Slovenian banking system at that time, and despite the fact that the Governor had initiated this debate, he had not actually provided any information on the condition of the burden in the Slovenian banking system. It was from two billion to four and a half, depending on the methodology, the angle and so on. Today we're talking about a number of seven and a half billion. The year went by, the case went up, increased by 100%. And here I see a part of this problem. The second part of this problem is that the Commission has been involved in the investigation of the banking system to prevent corruption. In March, she published a bomb report on the findings in the banking system, but only announced that there were major problems. She didn't come out with one number and one name. Also, the institution that stumbled into all these frauds in the banking system was not able to identify the issue with a number, nor with names and surnames, because I consider this an extraordinary problem. Otherwise, in our decision for the Committee's meeting, we have proposed that the names and burdens be disclosed, as envisaged under the Banking Act for these exceptional cases, bankruptcy or liquidations. Unfortunately, it was also the coalition that overcame this proposal of the decision and did everything to ensure that these disclosures do not occur under the Banking Act. Here, in fact, I can't think any different than that this banking system of ours is some strictly closed ecosystem to which no one can even peek, except to turn any sheet of paper in this ecosystem. This is Natura 2000 in banking or some system we knew from the time of the former Yugoslavia called Gotenica. Whoever entered the system didn't come out anymore. And actually this banking system works in a similar way. A few months ago, colleague Weber spoke about the theft of the century and the betrayal. We are ahead of concrete figures, before concrete conclusions. I expected Mr Weber to open a debate on this subject and develop a debate in the National Assembly, but there was no debate and there was no coalition agreement to reveal who were the people who caused the gap in the banking system by their actions. Unfortunately, we have also not received any SWOT analysis from the proposers of this measure as to what is a more appropriate measure. We must satisfy ourselves with oral interpretations of what would have happened if it had happened and if some measure had been taken. I think that for a serious problem that we have in the country, both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare a SWOT analysis if it is necessary to close the meeting so that the National Assembly can also discuss it and knows that it is so and that it is the only measure. You're essentially asking us to go on trust, but trust has caused this state that we now have, has caused an enormous bank hole, an enormous problem in the country. Given that the operation of both these small banks was typical of a pyramid scheme, no action against those responsible was presented to the public. Typical of the pyramid scheme is that extremely high interest on deposits, on deposits and that loans with low interest rates are friendlyly distributed. That's typical of the pyramid scheme. I hope Mr Kranjec has found that out. At the time he presented the problems of the Slovenian banking system, he did not mention these two banks in one word. Now they're the main problem in Slovenia. When I spoke earlier about inheritance, the one who takes office as his successor also takes over the inheritance. I would like to know in this particular case what measures will be taken to punish those who have come to the National Assembly and have not honestly said what problems are going to arise in the banking system. You were talking about Banka Slovenije taking 62 measures against these two banks over the last two, three years. If the measures have been implemented in accordance with the instructions of the Bank of Slovenia, then the problem is the Bank of Slovenia. If the banks did not implement the Bank of Slovenia measures, sanctions should be followed, including the withdrawal of licences. I would like to know which of these banks, either as supervisor or as a member of the administration, has lost the licence in case of failure to implement the measures prescribed by the Bank of Slovenia. These data must exist. Mr Čehovin said in his introduction that if we complicate something, it will be difficult for the Ski Association of Slovenia. He knows who the committee of one of these banks is. Why don't we expose the other committee so we can see it. This is also proposed in our conclusions. I must say that this is actually a major problem in my opinion. Someone knows something, they're probably holding what they said, and everything else is hidden. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, President of the Government, Mr Minister, Banka Slovenije do not put data on the table. I think it's fair that each of us will give 200 euros to rehabilitate the banking system, that we know who it is, which poor man with the yacht, the villa abroad, in Cyprus, is the 200 euros we're going to donate. That's the one, by the way. As far as the laws are concerned, the laws are good. They're just not implemented. For the implementation of the Banking Act, the supervisor is Banka Slovenije – bankers are people who have not touched anything. None in the banking system, not in these small banks or in large ones, have lost their license. Here the regulator's responsibility is extremely great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u171	Thank you. Governor Dr. Badger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u172	In fact, the consequences of the measures taken against both banks resulted in both presidents and members of the Probank administration losing their license. The owners of the Probank have lost their voting rights. At the same time, all measures were implemented, with the exception of recapitalisation measures, which eventually led to what we did on 6 September, the initiation of a procedure for a controlled cessation of the Probank's operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u174	Good afternoon. All due respect! Given that we have been in this Chamber for quite some time, and we all realize that it is time to move slowly towards the end, I am pleased to find the following; I am sure that both the Governor and the Minister have answered most of the questions today, but they will certainly have a chance to answer in the future, because the process of controlled liquidation is not really finished. And there will certainly be a question of how and what actually happened when this process is concluded. Therefore, I am convinced that the opposition, which has all the right and duty to carry out its work in the National Assembly, has convened an extraordinary session in the first instance too early and, in the second instance, has called it out exclusively and with only one purpose, to abuse the time and continue to use the method it has, to frighten and to talk to those who would like to hear that everything in this country is really purely but really everything is wrong. However, I am sure that, during today's debate, I was essentially dealing with a single issue, and that is, what it would look like today if we had the same governor and the previous government and there would be an exact same procedure. Of course, an extraordinary meeting of the opposition on this side would not call. Certainly not because we never had any serious needs for this, but it is true that different messages would come in the same procedure in a different way. It would look something like this: today we have eliminated two tycoon banks, decommissioned Taiwanese stockholders and owners of speculative bonds, and saved small and medium-sized enterprises and ordinary investors and some municipalities. However, to the extraordinary administrations, we have also ordered that every smallest suspicion of a crime be reported. And the police, as you already know, are working today, and they're already at work. Such a declaration could only take place in the previous government, but it is sad that the whole story is to use the exact same procedure. The one you're hanging on to today, and you're saying it's questionable that he's doubtful that there are too many open questions. Far from it. I fully agree with you, every question is useful if it only gets its answer. Some answers came today, and some answers will have to wait. Because for what Mr Tanko wants, to have some on the gallows and to literally mark them as some kind of criminal path and to hang them in favour of some of their pre-election fighting purposes, it is clear that this is not the case in this country. In this country, we have decided by law and constitution who and when he has an assignment. Of course, we have heard other topics in this debate today, and I must say that I was finally surprised at Mr Tank, who on the one hand says let us open all the names and say who is who, on the other hand, he suggests to the Governor and those who are empowered to do so, if necessary, to close the meeting. These two don't go together. These two simply do not go together for one reason, if you have already requested an extraordinary meeting, it is right to be open so that Slovenians and Slovenes will hear the answers they need. Not in the way SDS is used on Twitter and then repeat after a well-known scenario Mr Tanko in his debate, but in particular what needs to be done is that the banking system is not in the best condition and, most importantly, that the rehabilitation of banks started with this step. What we will pay and what will be, I am sure that we can only assess today, but we cannot give the exact numbers, because this will only be determined by the procedure itself at the end and also explained. I'll tell you what. Mr Tanko, President of the Government, I must say that everyone who is needed to give legitimate answers to your questions is sitting in this Chamber today. No one else is yet obliged to explain further at this time, but after the institution you have as the opposition and a Member, ask the Prime Minister a question and you will have an answer. What is important to me and to us in our Group of Members is, above all, that the process has begun. In addition, we will have more than clear results and also a report. I am particularly interested in what will happen next. What the rehabilitation of the banking system will look like, because I think that, and this is also your correct conclusion, Mr Tanko, that this is the most important issue in the country. Today, I hope we have reassured the Slovenian public that things are going in the right direction, and that is the only right answer for me. I hope that today we will close the meeting as soon as possible and put some more energy into each other's lives, and especially to relieve those who are working on this process. Today’s debate is – I must say in the end – sad for me mainly because I thought that after the experiences you have, you will be different. I see you're living in the same patterns, and all that matters is the points and the displays on the cameras, so I'm really sad. Both, the Minister and the Governor, thank you very much for the good process and for the right path, but especially for the very clear and sovereign answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u175	Thank you, too. I inform you that, in the context of the general debate, we have given the floor to all those who have applied for the debate. But I ask if he still wants the word of the Government in the general debate? You don't want to. Maybe the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia? [[No, no, ……]] Maybe more proponents? Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! I cannot agree that this debate was unnecessary or that it happened too early and not that everything in this country is completely wrong and that this is what we are saying is far from it. I think the debate was very concrete, we got some answers, we didn't get some. We'll probably get them in the future. We've got some data, we'll probably get some more. We didn't get what we actually demanded in our demands. However, given that responsibility has been stressed on all sides, and in particular that we must act responsibly and that there is also a need to require the responsibility of others in the banking system to act – in particular the administrations, the supervisory councils, the supervisory authority of the Bank of Slovenia and so on – that, of course, some of our proposals, when we vote, accept and not reject, as they were on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. After all, all the debaters would prove that what they are saying is actually what they are thinking and then doing. For there is something to talk about responsibility in the banking and financial system, and another is that it is applied by taking certain measures. It is difficult to answer hypothetical questions; what if, what if, what if, if there were another government here, if there were another governor, what would happen to the banking system and how we would actually react. I think that these are just hypothetical questions that probably want to move audiences or viewers away from the actual problems that we have, away from being even worse or not bad enough, but I think it could be much better, especially if some other government has done a lot of things before that, which has not been done here. I doubt that Slovenians and Slovenes have received the answers that we set out here, that they must receive them or that they need to receive them. I respect Slovenians and Slovenes, and I don't think we can tell them what the answers are, but those who are right for them, and what they can't find out. I also think that they are sufficiently insightful and that they can understand the answers from the discussions themselves. Far from me telling them what they can and can't find out. What I can say is that they need to know the truth and we need to tell them the truth. I also hope that the Slovenian public has not become too calm today, because I don't think she was too upset either. However, these procedures are proceeding as they are, and if there is no reason for reconciliation, then I don't think we need to talk about it either. Given that we have some answers, some of us are likely to be later, some of the answers will probably be more accurate, especially by the government, as to how the state budget funds are put into certain banks and what this role is. We are probably going to discuss this in some kind of budget debate or in some other public debate, in order not to insist here, but there are still a lot of open issues. However, given that everyone today, at least as I have understood it, or at least most of us, would advocate for accountability and transparency of procedures, I also think that we agree, that this respected assembly, colleagues and colleagues will simply commit the Government and Banka Slovenije to provide a written report within eight days on the reasons that led to the decision on the controlled liquidation of Probanka and Factor Bank, and why this has been taken. I think it'll be easy. After all, this has already been said and we have heard that liquidity has been extremely problematic. I think that this is also good because we are actually documenting these reasons, and that even later, when scientists or anyone is discussing it, they will have to refer to this written detailed report. In addition, we propose to forward a name list of persons with deposits of more than 100 000 euros that investors in Probank and Factor Bank had. This is about the government's or taxpayers' guarantee, the fact that these deposits are over 100,000 euros outside the guarantee scheme, which is something extra depending on the legislation. I understand the actual situation, I understand the difficulties of the banking system, that there may be problems if other banks are also guaranteeing their money or paying off these deposits with their money outside of €100,000, but I think it would be right to get it. In addition, we propose to the Government, in cooperation with Banka Slovenije – the Government is the proposer – to immediately take appropriate measures or propose appropriate legislation to freeze all applications made by Probank and Factor Bank owners of both banks, former members of the boards administration and related persons. I mean, and this has been said on several sides that if any of the criminal offences found by the court are to be committed to the rehabilitation of both banks or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, we would like to obtain a list of persons who have received 100 000 euros paid since 2000 and to submit to the National Assembly of the Bank of Slovenia the checks, controls and conclusions already referred to by the Governor. I think he was talking about 62 conclusions. I don't know if it was one or two banks, anyway, for both banks 62 joints. I understand they're hard to tell. It's a rather difficult matter, and I think we could get it, as I understand the governor, there's no problem in giving it to us. In addition, I propose that the National Assembly take a decision to require the Government to report to it within eight days whether the Republic of Slovenia is able to pay the deposits of all citizens and citizens in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution. We have heard about this before, but we can get this in writing from the Government or from the Bank of Slovenia. We have heard figures on what this means for deposits of up to 100,000 euros – that it is 14.15 billion. I think this is a completely understandable proposal. And what I said earlier is that I would like to receive from the Government or I suggest that the National Assembly adopts such decisions as to get a report on why such a high share of state deposits is being deposited in Probanka or Factor Bank. The correct report would be that such a report would apply to all banks, we are talking about 3.2 or 3.4, 3.6 billion — differently, in short, more than three billion. And what policy does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia lead to these banks – whether it is primarily to help with liquidity – and also under what conditions this is agreed or what interest is paid to the Slovenian budget for this money. Ladies and gentlemen, these are proposals that we have talked about indirectly today, and if we want to move from words to actions, then I propose to the coalition to support these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u177	Thank you, too. We have held a general debate on this and I conclude it. However, we are moving on to a debate on the points of the complementary proposal for a decision and on the amendments tabled. First of all, I am putting an amendment to the first point of the amended proposal. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss the amendment to point one. I note that there are no applications for discussion to explain the first point. Mr. Shircelj, amendment to point one.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u178	Once again, the amendment to the first point speaks of the fact that the National Assembly requires a detailed report from the Government and Banka Slovenije on the reasons which led to a decision on the controlled liquidation of Probanka and Factor Banka. We have already talked about this today, and I can only add to the fact that controlled liquidation must also be seen from the perspective of the case if such a system applied to other banks and what it actually means. I understand from the debate that there is no problem in adopting the amendment to the first item and therefore I expect this amendment from the Slovenian Democratic Party to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u179	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to point one? I take it that I do not and I conclude the debate on the first item. I am opening the debate on the amendment to the supplementary proposal for a decision, to the second point. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Proposer of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Šircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u180	The second point is the amendment to forward a list of all persons with deposits of more than 100,000 euros. These deposits will be secured by the State, these deposits do not go into the guarantee scheme and it is some extra service of the State to the owners of these deposits. Great, why? Because they're not in the guarantee scheme. I think it would be necessary for those persons, legal or physical, who have deposits of more than 100 000 euros, the Bank of Slovenia to mediate to know how many there are and who are and whether there are any links to these deposits with ownership, links to the supervisory councils, connections to administrations and so on. After all, Banka Slovenije receives data from individual banks on how many shares and other benefits members of the boards and members of the supervisory boards have. These data exist and are already available by Banka Slovenije under the Bank of Slovenia Banking Act. This would also mean that it would be easier to prevent, as I have already mentioned, the so-called incest relations, when the largest depository could also be the principal owner, the chief supervisor and also influence the administration. In short, this relationship may also be observed in these two banks, so I think it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u181	Thank you, too. Does anyone else want to discuss point 2 or the amendment to this point? I guess not. I conclude the debate on Point 2. We are moving on to the consideration of the amendment to the third point of the supplementary proposal for a decision, the proposaler of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u182	The amendment to point 3 states that the National Assembly proposes to the Government and Banka Slovenije to propose appropriate legislation in order to freeze all applications made by Probank and Factor Bank owners of both banks, former members of the administration, supervisory boards and related persons. I think there's been a lot of debate today. I think a lot of debaters have also said that owners have to respond with all their assets. I will not repeat all the discussions on where this property is now. I will not comment on articles from various magazines that paint yachts, villas and so on. However, I would appeal to all of you to support this amendment because it is good for the Slovenian banking system, Slovenian citizens and citizens, and for all procedures to be conducted in a transparent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u183	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss point three? I guess not. I conclude the debate on item 3. I am opening the debate on the amendment to point 4, the proposal for a Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. One more time for a while. We propose a roll-call list of persons who have received more than €100,000 from deposits and in relation to whether it is an administration, a supervisory board, owners, connected persons. I think it would be appropriate to find out how the management has been operating in the last period, how the Supervisory Board has monitored these payments and to whom they have been forwarded, especially because it is publicly known that certain dividends have been paid to owners. In short, first the dividend, then the so-called controlled liquidation, which shifts the burden to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u185	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss point four? Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u186	Thank you very much. In view of these implementations, however, I would draw attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in its opinion on the recommendations, highlighted the institutional independence of the Bank of Slovenia under which, pursuant to Article 152 of the Constitution, the Bank of Slovenia, as an institution, is independent and does not have to comply with the instructions of the Government, Parliament or other bodies and also other bodies, in accordance with this principle, must not alter the actions of the Bank of Slovenia. Therefore, these recommendations are completely contrary to these principles and are also in violation of the obligations of the Bank of Slovenia to protect data to safeguard the confidentiality of applications – much has been said about this today. The Bank of Slovenia is legally bound to this confidentiality. This law can be changed by Members, if you get enough of it, of course. But we will be, as the governor has said, the only country in the world that will have such legislation. In the work in which the applicants propose to implement certain measures, the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that it was again an intervention in the exclusive competence of the Bank of Slovenia as a independent and independent regulator, so that the full recommendations could perhaps be seen as inappropriate in any other case for a meeting of the assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u187	Thank you. Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I respect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. I know that Banka Slovenije is independent and I do not see any problem. Today we are talking about liquidation and bankruptcy procedures. In bankruptcy and liquidation procedures, banking secrecy is treated slightly differently. That's the first time. Another time. In view of what the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia has said, according to the principles of transparency, according to the principles of fairness, because all taxpayers will pay for the losses of the rehabilitation of these banks and have the right to know, we ask the Bank of Slovenia to provide the National Assembly with the information I have been talking about – with all independence. However, bank secrecy falls when bankruptcy and liquidation begin. One way or another. Moral and ethical questions arise — how banks operated, who were given credits, who benefited, and who, if any. It can't be anyone. As long as the court doesn't prove it, they're all innocent. However, in view of so many discussions, given the content of the debate, I think it is appropriate for the National Assembly to obtain these data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u189	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to point four? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on the amendment to point 4 and open the debate on the amendment to point 5, the motion for a Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Today, 62 measures have been mentioned by the Bank of Slovenia in these two banks or recommended to the Bank how they should act. We want to win these 62 measures in the National Assembly. Given that the Governor of Banka Slovenije has already started to interpret them, given the time constraints, I think there should be no difficulty in having the Bank of Slovenia conveying to us its conclusions on these 62 measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u191	Thank you. With this we have exhausted the debate on the amendments to individual points, so I am closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. The decision will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 20. 9. 2013 You've received an e-club review. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the first point of the supplementary proposal for a decision. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the second point of the supplementary proposal for a decision. Can we vote? An explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation or its own, Mr Tanko? Emissary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u192	Thank you very much. This amendment refers to the fact that, pursuant to the Banka Slovenije Act, cited provisions are also cited in the amendment, pursuant to the second and third paragraphs of Article 228 of the Banking Act and the fifth paragraph of Article 231 of the Banking Act, within 8 days, a nominal list of persons with deposits of more than EUR 100,000 and associated persons held in Probank and Factor Bank will be paid from public funds with the State guarantee. In the event that the National Assembly does not vote on this amendment, it shall also vote against Articles 228 and 231 of the Banking Act, which expressly imposes this on cases of bankruptcy or liquidation. And I wonder what such secrets are needed and who is protected if such an amendment is not voted on. Who's he protecting? Even if the law provides, it is obvious that the coalition will vote in favour of not exposing these persons, these persons and the persons associated with them. We can ask whether we can still talk about confidence in the Slovenian banking system, whether the extraordinary administrations that are called are worthy of trust in this liquidation of both banks and so on. In short, it is obvious that this is a story in which it does not want to come in any transparent way to familiarise itself with those who have stakes of over 100,000 euros and will be paid with the taxpayer's money. The EUR 100 000 is a strong over-average role in the Republic of Slovenia, and those with possible reduced social transfers, with potential reduced pensions, with possible additional taxes on assets, will be paid to ensure that the EUR 160 million is paid for deposits higher than the average. And by the way, Mr. Secretary, this amount, or this amount, is about half the amount that you will be looking for in the budget by pressing other taxpayers or by searching for new sources. You'll give about half to people with over-average deposits. We therefore propose that these persons be disclosed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u193	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr Jani Möderndorfer, on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u194	I'll be very brief. We sat here for eight hours today and we listened to why that was not possible. I don't know why we're moving now, and we're deceiving how we're going to discover something like this. I believe that every single one of my uncles and aunts would love to know who has these deposits over 100,000, if that's not possible. Let's just say it. It is not a problem, make a law – the governor called you – and let us change it, this moment is impossible. We will not support such a proposal or amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u195	Thank you. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? He doesn't want to. I see there are some interested in explaining the voice. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Because this is an amendment that says that the depositors of more than 100,000 and related persons are published; because in this case it is in the Factor Bank and Probank for people and connected persons who are fully part of the para state, with the greatest impact that they have put on their knees; because we have heard that one such person is Mrs Vera Mihatovic, who is constantly being recruited; because in recent times the Minister of Finance has recruited very suspicious people into various institutions and even after incestuous relationships, it is extremely important that this is published that this throw is stopped somewhere to find some antibiotic that will affect this disease disorder. And that's why you're so defensive of this disclosure, this set! I know you have to protect that you were created to protect this, but because of the citizens who are against poverty at the expense of covering this, it is necessary to publish this and to keep the citizens informed and informed. Whoever talks to them is important in society, but in fact, he steals from their pockets every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u197	Thank you. Voice explanation, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u198	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! We are absolutely in the SDS that the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Banking Act are respected, especially in the case of active banks, but we must be aware here that these are two inactive banks that have gone into liquidation. These two banks will be rehabilitated at the expense of taxpayers. Those who have deposits of over 100,000 euros are saved at the expense of taxpayers. It's a non-functioning bank, liquidation process, and other things. And I think that it would be fair for all taxpayers, it is a recommendation to obtain a list that the Bank of Slovenia provides to the National Assembly. However, in amending certain parts of the Banking Act, I think that this law will need to be amended primarily with regard to who the supervisor can be, when the term of office expires and, above all, who is a member of the administration and when the administration is called off. If the law were to contain this, I believe we wouldn't be talking about 80 billion holes, but the matter would have been otherwise remedied. I will personally support this proposal. Once again, I find it fair to all taxpayers. It is two inactive banks that have gone into liquidation and where deposits of over 100,000 euros will be saved at the expense of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u199	Thank you, too. Can we get to the vote? The explanation of vote is also Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u200	Thank you very much. In explanation of this article or this recommendation, we have also written a provision of the article – I hope that Mr Möderndorfer has read it. With regard to the prohibition or authorization of disclosure. Disclosure of such confidential information shall be permitted in the event of criminal proceedings and in the event of bankruptcy or forcible liquidation of the bank, that is, the provision of the law, paragraph 3 of Article 228. We don't really need any change in the law. Here we just charge Banka Slovenije to do so when you say we have no idea what laws, ineffective and I don't know which ones. We have a legal solution. However, a coalition with non-support to this amendment is consciously avoiding and blocking the publication of persons involved in the bankruptcy or forcible liquidation of the bank. So, what are we gonna do? Why are you kidding? Who's he protecting? What names are the ones that can't come in on the day in this account? After all, we will all be involved in financial recovery attempts because we will pay through new taxes, through the budget, to cover these things. After all, the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is ours. I am sorry that the coalition is so firm in these matters that it knowingly blocks the adoption of a recommendation that is in accordance with the provisions of the Banking Act. The Minister probably knows that, so he probably avoided the debate that we had before, but that's how it's arranged for us. I think it's a minimum standard to respect that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u201	Thank you. Explanation of vote, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u202	Of course I'm against myself personally. But what Mr Tanko said is unheard of – we call for illegality in the temple of democracy. Once again, it just doesn't work that way. You have an investigative committee on banks, let's look there at everything you can, of course there'll be a closed session, and no one will know except you, and let's take a look at it there. At the same time, on an official basis, all those who have done anything illegal must report it to the relevant authorities. So this is not about any toughness of the coalition, but it is only about what should actually be primary in Parliament, and that is legality, Mr Tanko, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u203	Before I give the floor to explain my voice, of course, these warnings from the bench are in place, polynomization is not allowed. However, if it is used in the previous phase by speakers who have explained their voices, it is to be expected that someone will try to react. Please note that we are in the stage of explanation of vote and tell us why you will vote in favour or against the amendment to the second point of the proposals for conclusions. Mr. Brultz, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u204	Your Honor! I will vote against this amendment for a simple reason, because there is no need to order anyone in this recommendation to comply with the law in force. And if this law is in force, then why don't you also write down something from the constitution to rewrite something into this law and say that Banka Slovenije must respect it. There's no need. I will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr Golubovich also explained the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u206	Good-bye! Three times, four times the governor, supported by the SDS – I think only the SD then said publicly that it would not – said that it could not give this information. To force the National Assembly to do something illegal when called by a respected person, a governor who has a lot of support, that he cannot do it, that we can change the law and do it, and we will be the only country in Europe, then very difficult to support something, even though he might want to see the data himself. And there's something else. Let's put an end to this, because today there has been so much talk about this responsibility, to make the National Assembly adopt the law that all crimes in the area of banking, privatisation, and let's add arms transactions, not obsolete. We can do that, too, and the responsibility will be revealed by some new generation that will want to discover this. By voting against this amendment, I believe that this issue will also be raised within the Investigative Commission on Bank Control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u207	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Not yet. Voice explanation, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u208	I would like to remind my colleagues that the investigative commission is about banks, talking about state-owned banks. It means that private banks cannot be investigated within the framework of an investigative commission. You have obviously misread our proposal, but some are trying to make the Commission as few as possible. One more time. The National Assembly shall propose to the Bank of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 228(2) and Article 228(5) of the Banking Act, within eight days, to forward to it a list of all persons with deposits of more than EUR 100 000 and associated persons held in Probank d.d. and Factor banka d.d., and shall be paid from public funds in respect of the guarantee issued to the Government. These two articles, which I have referred to, speak of the need to protect data and are classified, except in the case of — that is to say, this prohibition that data must be protected and must not be transmitted to anyone, shall apply and the prohibition referred to in the second paragraph shall not apply to confidential information necessary for the execution of criminal proceedings and in the event of bankruptcy or forcible liquidation of banks. That's what we're talking about today. Both banks are in forcible liquidation, so under the law we have the right to obtain this data. Now it's just a question of who wants to get them, who doesn't or some already have them, and some of us can never get to those data so that we can act. But they always tell us that we didn't do our job. So I will support the proposal we made in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u209	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u210	Mr President, thank you very much! I will also support this proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think the leader of the delegation, Jože Tanko and Alenka Jeraj, have very clearly explained why this is possible. And I cannot believe that the leaders of the parliamentary groups who do not understand and know the law are sitting in this Parliament. That's amazing! That's absolutely amazing. I'm embarrassed! I must say that I am embarrassed to be sitting in such a Parliament where the leader of one of the largest parliamentary groups does not know the law and speaks utter nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u211	Mr. Poebich, I've already warned you that controversy is not allowed. How they're going to vote is what they said. You tell me your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u212	I'm just finishing up. As I have already said, I will vote in favour of this and I would like to say that, for this country, it is extremely important for the Slovenian people to know who are those with capital of more than 100,000 euros and associated persons. With this, this country and all those who should expose the grey eminence that is destroying the Slovenian state – to expose it to the Slovenian public and once see who are the ones behind the manipulation of the Slovenian state and stealing money from every individual, every Slovenian and Slovene. We have to end this. I am sure that he is not in this House, which has no interest in once reaching that goal. This grey eminence must be disclosed urgently and the Slovenian public must know this. Because if we're paying for all these problems, it's also good to know who's stealing money from our pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u213	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper will explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u214	Of course, I will vote against this amendment also because the article referred to by the opposition was not properly interpreted. This instruction on the use of data for the purposes of criminal proceedings obliges members of the extraordinary administration to inform the relevant authorities in the exercise of their functions in the management of the bank during this transitional period of possible deviations and suspected offences. Unlike the SDS, which would shut people down if I didn't say something else, if only they were mentioned on the list of commissioners, the rule of law waits for the proper procedures to be processed. However, when the people in court are on the basis of these proceedings at a public trial, you will also be able to see who they were for all those with a sufficiently high level of suspicion. But it's true that it's not up to you, it's up to those who are legally authorized to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u215	Thank you. I take it we can move to a vote on the amendment to point two. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the third point of the amended proposal. Can we vote? We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth point of the amended proposal for a decision. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point 5 of the amended proposal. Can we vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Here the Governor spoke of 62 measures taken in recent years at Banka Slovenije against both banks. We propose to receive a report on all these decisions of the Bank of Slovenia or measures taken since 1. 1. 2009 onwards, when this crisis began, and we also propose that the Government, on its behalf, will probably be prepared by the Minister of Finance, report on why the share of state deposits in Probank and Factor Bank is so disproportionately high and who approved it. In fact, this will be the only task that Mr Minister will be given today, until now, he has had three minutes of discussions in twelve hours and at least a report on why these shares are so disproportionately high, as regards deposits in the structure of this bank, could be prepared. The Bank of Slovenia, as previously said, has taken 62 measures, but it would be interesting to know what those measures were, how they stepped down and when the first sanctions were carried out – or now that these presidents of the administrations have retired, or have these licences been withdrawn in 2010, when they were still actively running the bank, one or the other. And I think that in terms of confidence in the institution, trust in the Bank of Slovenia, trust in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would be a duty to the National Assembly, without asking them, to provide this information. Since there is obviously no will, we propose that the recommendation should accept that we receive from both institutions the data required in eight days. Of course, if the Minister considers that we are not doing well, then we will probably not get it, but the National Assembly must accept some conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u217	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. An explanation of the voice in your own name, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I will also support this proposal, which we propose to the fifth point. In fact, in the literature I read, in the newspapers and so on, I also read that Pahor's government, the government during the financial minister Franco Križanič – we know that Mr Isilovich advised him at the time and that there was a whole discussion about it and who was the chief of the finance ministry – that at the time more than 100 million euros were invested in both banks, and we then obtained money by borrowing abroad. Now, that can be true, it may not be true, but I think we have the right of Members and Members to know whether they hold that we owe ourselves, get the money and then invest it in two private banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u219	Thank you. There's still magic to explain the voice. Vogrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. See, I believe that in a successful country, the responsible Parliament would be thoroughly familiar with and explore the causes of bankruptcy of banks, businesses, own bankruptcy and so on. There are causes of bankruptcy in corporate, it's a question. This is in the harmful context of the paide capitalists, banks and governments who, in their desire for their own benefit, have forgotten the mission of the institutions they represent. And of course they created a monster apparatus that swallowed its own country and the institution of the system. I didn't prepare this today, I wrote this six months ago in a book about why Slovenia went bankrupt. My colleague, Lois Potočnik, told me that my book to the Ships on land would now become real because it's a shipwreck. Even more painful is this shipwreck, because we are unable to investigate the underlying causes and instead of accusing each other and pretending to be smart, we should explore the causes. The causes are deep, they'll be painful. Six months ago, I said this year – some banks are going bankrupt, the beach is going to burst, believe me, because we are not able to face the truth. And one wonders what he is doing in this House. Whatever is proposed by the opposition, this has been overheared every time. Well-intentioned proposals have been heard, so it is best not to vote, and I have decided not to vote at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-20-SDZ6-Izredna-43.ana.u221	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We are voting on the amendment to point 5. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended this by voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the problem of the resolution of private banks, Probanks and Factor Bank, with the money of Slovenian citizens in full. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision-making process in full. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 6. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good-bye for the next session.
