ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Janja Nazast, Mr Jožef Horvat, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Mr Dragutin Mate and Mr Ljubo Žnidar. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 30 May 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. Members and Members, please first check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision announcing a constitutional act amending the 90s, 97s. And 99. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 36th extraordinary meeting on 24 May 2013, the National Assembly adopted the Constitutional Law amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law no later than 8 days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for confirmation to the electorate at the referendum. The request for a referendum will not be submitted as 74 Members and Members informed me in writing that they would not require the amendment of the Constitution to be submitted for approval to voters at the referendum. Therefore, the National Assembly may declare the Constitutional Law amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law of the National Assembly shall be proclaimed by the adoption of a decree on a declaration. The draft decree was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for its consideration. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished ministers, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! The text of the Proposal for a Decree on the proclamation of the Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted by the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 3rd meeting on 9. 5. 2012. Our Constitution provides in Article 171 that the amendments to the Constitution shall enter into force by a declaration in the National Assembly and shall, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, declare the Constitutional Act amending the Constitution no later than 8 days after its adoption. The announcement shall be made at a meeting of the National Assembly by means of a decision on the declaration. The adoption of the decree and the proclamation will amend Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopted on 24th. 5. 2013, entered into force. The Constitution represents the highest legal and political act of every country and its changes are taking place all over the world, not just with us, accept orderly and shaking hands. Today, when we announce two amendments to the Constitution in Slovenia, it is a solemn and important moment, so allow me to thank the members of both expert groups who have contributed significantly to the quality of the content of both constitutional laws by their work and knowledge. The following gentlemen and ladies participated as experts in the first amendment: Dr. Miro Cerar as coordinator, Dr. Loize Ude, Dr. Tina Stanovnik, mag. Jorg Kristian Petrovich, Dr. Igor Masten, mag. Helena Kamnar, Dr. Tone Jerovšek and Dr. Žiga Andolšek. Thank you all so much again. At the same time as the President of the Constitutional Commission, I also take the opportunity to congratulate all Members and Members of the National Assembly on the consensus reached at this occasion. However, to all of us, including citizens and citizens, I want both adopted amendments to be an important stone or a stone in the mosaic of the necessary steps and measures that will bring our country back to a better and, above all, a more optimistic future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u3	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Madam President of the Government, honourable President, fellow Member and fellow Members! First, let me express my recognition and satisfaction to all parliamentary parties that we have all together achieved sufficient political wisdom and the necessary political consensus that constitutional changes on the regulation of the legislative referendum are urgently needed, and also that these constitutional changes must be adopted as soon as possible. All political parties were united that the current constitutional arrangements for the referendum were no longer appropriate. This has proved to be true in the use of this institute in practice. More often than truly expressing people's will, the legislative referendum was used for political blockades, whether it was the government of left- or right- centred political parties. The use of this institute in practice did not follow the actual purpose of the legislative referendum – to give voters the right to make direct decisions on the most important and key social issues. With the constitutional amendments adopted, this actual purpose of the referendum remains irreversible and its abuses are prevented. In Novi Slovenija we particularly welcome the change in constitutional arrangements regarding eligible candidates for the referendum. This narrows the range of eligible applicants. From now on, only 40,000 voters will be eligible candidates for the legislative referendum. The referendum is essentially intended for voters and not for politicians. The National Assembly and the Council of State, which have thus far been entitled to proposers, have set up a representative democracy and have exercised their respective roles in the adoption of legislation in the legislative process itself. There is no need for her to exercise her will in the referendum process. In Novi Slovenije, we have expressed the most concerns about the required quorum for the validity of the referendum decision throughout the constitutional changes process. The referendums carried out so far have rarely exceeded the 35% threshold, despite the fact that this was an important social issue. The rejected referendum with a fifth quorum seems an appropriate solution for improving legislation in the field of the legislative referendum and has been supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group. We will also support the decree proclaiming the Constitutional Law amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of Slovenia. I would add that, on the basis of the constitutional changes adopted, there will also be a need to amend the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative. The new Slovenia predicts that it will seek to tighten the entry threshold for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the increase in the number of signatures of the initiators as well as on the way in which signatures are collected. Members of the New Slovenia Group have already tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for amendments and a supplement to this law, by which five thousand certified signatures are to be collected by the initiators for the initiation of the procedure, but no political agreement has been reached on the proposed amendments. The tightening of the entry threshold for the submission of the call for a follow-up legislative referendum will, like the constitutional changes adopted, have an important impact on the prevention of political blockades.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u5	Thank you for your introduction. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members! Today's adoption of the decree is the conclusion of a longer constitutional review procedure, and the positive Slovenia will support this decree and thereby support the proclamation of the Constitution. In this matter, we could turn the famous river "in the third" into "in the fourth goes willingly." Three attempts to amend the constitutional regime in the field of referendum have already taken place before our term of office and have always been stuck just before the end. The last adopted amendment to the referendum regime on Friday thus represents the fruit of the multi-annual reflection of the profession and will significantly reduce future possible abuses of this institution. As has been pointed out many times before, we are now taking the referendum as a tool out of the hands of the people alone. With exceptions, we limit the Constitutional Court and place more predictability in its decision-making. The quorum of participation significantly increases the legitimacy of the referendum decision. So far, every interested minority in the referendum has indeed been able to break the law passed by Parliament in a long-standing and appropriate legislative procedure. Following a new decision, 20% of voters will be required to vote in favour of this decision and to reject the law in the referendum. Let me stress once again that the required majority is the lowest in Europe. In terms of strengthening direct democracy, people need to be encouraged to take more advantage of the many options and steps already in place, which our legislation allows to influence the content of the law when it comes to it, not only after it has already been adopted. Let me conclude with the idea that people have also been unwilling to change legislation and have expressed a number of concerns. But at this difficult moment in history, it would be very wrong to oppose any and all decisions just because we are dissatisfied. Decisions that are good and that can improve the situation should be adopted and given the opportunity to live in practice. In Positive Slovenia, we firmly believe that this type of decision is also a change in the referendum regime in the field of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Today is the final step in changing the constitution in the field of referendum and fiscal rule. I can say that many efforts have been made to finally adopt these two constitutional amendments, which give the government a much greater opportunity to plan, with greater certainty and confidence, steps in many areas, particularly in the area of public finances. This and future governments will no longer be exposed to the pressures and blockades faced by the previous government. If I only recall the submission of a request for a referendum on the law on the implementation of the budget last December. These two solutions, which we will confirm today, are the conclusion of a longer process, stretching out over three governments and coalitions. Regrettably, as has been shown in recent days, irrelevant, uncompromised political or political reservations in some political environments are only ending today, even though they could have completed it at least a year ago. Two days ago, we adopted two recommendations from the European Commission, and in point 11 of the European Commission's recommendations on the 2013 National Reform Programme and the Council's opinion on the Slovenian Stability Programme for the period 2012-2016, both constitutional changes we are concluding today are particularly positive. This means that the external environment also assesses the need to place greater predictability of the conduct of all actors in the country in the highest act of the State. It is a pity that one government had to be demolished earlier so that this knowledge could also be accommodated in political groups that have so far explicitly opposed it. It has turned out to be extremely important to us which of our representatives are going on behalf of the Government in Brussels. Here, too, it has been shown that political homelessness in European ties is not an advantage, but rather an obstacle. We can say that Alenka Bratušek and her client had already made a break with their views after one visit to Brussels in just a few days, and that it did not take 70 days to do so. But despite all of this, Alenka Bratušek did not waste her time, and this sudden political conversion was, without a change in the text that we adopted, one comma itself wanted to take political advantage and adopt it. From this point of view, I find certain statements made by the President of the Government to be rather incorrect. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u9	Mr. Tanko, allow me to remind you that there is a decree on the agenda to declare constitutional law. Please leave the debate on the national programme for when it will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u10	That's what I'm talking about. We would expect the President of the Government to tell us in her performances how much such delay has cost during this period and how much more we have paid for not adopting these two amendments to the constitution in a timely manner, such as the cost of such delay. I think we should know how much the country cost this strong opposition attitude, which, as it has now proved, was clearly contrary to the country's interests. Is it 100 million, 150, 200 million, or more? Either way, it's a big expense. As we monitor the achievements of the current government in about 70 days, we cannot pass the fact that some final votes have been made on the previous government's projects during this period. Here too, we can see that the views of the President of the Government have changed substantially, but some will have to, because the warnings we have received are such. That way, I can say we're picking up on these changes. Just as we met them at the time, so we see them now. I don't think there's anything wrong with paying attention to these things. It is also clear that the 10+100 programme is becoming a stronger foundation for the work of this government. The views of the European Commission are also quite similar, even quite similar to those of the previous coalition. From the European Commission's point of view, the coalition's current coalition was largely suspended or mirrored. The identification of Mr Šuštersič, former Minister of Finance, is quite correct and on the spot. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are pleased that the process of constitutional change is being concluded today. However, I think that some more constitutional changes will have to be adopted, which are probably also imposed by the document that we have received, if anyone likes it or not, especially in the field of justice. The warnings we received from the European Commission on Wednesday are binding on Slovenia, no matter what, and the European Union's expectations are appropriate. Given that the 10+100 programme is becoming the foundation of the new government's work, I will give this booklet to the Prime Minister. What is good and what needs to be done can also be found in this book. It won't take much reading. As far as the decree is concerned, we'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tanko, for the attention you've shown. However, it was not exactly in the context of the decree we are considering today. So the warning stays. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to remind you that the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors has been concluded. We continue to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The position will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers! The Group of the Social Democrats considers today's ruling on the proclamation of the Constitutional Law amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the final act of the ongoing efforts to amend the referendum legislation. We attach to the position of the Constitutional Commission, which has drawn up a proposal for a decree and supported this proposal in articles 171 and 182 of the Rules of Procedure, stressing that it is up to us to simply vote on the decree to declare it. We believe that a fundamental substantive debate on these issues has been held much earlier. Nevertheless, let me say that we Social Democrats have announced our request to amend referendum legislation as an opposition and as a coalition party. The referendum as a form of direct decision-making between the electorate and the electorate can be defined in two ways. Firstly, by law, it means the right of all electoral beneficiaries to decide by general vote on an individual act of representative body and, secondly, from the point of view of the functioning of the State authority, means the way of participation of people in the adoption of the most important legal and political decisions, which are otherwise within the competence of the representative body. For this reason, the Social Democrats consider the referendum to be one of the forms of direct democracy or direct decision-making between citizens and citizens. However, the profession also stresses that the referendum as a way of deciding does not have a monopoly on democratic decision-making. All the advantages of democratic decision-making must be taken into account, but also the limitations that are objectively contained or arising from it. These changes are considered to follow these definitions. I will give another expert opinion from the research project Legal arrangements for the 2000 referendum and the People's Initiative: "If the referendum is to be an effective form of direct democracy, it should only be used exceptionally for the most important political issues, but it is not appropriate to decide on very difficult professional and complex issues, especially if they cannot be created with transparent and understandable alternative solutions." The amendments should limit the availability of the referendum and should not prevent the people from refusing to reject the decisions taken at the National Assembly or at the local level. This change is also what we are implementing. On the other hand, the laws adopted by the General Assembly cannot destroy a handful or a minority of all voters, and this issue is governed by quorum. More than once, it has been stressed that the provision for Social Democrats is also of paramount importance that there can be no referendums affecting human rights. We have tried to prove in the debates and convince those concerned that the right to a referendum is in an undemocratic manner limited to the fact that this right is not withdrawn and that the quorum is set so low that it will still be possible to prevent the law which most of the participants in the referendum opposes. The decision is taken by a majority in the National Assembly, and I repeat, the Social Democrats will be supported by a decree declaring constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u13	Thank you, too, for your position. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues, colleagues, welcome also on behalf of the Civil Gazette! In the Civil Gazette, we welcome both the constitutional changes that we are declaring today, and we welcome the unity that has been present within political parties throughout this constitutional review process in connection with the amendment of the legislative referendum, despite some different views. Our decision-making process has also raised concerns after the assurances of those who, in the last period on behalf of the State, borrowed money from lenders. This was the point mentioned by external observers. On a visit to Slovenia last year, the Secretary-General of the OECD said that we have a unique referendum system in Slovenia, which we have as a democratic tool, but can also hamper the democratic process of governance if it is misused. In view of our experience, I would add that it hampers the democratic process of governance even if it is too often used. In Slovenia we had on average one referendum per year. Our model was very easy to access to referendums. The key weakness of the system that makes this possible is causing instability, including political instability. Stability is still important to Slovenia today. When we tabled a proposal for this change of constitution, we did so with the knowledge that the referendum, plebiscite, in 1990 enabled us to realize the dream of our ancestors and brought us independence. For this reason, too, it was our intention to give this democratic institution a place that belongs to it, that referendums would really decide on the most important social issues and that we would raise the threshold of legitimacy. The current referendum regime allowed only a handful to decide on the fate of all. That's not democratic. With the amendment of the 90s, 97s and 99s, we believe that the area of the legislative referendum will be regulated as in most other European countries, but still adapted to our circumstances and circumstances. Therefore, the members of the National List will support the decree on the proclamation of constitutional change, while we regret the failure of our initiative last year to amend the Constitution in order to end the State Council. Even more than last year, it is clear that these 2 million euro we are earmarking to this institution would be in bloody need in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today, amendments to referendum legislation are being introduced. After many years, however, we took a step forward. What counts most, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is the fact that we have left the referendum entirely to citizens and citizens. The referendum will no longer be a tool that policy could use for everyday needs. With regard to the other changes that have also raised some dust, we are now assessing that we are now comparable to other developed democracies. This is particularly true for the adoption of legislation that forms part of a specific economic, fiscal policy. Here I particularly stress that whether in Slovenia there will be left or right, social or liberal options, it must be possible to implement its programme in the field of taxes, customs and certain other budgetary items. Then there is the citizens' assessment, and if they are not fully satisfied with this policy, they have every right to replace it in elections. Over the past few years, Members of the Slovenian People's Party have received a number of warnings about interference with the referendum regime, but at the same time a lot of questions. Citizens and citizens have asked us frankly, "Why did we choose you as Members if you put many decisions on us?" "You make decisions and we will evaluate your work later," we have often had the opportunity to hear mainly from civil society. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have already joined certain initiatives two years ago following amendments to the referendum legislation, especially after the referendums became part of the political upheaval, but we have never been in favour of restricting referendums on the basis of electoral participation. Individual freedom is also understood by anyone who wishes to remain at home at the time of the referendum. It's his right. Unfortunately, it is also our reality that many times the majority do not accept the possibility of making a decision. As a result of this right, it is not right that the absence of citizens' participation directly affects the validity of the referendum decision as required by the quorum in the referendum. With this referendum initiative, we artificially take legitimacy. Let us just imagine that this would be required for the elections as well. Would politicians then be able to face the mistrust of the people in the form of insufficient participation in elections? Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we hope that the quorum required for the rejection of the referendum law, 20% of the electoral beneficiaries who have to oppose it, will never, in future practice, be a condition for the validity of the referendum, that each of the following topics that will appear at the referendum will create sufficient responsibilities for the majority and will bring as many people as possible to the voters. Only then will the referendum remain a holiday of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well hailed, distinguished minister, distinguished ministers and ambassadors and Members of Parliament! I'll repeat the following words. Today is a solemn day in the National Assembly. A solemn day because we announce the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The DeSUS Group will support the decree on the promulgation of the Constitutional Act amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the arrangements of the Institute of the Referendum. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is, we can say, an exceptional constitution, not in the absolute sense of that word, but in relative terms. This means that the Constitution of our country cannot be changed quickly. Given its status and its scope of substantive regulation, this is certainly appropriate. The proof of the claim is precisely a change in the referendum institute. For years, not just for years, the issue of Slovenian referendum arrangements has been brought to bear. The profession has always pointed out the inadequacy of the organisation of this institute, or of the unique one in the Slovenian Constitution. The text of amendments to the Constitution in this direction has been prepared several times, but there has never been sufficient political will to adopt amendments. In the context of the resolution of atypical referendum arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia, a great deal of efforts have been made by political parties, constitutional experts and the public concerned. I take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of the entire Parliamentary Group and the DeSUS, all those who have contributed in any way to the fact that today we have the opportunity to announce an amendment to the Constitution which places the referendum on the seat of the Constitutional Infad. In the DeSUS Group, from the very beginning of the constitutional change procedure, we have advocated a position that we agree with the objective and purpose of this constitutional change and that it does not constitute a restriction on citizens' rights as some wish to show. Mainly, by adopting this constitutional amendment, we have limited the abuse of this institution, as the referendum is only to the politicians. Although today's hearing is intended to announce the already adopted amendments to the Constitution, let me reiterate that we are giving the legislative referendum adequate legitimacy and a place in our democratic regulation of the legislative branch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Since the list of discussers has been substantially amended, allow me to briefly read the names of those Members and Members who will discuss it in order to make it easier for you to prepare yourself for the debate. They will discuss: Mr Jakob Presječnik, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Borut Ambrožič, Mr Franz Pukšič, mag. Majda Potrate, Mr Jože Tanko, and as a proponent, Mrs Maša Kociper. I give my word to Mr. Jakob the Presecnik and prepare yourself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable ministers, ministers and others present, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I support the adoption of a decision amending the constitutional provisions of the referendum. I have supported and actively participated in the work of the Constitutional Commission and in the coordination before, as well as the Group of Members, but unfortunately there has never been sufficient support. I must say that, despite the opposition to the work of civil society and also some non-parliamentary political parties, the fact that we have always heard a clear comment in the course of the various meaningless referendums in the past that those who are called and responsible should also do their work and not postpone decisions and responsibilities to voters. I have one small, bitter comment. Given that you did not need us yesterday to declare that Members and Members are refusing to call for a referendum or a request for a referendum to amend the Constitution, I suppose you will need us to make a number of decisions, especially unpopular decisions, especially when you do not reach a full consensus in the coalition. As a constructive opposition, we have proved this several times in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u21	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues, sincere congratulations on our success! I am absolutely aware that this step would not have been successful if this part of the hall were to sit in government ranks — that is, one time. Perhaps the merger with the authorities has also brought about referendum changes, and thus the political space in Slovenia is improving and clearing up. New Slovenia has never acted politically. We have always worked for the good of the countries and have paid a high price on many occasions. Even today and now there has been a lot of pressure on us to change our position and adjust it if you are now in the opposition, why would you give up the very powerful weapon you have against the coalition. We said that we would simply insist on what we think is good for the country, even though it may now go to our detriment. Like colleagues in the SLS, we in Novi Slovenija regret that the coalition seemed self-sufficient that if we have come together so far, we have brought constitutional changes to this point in some way with the common powers, but now we are completely out of commission, and no one has asked us in Novi Slovenija and our colleagues in the SLS if we would contribute co-signatures so that this meeting can happen today. Obviously you calculated and calculated that you have enough with your colleagues from SDS and that you simply don't need us. It's a nice, simple gesture that would cost you absolutely nothing, but it would mean a lot to our common goal. But anyway, that's what you've decided to do, and that also tells you what you think about further cooperation. Much has been said about the referendum regime so far. I think it is clear to everyone in the country or at least the quiet majority in the country that the current referendum regime has not been good. There are 80 initiatives and only 20 referendums that have been implemented. This is also evidenced by a very low voter participation. Something had to be done. What did we do? We took the referendum into the hands of politicians and put it in the hands of people only. I think and stress that this is a step in the right direction. I'm sure it'll be easier for the current government, and I hope and I want the opportunities it has with this change not to abuse and exploit. To conclude, I will only ask that all citizens and citizens take advantage of the most important referendum every four years – the elections – and that at this referendum they will say over and over again what they think about the state in the country and which direction this country should go. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u23	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! For the 11th and 12th time, we are changing the Constitution after 22 years of the independent state. I'm not on the side to congratulate myself on this and say it's some big act. Americans have over 200 years old constitution, and I'm sure they haven't changed it that often or that they don't change it, and their economic situation is different. However, with a change in this area, in this segment, the referendum segment, where 20% of voters will need to vote against a decision if they want the matter to be rejected, we may also raise some more responsibility for citizens and citizens themselves. Unfortunately, they can say very critical things many times, but they don't go to a place where they have to make decisions. It's the right thing to do. I hope that this will also mean a positive shift when they decide who will represent them in the country. However, I am pleased, and here I can tell you that those of you who are in power today who have changed your position solely because of your authority, but not because of the content, because of the people and the state, but because of your authority – as the first lady of power, President of the Government, has said recently – I wish you much further wisdom to do so several times. We won't blame you. But at least when you're in power, show you something for the country. Unfortunately, when you were in the opposition, you didn't have that wisdom. I will support these changes, as the Group of Members has announced. Finally, I join the two predecessors, my colleague the President and my colleague Tonin. Colleagues and colleagues, even when opposition, small parties, are not needed, there is nothing wrong with asking them — a good gesture — but not just when you need them when it comes to each voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u25	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We Social Democrats have contributed 10 signatures to convene this extraordinary meeting, thereby guaranteeing and guaranteeing that we will not request a referendum. It seems to us that this has also reduced the time during which a referendum request can be submitted. This is the last time that policy could apply for a referendum. These referendum changes take that right away from her, and the Social Democrats seem to be doing the right thing. In the referendum initiatives, the Social Democrats have never been among those who would have thought that such policy decisions should be used too often. So far, the 15 subsequent legislative referendums we witnessed in Slovenia were so arranged that there were 5 in 2003 and 7 in 2010 and 7 in 2012. There were as many as 12 of them during the period of the position of the largest opposition party, and they were also the largest opposition party at that time. It seems to us that the possibility of investing in a policy referendum has now been taken away, while the same number of signatures collected by the people, 40,000, has been preserved so that the referendum can be carried out. It is important that this option remains and that there is also a quorum for when the referendum outcome is valid. I have already mentioned in the opinion of the Group that we will support the proclamation of the decree. That's what I'm gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u27	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Jozet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that whenever we deal with the issues of the referendum, more or less the constant targeting of certain manipulations as to who misused something when requesting a referendum, and even such manipulations as to avoid telling the facts who requested them, with virtually everything that was described being written out by the National Assembly and everything that exists in the archives of the National Assembly. Almost every discussion of our members of the National Assembly, which are on the opposite side of the political space, shows us that we have abused and do not know what else about these referendum requirements. We didn't. Indeed, all the requirements for the referendum and all the referendums signed were in accordance with the constitutional basis and rules, the legal basis applied so far to the invitation to a referendum. It is also clear to us that we have requested referendums on the reforms of the previous government. We didn't. We didn't contribute a single signature to that. However, after there was no agreement with the social partners, we supported the referendum decision of the social partners in this process. It was the unions that brought down the key reforms of the Pahor government. I think that this should be corrected in the debates. The minimum is to look at the file of the National Assembly, look at who has filed something, what has requested, and on this basis an reasoned debate can then be held. I didn't agree to manipulate these things and try to make an impression that someone had abused something. There will also be no future abuse of the referendum, as it has not been possible so far, but the referendum will be called if the conditions for the referendum are met, or as regards the number of signatures, the collection process or the admissibility of the content for the referendum. It will be no different than it was before, just limit itself to part of the policy and to part of the content of the referendum decision-making option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u29	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the President of the Constitutional Commission, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u30	Thank you. Very briefly. The adoption of a decree proclaiming a constitutional law means the final act of adopting a constitutional amendment. This is supposed to be a solemn, important and beautiful event, so I would invite my colleagues to continue, in the next decision, not to use this debate for political revelations, political games, but to respectfully and appropriately upgrade this moment, which rarely happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u31	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate and concludes that no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the motion for a decree today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of item 2 of the agenda or no later than 12.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision declaring a constitutional act amending Amendment 148. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 32nd extraordinary meeting on 24 May 2013, the National Assembly adopted the Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law no later than 8 days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for confirmation to the electorate at the referendum. The request for a referendum will not be submitted as 74 Members and Members informed me in writing that they would not require the amendment of the Constitution to be submitted for approval to voters at the referendum. Therefore, the National Assembly may announce the Constitutional Act amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law of the National Assembly shall be proclaimed by the adoption of a decree on a declaration. The draft decree was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u32	Dear colleagues! On behalf of the Constitutional Commission, before the first promulgation of the decision amending the Constitution, I laid down the legal basis for the adoption of this decision, so that, if I may, I would not return to it. However, I would list another group of experts, which I had previously forgotten by mistake, and I apologize to her. They also participated in the process of amending the Constitution: Tone Jerovšek, Dr. Igor Kaučič, Dr. Janez Pogorlec, Dr. Cyril Ribičič, Dr. Lois Ude, Dr. Miro Cerar and Dr. Matej Avbelj. Thank you all very much for participating in this important project. May I continue on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u33	At this point, allow me to inform the National Assembly that, following these introductory presentations, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members is in order. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u34	Also in the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we understand the adoption of the decision in particular as the final stage of the adoption of amendments to the Constitution, but not as an opportunity to reopen the political debates we have already held on these issues in the past. It seems important to us that we may all repeat together the substance of the constitutional changes adopted. In amending Article 148, the so-called fiscal rule is the most important thing for us in Positive Slovenia to ensure that people do not have to be afraid of this constitutional change. Nothing bad is going to happen just by entering this change into the constitution. The constitutional law only refers to the need for medium-term balance of public finances. All other derogations can be settled in the implementing law. Therefore, it cannot, in itself, signify a reduction in salaries, pensions and social benefits. The important difference between those that we have made in adopting this constitutional amendment on the one hand or on the other is just how soon we imagine that there will be consolidation of our public finances. Obviously, we have all been unanimous all along in the fact that consolidation is necessary and must come to it. However, we differ by whether it should occur in swifter, more radical steps or more gradually. As you know, in Positive Slovenia we are in the position that consolidation is necessary and that it can be carried out gradually over a period of 5 to 8 years, while preserving the principle of social state and solidarity. By entering the Constitution, as we have said, we have also fulfilled the promise made to Europe by the previous Presidents of the governments, Mr Janša and Mr Pahor, and thus have shown that, as a country, we are credible and capable of fulfilling the commitments we make to the communities. Let me say that historically Slovenians as a nation are obviously the strongest and most complex in the most difficult situations of our history. This strengthens me and us in Positive Slovenia in this case in the hope and conviction that this time we will also overcome problems in the financial and economic field and recognize the crisis as an opportunity. There is sufficient knowledge and skills in our country, but the right goals must be set, and each one of us must do his job responsibly, especially professionally. Only the professional, responsible and fair conduct of all, including representatives of authorities and representatives of institutions, will restore confidence in the rule of law and its institutions and ensure the normal life of its citizens. I conclude by thinking that the two-thirds majority at the time of the adoption of the Constitution again and again means the need for great and medium-term policy consensus. This majority means that the change must be confirmed by representatives of the various political options. Therefore, change every time again means exceeding political divisions to the left and right, ours and yours, and the victory of reason. Positive Slovenia has once again shown that it is capable of dividing into the good of our people and our country. It is politically best to dig into each other's trenches, convince their own voters of their right and insist on each other's position without the slightest deviation. But that kind of policy that takes the country hostage leads us to the situation we're in. In Positive Slovenia we do not agree to such a policy. All those — and I think so — who you want will always be able to find in us a constructive interlocutor prepared for dialogue, provided that the solutions are in the interest of the State, its people and the common progress. "Politics, incompetent agreements, is exceeded," said the Prime Minister of the Government, and in Positive Slovenia we wish this were true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party is a party of principle and has not changed its position on the entry of the fiscal rule, not after it has become the biggest opposition party of the government. It is important that he has overcome reason and that a fiscal rule has been adopted. The last of the five reforms of the government of Janez Janša was established by entering a fiscal rule into the Constitution. Slovenia has sent a positive signal to foreign countries by entering the fiscal rule and has gained additional confidence in international markets and international institutions. The inclusion of fiscal rules in the Constitution leads to moderation, rationality and deliberate action in the future. The fiscal rule should be in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular because it is the only protection and security, not the left, not the middle, nor the right government of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be in enormous debt. The entry of a fiscal rule does not exclude the social state and does not exclude solidarity, but excludes unreasonable indebtedness at excessive interest rates and excludes the burden of high interest and the transfer of debts to future generations. The limitation of excessive indebtedness saves Slovenian salaries and Slovenian pensions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that we can only spend as much on a long-term basis as we create and that the management of public finances is essential for the functioning of each country. We are aware that debt without economic growth leads in the long term to a loss of sovereignty and a breakdown of the social state, with the highest price paid by people with little wealth and little privilege. We are aware that in the past, we have come off the right path with irrational decisions, thereby threatening our future and the future of our children. Still, there is a bitter taste that we have lost more than a year by entering a fiscal rule into the constitution. With this, the taxpayers and Slovenia paid a high price. By entering a fiscal rule into the Constitution, the current government will have all the conditions to take the measures that are necessary and already adopted by most European countries. It is quite clear that no European country has emerged from the crisis in a way that makes the economy even more burdensome. The right path is quite the opposite – first of all, it is necessary to lower costs and enable the economy to breathe, as this brings more revenue. Time is not an ally of Slovenia. From word to word, we'll have to move on to action. In conclusion, the entry of a fiscal rule is not politics but a state-of-the-art act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Dr Ljubica Jelusic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, the Slovenian Constitution is being definitively amended by a provision whereby we join those European countries that have already enshrined the golden fiscal rule in their constitutions. This process of change took place last year and is expected to be completed by the end of this year. Then we will see to what extent 25 countries parties to the fiscal pact will actually respect their implementing acts, their constitutions and other high laws. Perhaps we or the next generation of politicians will find out to what extent the golden fiscal rule has actually contributed to their financial situation and also to non-indebtedness at the expense of other Member States. The fiscal rule – the balance of revenue and expenditure in total public spending – is a principle that must always be respected in budget planning. The State's practice of incurring debt when revenue into the budget is too small for all public needs. In the years of economic growth and wealth, we are not even aware of the fiscal rule, and in the years of crisis, we have a vicious knock on the doors of every budget and every balance. Slovenia also has a period of growth, but the increased revenue flows to the budget have unfortunately not been used for a gold reserve for worse times. From the second half of 2008 onwards, the word crisis is used more frequently in Europe than economic growth. That's the way it is in Slovenia. Social Democrats are aware that we will all have much to sacrifice to get us out of the crisis as Europe and as Slovenia. We are aware that dignity will only be restored to us when there is enough work for all, educated and less educated. We Social Democrats opposed the inclusion of a fiscal rule in the Constitution with such a form or content as was confirmed last week by the two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. Even today, we believe that the provisions of last year's ratified treaty on the fiscal pact could be introduced into the Constitution and the law in a way that would allow for a gradual balance of public finances and would not pose a threat in the form of more acute interventions into social transfers, public health, public education, social protection and other public needs. The adoption of a decree declaring the Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a legal consequence of that decision adopted in the National Assembly. Although we were Social Democrats against the inclusion of the fiscal rule in the constitution, a week ago we accepted the vote as a fact and we respect such a decision. That is why we have contributed all 10 of our signatures to today's extraordinary meeting, and thus have shown that we have no intention whatsoever to oppose the decision of the majority. On the basis of this and taking into account all our past actions on this issue in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not object to the adoption of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u39	Thank you, too, for presenting your position. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u40	Thanks again for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Today we are carrying out the final act of amending Article 148 of the Constitution. Over the last year and a half, there's been a lot of spilled ink and words about fiscal rule, probably even too much. Now we must move from words to actions and move forward in order to put our public finances in order. It will not be easy, it will take a lot of wisdom, courage and responsibility both in the government and in the Member States. The main gain of this constitutional amendment is that we have also been given the opportunity to sanction the violators of the treaty if we refer to the constitution as a social contract. The entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule will make it possible to use instruments that have not yet been made available, namely the instrument of constitutional judgement and constitutional charges. The constitutional level dictates the highest level of compliance by policy. Fiscal discipline will, in our opinion, contribute to higher economic growth by maintaining low interest rates on the budget and the economy. The fiscal rule will further avoid drastic fiscal consolidation measures in the following economic crises. Finally, this sustainability will force our policies to place accounts for our appetites after greater public consumption immediately, with new or higher existing taxes. The burden of over-consumption will thus no longer be bearable to our children. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that by placing fiscal rules in the Constitution we are voting for more social states. This would inevitably be less if we continued the policy of borrowing and paying high interest from the state budget. In 2009, we spent 300 million euros on interest; this year we are approaching billions of euros. If we behave more responsibly in the past, we today would have a billion more at our disposal to devote it to research, innovation, scholarships or social measures. This is the reason why we have been in the Civil Code, since we have been a parliamentary party, supporting the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. We still have the law of enforcement. Let's not forget we already coordinated it last summer. Let it be more successful this year and more fruitful. We don't have time to wait for instructions from Brussels. We know what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u41	Thank you, too, for presenting your position. Allow me to inform all Members and Members of Parliament before I give the floor to Mr Michael Prevc that a motion for a procedural motion will be proposed for a vote to be taken without a 15-minute suspension of the sitting before the vote. Therefore, I ask the heads of the parliamentary groups and the experts of the parliamentary groups to inform your colleagues that a procedural proposal is envisaged on the basis of which they would decide, immediately after the conclusion of the second item on the agenda. Thank you for your attention. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u42	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! Today, Slovenia would not need a fiscal rule if it has proved itself to be responsible for its public finances over the past few years. It is true that in the years of high economic conjuncture, we have not prepared ourselves for a period when worse times will come. Thus, the response to the economic crisis in 2009, after it took place, was practically minor. The artificial maintenance of the current situation in the coming years, which did not have a basis in our economic activities, but in foreign credits, has only led us in a few years from a model member of the euro group with a virtually minimum level of public debt to the situation when we are shaking tomorrow. Therefore, the fiscal rule – that such a thing will never happen again, that our budgetary revenue and expenditure for a certain medium-term period will be balanced and that no policy in the future will maintain a false hope and show a situation that does not come to reality because of its own interests. We have repeatedly said that no one has the right to be indebted to our children, our grandchildren, because they are the ones who will be paying for our financial errors. How important this constitutional record has been to us in recent days a number of responses from all parts of the world. In the light of our commitment to all our promises to our country, they look quite differently. The fiscal rule imposes a heavy responsibility that must be assumed by both coalition and opposition parties. However, the matter has not yet been fully concluded. We have before us the creation and adoption of an implementing law. We will also be closely monitored by the outside public. If anyone thinks that, through the implementing rule, at least in the short term, the provisions of the constitutional fiscal rule can be played out, he is likely to be wrong. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that experts associated with the expert group will soon start working, and we will soon do this important part of the task in autumn. It is not wrong for a person to misjudge the situation, but progress is by openly admitting it and correcting his mistake. In the Slovenian People’s Party, we appreciate such recognition. The fiscal rule could have been adopted in the past year and it is very likely that we would have enjoyed more confidence as a country in the international community. But it's better late than never. Slovenia has some projects that have been launched in a similar way as a fiscal rule, but we are very clear and clearly expected to carry them out to the end. A law to stabilise the banking system needs to be put in motion. The Slovenian state holding company still exists only on paper. In the Slovenian People's Party, we hope that in this area, like the fiscal rule, he will overcome reason and not political prestige, and that we will really do what is best for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All present once again welcome! At the 1st item of the agenda of today’s session, I said that it was a solemn day in the National Assembly. I add that it is a special honour for Members and Members of the DeSUS to attend this solemn event when we announce amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, amendments to the articles defining the Institute of the Referendum and the introduction of the fiscal rule. We supported the introduction of the fiscal rule into the Constitution in the DeSUS Group because we assessed that the introduction of this rule into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the way to tackle the budgetary deficit and public debt. We cannot deal with this change completely separately, but together with a package of measures that have already been sent to Brussels, to which we have already received a response. The message in this response is that we are on the right track in Slovenia and that so far amendments to the laws and other measures have been adopted to take a step in the right direction leading to an exit from the crisis – this should be added when implementing the 9 points they have written down in Brussels. Even if today we confirm the proclamation of a constitutional amendment concerning the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution, I cannot go beyond the responses of our policy to Brussels' response. Here I am primarily referring to the statement made by the Minister of Finance that there will also be a need to cut into pensions, which has, in fact, been a very negative surprise to us. As we discussed the introduction of the fiscal rule into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we stressed in the DeSUS Group that this entry should not lead to the collapse of the social state. Back then, we made a clear position and announced that we were advocating that there would be no interference in the area of social and pensions. We insist on doing so today. The fact is that the average pension below the minimum wage and below the poverty threshold is EUR 587 per month. Once again, the average pension is now below the minimum wage and below the poverty threshold. So from this city, from this pay phone, I urge someone to answer the question: How many cuts can a pensioner endure? The question is also addressed to all of you. Could you survive with that amount? Especially when a person is suffering from a disease or is forced to land in an old age home. So consider, members of the government, what measures you're predicting. The Minister's statement exclaims that pensioners have done absolutely nothing at this time to contribute to our society or to the welfare of our society and to ensure their social security. Pensions have been saved for many years – from the freezing of 2010 to the reduced annual allowance, not to mention that pensions have been falling since 2001. To return to the content, to consider the decree declaring the entry of the Golden Rule into the Constitution. The DeSUS Group does not oppose the introduction of a fiscal rule, but once again we stress that this rule cannot and cannot mean the collapse of the social state. We will be absolutely opposed to this intention in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u46	Your Honor! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the Proposal for a Decree proclaiming the Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as amended, means the recording of a fiscal rule in the highest legal act. In this way, we fulfil the commitment made by the Fiscal Pact Treaty. With the fiscal pact, like the rest of the signatory countries, we have committed ourselves to fiscal discipline. In the National Assembly this constitutional change was voted by a high degree of political consensus, and in New Slovenia we welcome such a consensus. In particular, I would stress that the writing of the fiscal rule into the Constitution is important because it is one of the positive signals sent by Slovenia to the international community. It is a message that the balance of public finances is an important value that falls within the hierarchical highest legal act and cannot be breached in practice. It was precisely due to the adoption of both constitutional amendments, the fiscal rule and the referendum that the European Commission's assessment was quite positive for us. We can argue that the opposition, which insisted on a change of constitution as soon as possible, has made a significant contribution. Under the fiscal rule adopted, the revenue and expenditure of the country covered by its budgets must be balanced or may amount to a maximum annual deficit of up to 0,5 % of GDP. If a deficit occurs beyond this limit in any year, this deficit must be covered by the surpluses of other years, either by surpluses created in the past or by surpluses to be created in the future. Since it is not realistic to expect the country to have a fully balanced budget each year, the amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution also allows for exceptions. This exception is linked to the concept of special circumstances. These may be unforeseen events, such as natural or other accidents, where resources must be provided to remedy damage, help people and so on. Another special situation is the economic period we have now – the economic crisis. Despite the economic crisis, which will obviously continue, we must strive to balance public finances as soon as possible. Without saving and denying and promoting the economy of this objective, we will not achieve it, no matter when we set it, for 2015 or 2017. Some political parties would like to delay these painful measures as much as possible. In Novi Slovenija, we are always committed to implementing the fiscal rule as soon as possible in the financial year 2015. We are aware that every cut is in wages, pensions and, above all, social benefits, pain, but such measures are necessary if we are to maintain sovereignty in the public financial field. That is why, at a time when we were a government party, as well as now that we are an opposition party, we supported measures to reduce public finances. A number of rapid and decisive steps will be needed to balance the budget, and New Slovenia predicts further support for this effort. We expect the burden of the crisis to be evenly distributed among all social groups. At the same time, the government must pay particular attention to the fact that the measures adopted will not interfere with the wealthiest social strata and increase social distress and poverty rates. This is exactly what we will pay special attention to in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u47	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. I give my word to Mr. Franz Bogovich, but prepare yourself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u48	Thank you. Nice greetings, distinguished presidents, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party and myself, I personally welcome that we have managed this effort in Slovenia and have changed the Slovenian Constitution in this part too, so that we want to have a structured public finances. I am glad that, in addition to being able to contribute our 6 votes, we also had a connecting note in the part where the two biggest parties wanted to share the blame for the failure a good month ago. I am glad that all in the National Assembly have been overpowered by reason. Regrettably, that reason did not prevail in the past year. I think it is right to say that one year late and four billion euros in expensive loans will cost us between €40 million and €60 million per year or between €100 and 150 000 per day over the next 10 years. So much so that we can imagine what our decisions or indecisive decisions in the National Assembly mean. We have a very responsible half a year, half a year to see how serious we are today and how serious we were on Monday. We need to adopt an implementing law in which we will write down the rules, in which we will also agree on possible deviations from the fiscal rule. We must also agree on the necessary majority, and I now predict that we will insist in the Slovenian People's Party that such decisions always require a two-thirds, constitutional majority, and I hope that there will be enough wisdom. The government has a very difficult task – to prepare an exact budget rebalancing and, as a result, adopt measures to achieve what we are now writing into the Slovenian Constitution. We talk a lot about sustainable development in society, and we also talk a lot about sustainable development. I think we are increasingly aware of the need for sustainable use of natural resources, from air, water and all other raw materials, to food and so on, and something similar today in the area of finance. We want to have sustainable finances so that, as has already been said today, we spend as much as we create. Today it has already been said that we have not been the most successful in the past years, that this does not go forward and that a thorough blinding must be done in our heads. We are also talking about giving the Republic of Slovenia a perspective by entering this rule. We give perspective to our children, who are in kindergartens and schools, we give perspective to farmers in the fields, craftsmen in their workshops, factory workers, owners of businesses who decide to be entrepreneurs today. We give perspective to foreign investors that they will see a perspective in Slovenia in contrast to the last year. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we do not provide these groups with a perspective, then it is free to say that we will not lower wages, that we will have a social state, that we will have health care, that we will have bearable pensions. We are talking about putting society on balance, which will require solidarity. I don't think it's a good place for a cock-up today that a group won't be involved in. We will all have to cooperate and in the next six months we will show whether there is sufficient understanding in the Slovenian political space and in our society to be able to do what we have written today. This is what I want, and we will all Members of the Slovenian People's Party in this constructive way, as we have done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u49	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Matthew Tonin, prepare yourself for Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u50	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fiscal rule is in its essence a very simple matter — as much as we create, we can spend as much. With our decision today, we have done a great service to future generations because we will not impose our burdens on future generations. The decisions that will follow the fiscal rule will be unpleasant, but so it is. We can only hope and wish that someone from a time perspective and history back will see that something good was done then, and that taking was absolutely necessary. At this moment of celebration, I do not want to put anyone in an awkward situation, but I really must congratulate Positive Slovenia for changing my position, and this is certainly the case. You know that before that we have listened to everything – about the 30% reduction in pensions, which is why he was put into an awkward situation by DeSUS, which still has to be defended today. We have also heard that in Positive Slovenia they will never adopt a fiscal rule with the 2015 anniversary, but in spite of everything this story has happened and has a happy breakup. As I said before, and I am speaking now, this change would certainly not have occurred if our government had not left power. This is just an addition, an additional conclusion that surprises how quickly you can change your attitude, and that you are not embarrassed about these things. But this thing and these things are completely irrelevant today. The key thing is that we will not impose additional burdens on future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u51	Thank you. I give my word to Mr Franz Puksic, Mr Bevk alone is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, they still do not support a change in the fiscal rule, and today they say they will not oppose it. Of course not, because they have 10 Members. If they were 30, they'd use their power, but that's history. The fact is that it was when the Social Democrats led the country that they made more than €8 billion of losses, and they still do not want to admit that they are in the government with a fig in their pocket where it brought us. I am pleased, as I mentioned earlier, that in Positive Slovenia they have come to their senses and confessed their sins, and I expect them to do so several more times. Regarding the time when colleague Masha Kociper explained how the big circle did not go into the small circle — that was last autumn. Now she even invented the formula that big goes into small, but it cost us too much. This cost us almost half a billion dollars to rent loans over the next 10 years, just for interest. This costs us today more than 2% of the higher interest rate for entrepreneurs, which is a reduction in the environment for the economy, and this is a price for citizens and citizens to raise VAT. That's what this government brought. Now they're happy to say what they've done. If we were a little, at least a little modest, we would say, "Thank you to the previous government that it has prepared all this, we will also implement the holding company and the bad bank, as the European Commission has charged us, and we will also accept the classification in state-owned companies," not as you are now coming up with some loose ends. I'll support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u53	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u54	Your Honor! Since I was mentioned by my name and surname, I have to give a replica because I was obviously misunderstood. Mr Pukšič, you obviously didn't understand that I already knew that it would take time to get a lot of debt and a lot of spending into a small debt and a small amount of spending. You obviously don't understand that right now. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u55	Thanks for the extra explanation. I give my word to Mr. Sam Bevk, get ready for Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u56	Just for a little while. Mr President, thank you for the floor. A respected choir! None of the fiscal rules enshrined in the Constitution will help if we do not all together, but, above all, the Government, launch economic development in such a way that it will not be a questionable revenue side of the state budget and also the charging of the tax box. That is why I appeal to the Government to help everywhere where companies in Slovenia have long-term programmes, contracts concluded, and they lack funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u57	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Dr Ljubica Jelusic, and then it will be the President of the Constitutional Commission, Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. There are three things I'd like to point out. In such solemn moments as today’s changing constitution, we tend to talk about the positive or the gold things that we change. Some remain silent, and we prefer not to mention negative ones. Under the fiscal rule, I would like to point out that it has a silenced side, which is hidden in the actual record in the fiscal pact, why a fiscal rule should be introduced into the constitution or the constitution of comparable laws of the 25 states signatories to the fiscal pact. This is that by 1 January 2014, countries that do not introduce this rule into their constitution will not meet the basic condition for granting aid under the European Stability Mechanism. We must be aware that what we are doing today, in the future, is opening the way for possible financial assistance if our country needs it. Secondly, there is considerable talk that past policies have been responsible for the indebtedness and over-indebtedness of our country. It seems good to be more specific when it comes to these past policies. This policy was also part of the composition of the National Assembly in the past. I think it is good to know in the fiscal rule that this is implemented through laws and, above all, the law on the implementation of the budget. In those decisions, we, as the National Assembly, which exercises control over the functioning of the executive branch, must pay attention not only to our own words, but also to the fact that the revenue and expenditure in the budget are recorded as balanced. Thirdly, several debaters have already drawn attention to the importance of the implementing law to be drawn up and adopted in the coming months. Several discussers and some commentators have suggested in recent days that the government will try to mislead Europe in the wake of the Brussels messages to our stability programme. I would like to point out that me and the Social Democrats will pay full attention to how this implementing law will emerge and at what pace it will exercise our responsibilities with regard to the fiscal rule and the balance of our finances in the future. We will do this in the wake of the fact that defrauding Europe means deceiving ourselves and our future generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u60	Your Honor! In view of the fact that the colleague was the last debater, and given the fact that, following the timetable agreed on, it is envisaged that the vote will take place 15 minutes after the end of the debate, I propose a procedural decision to proceed with the vote immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u61	Thank you. In accordance with Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the chairman may, on your proposal, provide that the vote shall take place immediately after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. I lay down that the vote will take place immediately after item 2 of the agenda. Before the debate is fully concluded, I also give the floor to the President of the Constitutional Commission, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u62	I conclude with an explanation that today's change and what we're going to enter into the constitution means only the entry of a new principle into our constitution. Our Constitution thus incorporates the principle of public financial discipline and the balance of public finances. Unfortunately, because of many facts and also many mistakes in the past, our country has not been able to cover even basic obligations, such as pensions and public sector salaries, without debt. This is a sad fact, and the sad fact is that for a few years we will depend on foreign markets and their loans of money, and thus on the conditions they will lay. The inclusion of this principle in the Constitution is therefore important and, in particular, an important signal to the international markets, as many have already found before me. Finally, I would just like to stress that the Constitutional Court will always weigh this principle in comparison with other principles, such as the principle of the social state and other principles to which our Constitution is bound. Therefore, the entry of a fiscal rule does not in itself mean any concrete consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-31-SDZ6-Izredna-37.ana.u63	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. At the same time, I note that no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decision. We will decide on the motion for a decision as soon as we have agreed on the basis of a procedural proposal. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We move to a vote on agenda 1st. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree proclaiming the Constitutional Act amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with paragraph 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree proclaiming the Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. At the same time, I inform the members of the College that the College will begin at 12.05 p.m. Thank you for your attention and goodbye.
