ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Borut Ambrožič, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Richard Braniselj. I welcome all those present in the hall. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the law on amendments and amendments to the reverse law. At its 1st extraordinary meeting on 11 March 2013, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the law on amendments and amendments to the trade law. To explain the Council's request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Aloise Kovška.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u2	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 1st extraordinary session. 3. On the basis of the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted at its 11th regular meeting on 5 March 2013, adopted a request, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law. Allow me to give you an explanation of the State Council. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 11th session. 3. 2013 passed the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law, the key objective of which is to change compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia to voluntary membership. The proposal to abolish compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia is submitted on the basis of a referendum carried out in the form of a membership on 25 April 2012, as explained by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The decision of the current management of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise on the implementation of the referendum on the form of membership in the OSCE was based on the commitment in the coalition contract, the Treaty on Slovenia 2012-2015, which stated that compulsory membership should be maintained only in those chambers where membership in the referendum is expressed on this subject, and on the preparation of amendments to the referendum legislation which provided for substantial changes in the conditions for the validity of the referendum results. For the referendum, a minimum participation of at least 35 to 40 % should be established. 18.16% of all electoral beneficiaries attended the consultation referendum on the form of membership in the OSCE. In view of the proposed amendments to the referendum legislation, such a referendum would not apply at all. A small part of all membership voted for voluntary membership, namely 6,448 members of a total of 51 thousand 318 members. Therefore, the Council of State considered that changes to the Commercial Law on the basis of such referendum will could not be justified. Allow me to explain a few key arguments for compulsory membership in the Chamber, which was accepted by the State Council. First of all, full representation. If the Chamber is to be a partner of the State with regard to the design of the economic system and economic policy, then the principle of representativeness and equality requires that all entities, members in an institutionalised manner, have a possible impact on decisions to represent the position of the entire economy, united in the Chamber. This means the impact through elected representatives of the management structures of the Chamber. Certainly it would not be acceptable if exclusiveness were to form a position of members, that is, economies left to a group of strong enough economic operators, for example, to organise themselves in a chamber as a shareholder company or some other association that is not representative, and to fight only for their partial interests. This argument is even more important for crafts and small businesses, because they cannot represent their own interests or be a self-sustaining, equal partner to the state. Secondly, equality in benefits and burdens. The principles of representativeness and equality also mean that all members are equally involved in the benefits and also in the burdens of the Chamber. It is unacceptable that non-members also benefit from the benefits offered indirectly to them by developing services in the interests of the economy as a whole. With regard to equality in burdens where certain solidaritys have been established greater to less, the membership contribution is determined by the economic strength of the member, undertaking or espionage, depending on the number of employees. Third time, professional independence. The Public Participation Model Chamber is a mechanism to create balanced requests for members, as it does not have to be afraid of leaving members who would oppose these decisions because of short-term commercial and other interests and would once again be members of the Chamber, not once again. Since my time is up, allow only that the chamber needs mandatory membership so that it can build material and human resources infrastructure. In view of the historical aspect, it must be said that the Chamber [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The request of the Council of State was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Representative of the Council of State and also President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, colleague and colleague! At its 26th emergency meeting on 26 March this year, the Committee of the Economy considered the request of the Council of State to decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law submitted to the Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 11th meeting on 5 March this year. The Committee was provided with the following material: the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the position of the Chamber of Commerce and the opinion of the Government. Representatives and representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Legal and Legal Services, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia attended the Committee. In its opening remarks, the rapporteur of the State Council explained the request of the State Council for re-decision and presented in detail the key arguments for compulsory membership in the Chamber. The State Secretary of the Ministry further presented the reasons why the Government considers that the law under consideration is appropriate. In doing so, he stressed that the Government’s basic leadership in preparing the law under consideration was to take into account the outcome of the consultative referendum at the level of the craftsmen’s assembly system. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in the supplementary explanation of the opinion that the statements of the Council of State in the request relate to questions relating to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the arrangements to which the service cannot be defined on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, representative and representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia took part in the discussion, explaining the reasons why the Chamber supports the proposed arrangement. A representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also took part in the discussion, which considered that the members of the Chamber were those who should say what kind of organisation was appropriate and stressed that the Chamber does not object to the content of the law under consideration. The views of the members and members of the Committee on the appropriateness of the law under consideration and the introduction of voluntary membership differed. Advocates of voluntary membership considered that the will of the members expressed in the consultation referendum should be taken into account and the importance of the existence of the constituency system as a representative representative of the Government was stressed by the proponents of compulsory membership. The debate also pointed out that the issue in question should be addressed primarily in terms of the impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the creation of new jobs. Following the discussion, the Committee, with a majority of the votes of all members, 10 and 2 against, adopted an opinion that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you, too, to the chairman of the committee. Does the government's representative want to give an explanation for the government's opinion? He does. I give the word "magic." Urošu Rožić, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Council of State! As mentioned earlier today, the basis for amending the Commercial Law was the outcome of a consultation referendum in which 69.3% of those who came to vote in the referendum also voted in a voluntary form of membership. Through constructive cooperation, the Ministry and the Government have managed to coordinate all matters in the amendment of the law with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, with the exception of the issue of the abolition of compulsory membership. Notwithstanding the evidence, it should be pointed out that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry retains the status of a legal person of public law. This arrangement will not create a specific form of economic interest association, nor will it create any private group that will realize only the partial interests of individuals or groups. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry is by law a representative of crafts and small entrepreneurship in Slovenia. The craftsmen will continue to pursue their interests through elected representatives of the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the bodies of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. The amendment of the law in the field of cross-border service provision also fills a multi-annual legal void which allowed foreign service providers to operate in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia without fulfilling any qualification conditions. This is of exceptional importance because these public powers are given through the new Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which will also register foreigners who will want to engage in trade activities in Slovenia in the trade register with us or for those for whom a certain entry condition is required, also to verify compliance with these conditions. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry will also continue to exercise a number of public powers, which will not be subject to compulsory membership in the Chamber and will therefore have to give these powers to all craftsmen. The amendment of the law also adds the possibility that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise will also carry out its funding through the State budget, which the current law does not allow it to do. The law also regulates the property of regional trade chambers which would for various reasons cease to operate. In this case, it is defined as a legal transfer of assets either to the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, or to another Chamber of Commerce and Industry, or to the local community, subject to the additional condition that the local community uses this property to develop craft and entrepreneurship. However, the law prohibits the sharing of the property of the Chamber among its members. The proposal also foresees that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, by means of its statutes, will determine how members will enter and exit and, of course, prevent certain fluctuations in members and the use of membership only when the Chamber is needed. The law therefore regulates the type of content. The aim of the law is to accelerate and relieve the small economy and make the Slovenian economy more competitive. At its meeting on Tuesday, the government also stressed that the bill contains a number of good solutions, following the will of membership and regulating the area in an appropriate and European comparable way. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in view of the economic situation, it is necessary to adapt more quickly to social change for the benefit of the craftsmen, as well as the countries and the public, and to respond more quickly to their demands and expectations. If you allow a certain course to be completed. We understand that the assembly system in Slovenia is today regulated in a variety of ways. The government is expected to try to define the Chambers as a key element of the business support environment by the end of this year, not only the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, but also the other representative chambers and thus define them as one of the key parts of the entrepreneurship support environment and thus enable them to defend their interests in a stable manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor first to Mrs Kristina Valenčič, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you. Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! With the principle of 'we are stronger together', Slovenian craftsmen felt that it was necessary to connect and unite more than 45 years ago. From then on, this association has changed several times since then. Thus, the status form of the chamber changed and the trade itself was changing, following the development of mankind. We have started to experience significant changes in our attitude towards craftsmanship in Slovenia after independence, when major social changes took place. And the time has come that requires new adjustments from us. Today, at the request of the Council of State, we will again decide on changes and additions to the craftsmen's law. The main purpose of this novelty is to abolish compulsory membership, which is of great importance for the entire industry due to the history and specificity of the crafts sector. In the Civil Gazette, we have advocated voluntary membership from the very beginning, in all chambers and associations, because we are convinced that voluntary models of chambers prevent the monopolistic representation of stakeholders in relation to the country. This position is advocated throughout the legislative process of this proposal for a trade law and even today. It should be pointed out that the proposal for a law – apart from the question of the introduction of voluntary membership – is also fully harmonised and acceptable to the Chamber of Commerce. Thus, the Chamber retains the status of a legal person under public law. The definition of rotation is newly defined and preserves regulation only in emergencies. The Chamber of Commerce is given new public powers, including in the area of cross-border service management, and has also been given the possibility of funding from the State budget, to which it has not been eligible. The law also adequately regulates the transfer of property in the event of the termination of any of the regional trade chambers and prohibits the sharing of property among members. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the law introduces such solutions that bring about the liberalisation of the area of crafts and crafts of similar activities, promote greater competition on the market and provide equivalent conditions for all operators on the market. As we say, Members and Members of the Civil Code will also support the proposal for a trade law today. We are convinced that Slovenian craftsmen need a strong and strong organisation that will pursue the objectives and protect the interests of craftsmen, and such an organisation must be based on voluntary membership, competitiveness, a stable business environment and a user-friendly environment. If the Chamber of Commerce makes all this possible for its members, then we are confident that today, like 45 years ago, the craftsmen will feel that together they are stronger and the rest of the faithful members of the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, despite the negative veto of the State Council, we see no reason to change our position on compulsory membership. Following the entry into force of voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, if the trade law today receives the support of 46 Members and Members, the Chamber of Commerce will be the third assembly organisation to be organised on a voluntary basis. What I would like to stress today and here in particular is that by no means do we abolish the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts. What some advocates of compulsory membership in the Chamber try to present is pure demagogy. With the amendment of the craftsmen's law, we are simply and only abolishing the compulsory membership of this assembly organization and, I must stress in particular, suspending it at their request, at the request of the chamber. The chamber is not her leadership, the chamber is its members. This decision is only guided by the results of a referendum in which almost 70% of its own members have spoken against compulsory membership with a convincing majority. For this law and for the abolition of compulsory membership, we will vote in favour of all those Members who respect the institutions of the rule of law. While we all say that we respect them when we really do, things are usually quite different. However, we must not forget that, in part, the abolition of the mandatory membership of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry with this amendment of the Act as the sole representative of the craftsmen has also resulted in the exercise of public powers in this area and thus a certain amount of money from the State budget. There has also been a lot of talk in recent months about the new management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is functioning properly, has reduced its benefits and has undertaken the reorganisation of the Chamber, which is, we must say, very gratefully from here, and we are particularly pleased in the Slovenian People's Party. We are convinced that it is right on top of leadership, and that if, of course, the work of the House’s management is transparent and qualitative, most of its current members will not have the desire to leave this organization. Regrettably, the former leadership, by its conduct and even more so by the indecisive payment of wages and rewards, has won many opposers. We are confident that the current leadership will strive to do better, but of course there is no guarantee for this, nor for the following leadership. Voluntary membership will thus certainly be the best guarantee that the work of the Chamber will be brought closer to the needs of its members. In spite of this partial loss of revenue, this amendment of the law on the exercise of public powers promises additional fixed revenue. And the truth of lovingness is not overturned overnight, but practically only at the end of the year. Like craftsmen and entrepreneurs, the management of the Chamber will also have to adapt to the new situation. In the economy, it is said that the crisis is in fact a new challenge and nothing will be tragic for the chamber if, after a new one, it fights a little more for its members and at least partially, like its members, it faces market rules. In the Slovenian People's Party, as we have already announced, we will once again vote in favour of the amendment of the craftsmen's law and thus fulfill our commitment to Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs to respect the outcome of their referendum and thus to at least partially relieve them of financial obligations in this difficult crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State with Fellow Member, Honourable President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I will not discuss the content of the law, which we will be re-declaring today, in broad terms. We all know what a trade is, why changes are needed and what they bring. In principle, most of the marriage solutions already adopted are suitable for the majority. The high degree of coordination was also achieved only by the Chamber of Commerce. There's no denying that. However, the most media coverage is that part of the changes that relate only to membership in the Chamber of Commerce. Even though some cite other reasons for not supporting this law, I doubt that they are true and decisive. There is still a definition of membership in the background. It almost feels like it's all about that change. The transition from compulsory membership to voluntary membership is also the reason why the Council of State has vetoed this law. And let me quote the explanation of the state councillors: "A consultation referendum on the form of membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry was attended by 18.6% of all electoral beneficiaries. Therefore, in view of the proposed amendments to the referendum legislation, it would not be in force at all. Therefore, the Council of State considers that changes to the law on the basis of the misused referendum will cannot be justified." Such arguments based on some unaccepted, invalid proposals for acts from the Council of State as a professional institution would never have been expected. I must admit that here you state councilors have disappointed me to the full and again the question of the eligibility of the existence of this body has arisen to me. Let me ask you, did you then abuse your powers when an amendment to the constitution on the abolition of the authority of which you are representatives was introduced into the procedure? In short, the fact is that the referendum was carried out in a legal way, so no abuse can be discussed. The results of the referendum are also clear. And the fact is that our country is one of the rare systems of compulsory membership of craftsmen. However, it is true that, following the referendum, the views are shared. Most craftsmen advocate voluntary membership. Some of these and leading in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia are compulsory membership. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we listened to both sides. The Members and Members of our Group have not voted in a single vote in previous votes. And even today, our views are shared. That is why we will vote on this law in our conscience in our re-decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr Secretary of State and co-worker, representative of the Council of State and President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry! My main message is that the New Slovenia Group will today renew its support for the amendment of the Commercial Law. In Novi Slovenije we have written into the economic programme that the Slovenian economy needs to regain its competitiveness. An important part of the Slovenian economy is craftsmen who, with their commitment and desire to succeed, have already contributed greatly to the economic development of our country in the past. Even in these times, which are not easy for Slovenian craftsmen, it is the kind of craftsmanship that attempts to keep in touch with the world’s competition and the local population, with its Slovenian stubbornness and ingenuity, provides the necessary jobs. The country can help craftsmen by promoting their innovation and development through various mechanisms. As has been shown in recent years, the country should remove any other unnecessary administrative obstacles or procedures. When the New Slovenia Group visits Slovenian regions, 8 we have visited them so far, craftsmen often present their expectations to us, and this is to provide them with a particularly suitable and competitive business environment, but they will work alone, because they know it well, have a lot of knowledge, experience and a lot of will. The proposed amendment to the craft law is also a step in this direction, as it simplifies certain procedures concerning registration in the trade register and allows craftsmen to join other chambers. One of the major changes introduced by the amendment of the law is the abolition of mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije we advocate the free decision of companies, membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the free decision of craftsmen and entrepreneurs for membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the free decision of farmers for membership in the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia. With regard to the mandatory membership of craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, we have decided, given our positive attitude towards Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, to respect the outcome of the internal referendum during the membership of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia. This was carried out in April 2012 and showed that around 70% of the tradesmen who attended the referendum wanted membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise no longer to be compulsory. The Ministry has therefore included in the amendment a solution that abolishes compulsory membership. Nevertheless, in Novi Slovenija we advocated that a reasonable transitional period should be set to allow the chamber and craftsmen to prepare for this relatively large change, after which. These days, we receive many letters in which individuals and organizations are begging us to renew our marriage, yet others are writing us to follow the State Council and to reject the law. The new Slovenia remains firm in its position, which we have been defending all the time, and our parliamentary group, as I have already announced, will re- back up the law. We are not in favour of decommissioning the assembly system, but it cannot live on membership alone. We believe that in the case of an adopted law, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises will be able to optimally and rationally reorganise and find new sources of income on the market. Each craftsman will certainly be willing to pay for, for example, an advisory service on how to export to a country or how to write a successful application for obtaining funding on domestic and European tenders. We believe that most Slovenian craftsmen will take our decision well, and we believe that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia will continue to function well and we wish it many successes and many Slovenian craftsmanship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Member State of Poland's positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you. Respectable, respectable! The purpose of amending and supplementing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Commercial Law is to implement the will of craftsmen and craftsmen expressed at the referendum on 25 April 2012 in the form of a vote for voluntary membership. This is a fact that has not changed to this day, and this must be respected. The Government has aligned the content of the bill with that of the Chamber of Commerce, but the question of compulsory or voluntary membership remained open between the Chamber of Commerce and the Government, and the decision taken at the referendum has therefore been taken into account. The Chamber of Commerce also retains a different position in the case of voluntary membership from that of the Chambers under the Chamber of Commerce Act than other Chambers, to which representation is not already given on the basis of the provisions of the Act, but only in the case of the fulfilment of the statutory conditions. Novela also removes many obstacles for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen and regulates the status inequality of Slovenian chambers of commerce. The Chamber will also maintain its status as a legal person of public law following the proposed amendment, which means that the abolition of compulsory membership will not lead to a specific form of economic interest association. The Act also adds new additional public powers, in particular in the field of cross-border service provision, filling a multi-annual legal void which allowed foreign service providers to operate in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia without meeting the qualifications conditions. The positive Slovenia has expressed a number of concerns about the law in the Committee on the Economy and later at the meeting of the National Assembly. Therefore, so far, the Group has not adopted a uniform position on the proposal and its members and members have made their own decisions. In spite of the above, in the Group of Members, we point out that the proposed law governs a series of content whose main objective is to speed up and relieve the small economy and make the Slovenian economy more competitive, which we support. Therefore, it does not seem reasonable for us to reject the law in its entirety because of some dilemmas that were otherwise exposed and not fully resolved at the stage of the hearing. The latter is also accompanied by an opinion from the Government, which points out that in view of the economic situation, social change needs to be adapted more quickly for the benefit of craftsmen, as well as the public, and to respond more quickly to their demands and expectations. In addition, the Committee on the Economy's re-examination session highlighted the need to focus on the issue in particular in view of the impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the creation of new jobs. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will, on the basis of the above arguments, support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law in most cases, but it will not be uniform. However, in Positive Slovenia, the Government is reminded that it would make sense in the future, once the law has been enacted, to carry out an analysis of the latter and to consider any adjustments if they prove necessary. So we still have time during the transitional period, while the existing law is still in force, for additions, since by law the Chamber of Commerce is a representative body of crafts and entrepreneurship. By the end of the year, the government will be trying to treat all chambers as a key element of the entrepreneurship support environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u18	Dear President, representatives of the Ministry, representative of the Council of State, welcome! To begin with, we will support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in spite of the veto of the National Council of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law, as it brings many good solutions and respects the will of the craftsmen expressed in the referendum. The Chambers shall be legal persons in which economic operators or individuals who carry out a particular profession are grouped together. Public debates in previous years have focused on the need to renovate or amend an existing assembly system reflecting a type of deficiency. It is estimated that the implementation of the law governing the Chamber of Commerce has contributed to the promotion of the efficiency of the Chambers of Commerce and to more effective cooperation in the search and expression of common interests and to the decommissioning of the economy, and therefore the proposal is that the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia may also have similar positive effects. However, since the Constitutional position has on several occasions taken the view that indeed well-founded different situations are possible to regulate differently and even necessarily different legal arrangements, the proposer has decided to take into account in particular the specificity of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In the light of the above, the applicant decided to follow an arrangement which, despite the status of a legal person, brings together members on a voluntary basis. The coalition partners have undertaken in the coalition contract to adopt solutions whereby membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be voluntary, except in the event that the members of this Chamber will decide on a mandatory membership by a referendum at the level of integration into the Chamber. During the consultation referendum on the form of membership, participants voted in favour of a voluntary form of membership. For this reason, the applicant joined the amendments to the trade law with a view to repealing the provisions relating to compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The law follows the objective of simplifying the business environment, greater opportunities for finding work, employment and, above all, greater competitiveness of Slovenian craftsmen. In view of that proposal, the law in force removes all craft activities for which there is no sufficient public interest to justify their regulation through a crafts permit. The purpose of the law is also to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European Union law, i.e. the proposal regulates the application of temporary provision of services in accordance with the Internal Market Services Directive and the Professional Qualifications Directive. The current legislation does not yet have a system in place to apply for the occasional provision of services to foreign natural and legal persons, so our craftsmen are in a worse position because foreign natural and legal persons do not have to meet the qualifications or other conditions for the exercise of crafts activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The main solutions introduced by the new law: any natural or legal person involved in a trade activity may be included in the Chamber by means of a change that is mandatory and governed by voluntary membership. This amendment also removes the compulsory payment of the mandatory membership contribution. The bill also allows for merger in other chambers on the basis of the provisions of the law governing the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia remains a representative of the trades and continues to exercise public powers. Entry into the trade register of similar activities and activities for which appropriate professional competence is not required, as well as the activities of domestic and art craftsmen shall be deleted. The trade register shall include entities engaged in craft activities that require appropriate professional competence. Additional definition of craft activities for activities requiring specific professional competence and other craft activities requiring no specific professional competence. An EU edition was added, confirming the legitimate conduct of regulated activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the certificate is in accordance with Directive 2005/36 of the European Community on the recognition of professional qualifications, so that the holder of the certificate in the Member State where he wishes to provide the service proves that he is legally established in a Member State. The law also regulates the application of cross-border occasional crafts activities. The transitional provisions also govern the harmonisation of the Statutes of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the cut-off date by which the members of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise may come from the membership of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The law also adequately regulates the transfer of assets in the event of the abolition of a particular area of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In our trust group, we will reconfirm the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. One more nice hello to everyone. Everything and more has been said in this law through the adoption procedure. I will therefore lay down just a few facts as to how the Social Democrats will act in this last decision on the law on the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Throughout the debate on the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, we have opposed this since 2006, as we opposed the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia at that time. The reasons for our position are based on arguments of both professional and practice, which has shown that the reckless abolition of compulsory membership is quickly reflected in a series of negative consequences. Moreover, we believe that the abolition of compulsory membership for the chamber would mean the death of meals. We must not put the Chamber at the level of voluntary society simply because of poor decisions made by past leaders, because of non-transparent business and quickly put it into a new framework of action. The weaknesses of such decisions have also been demonstrated in the event of the abolition of compulsory membership in other similar associations. The abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber is also not a magic wand that will solve all problems, as some would like to show. While we respect the decision of the members of the Chamber expressed in the referendum, we see it more as an expression of great dissatisfaction with the current functioning of the Chamber, the leadership and so on, which we believe should be radically changed. The business should be rewinded, greater transparency should be ensured in the functioning of the Chamber, reduced membership fees and, in the first place, restored the members' trust that the Chamber is due to them and not the other way around. As a result of our position, we have received more criticism than praise, but we believe that the issue needs to be addressed at a long time and not to the extent that the decisions that are quickly liked are based primarily on the acute dissatisfaction with the work of the Chamber, which we have stressed, will also need to be rectified. In times when we need a strong Chamber of Commerce more than ever, with clear objectives and objectives of incentives and assistance to craftsmen, it is only right that we do not interfere with the foundation of the stable functioning of the Chamber, which is provided by a very mandatory membership. Social Democrats will therefore oppose the amendments to the Commercial Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.20. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to consumer credit laws, a short-term procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Urošu Rožić, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Hello again! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act is proposed following a reduced procedure, as it is a matter of less difficult amendments to the applicable law. This is primarily the transposition of the provisions of the Commission Directive which regulate additional assumptions for the calculation of the annual effective interest rate, since the assumptions laid down in the previous Consumer Credit Contracts Regulation are no longer sufficient for the single calculation of the EOM and are no longer adapted to the economic situation in the common internal market. That's the main purpose of this novel. The aim of the directive is to create a better environment for the effective functioning of the internal market and to ensure a high and comparable level of consumer protection in the common European internal market. The aim is also to ensure that the average consumer, which is not a financial expert, is given market transparency and a simpler comparison between different credit offers and thus increase the competitiveness of credit providers. The harmonisation of the legal regime on the essential components of consumer credit contracts is therefore the European Commission's main strategy for the development of the internal market in the consumer credit segment. In addition, if we can call it European work, the proposal for a novelty contains a number of amendments, providing a legal basis for supplementing the rules on the conditions to be met by credit intermediaries with regard to education and spatial conditions. In practice, market surveillance has shown an increasing number of credit transactions concluded with consumers through credit intermediaries who do not need to meet the conditions required for credit providers under current rules, which, of course, expose consumers to higher risks. A legal basis is added to the Minister for the Regulation of Educational Conditions for Creditpayers, which is necessary in order to fill the legal gap, further address certain minor inconsistencies found in the applicable law and, in particular, give the inspection body a stronger legal basis for action in cases of new forms of abuse or avoidance on the market. In market surveillance, it is noted that credit providers who, at the same time, on the same day, offer multiple related contracts, which is not appropriate and thus circumvent the purpose of this law. So much for a brief explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent labour force. The Committee's report will be presented by Vice-President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr President, and a nice welcome to all of you. The Committee on the Economy shall meet at its 8th regular session on 13. 3. 2013 treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 40th session. 1. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and commented on Articles 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 9 of the draft law. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the draft law in the course of business. The Committee was presented with proposals for amendments to the Committee on Articles 2, 6, 8 and 9 and for a new address and a new Article 9a prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology on the basis of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed support for the proposed amendments to the law and pointed out the importance of regulating the legal basis for regulating educational conditions for credit and credit intermediaries in terms of more effective market surveillance and consumer protection. With regard to the eight-month deadline set out in the proposal for an amendment to the Committee for a new Article 9a, a question was raised as to the reasons for its renewal. In addition, the debate also highlighted the issue of the extra-judicial cross-border resolution of consumer credit disputes and the warning given about consumer protection in cases of inclusion in the legal ban on credit transactions. The Secretary of State further provided some more detailed explanations on the issues and dilemmas raised by the debate and agreed that it could be reduced to three months as regards the time limit for adapting the Regulation. The meeting was also attended by the Executive Director of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who explained that there were no specific comments on the proposed law. It further gave some warnings regarding the preparation of the Regulation and a number of possible abuses related to the establishment and registration of companies at VEM points. In the context of the debate, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 6, 8 and 9 of the amendments to the Committee prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for a law which forms an integral part of the report of this Committee has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you, too, to the Vice-President of the Committee. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presečnik will first present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The most important reason for the amendment of this law, which was prepared in the previous Government, is the transposition of the provisions of the 2011 Commission Directive which regulates additional assumptions in order to allow for a uniform calculation of the effective interest rate. The aim is to create a better environment for the effective functioning of the internal market and to ensure a high and comparable level of consumer protection in the internal market. By this law, we want consumers who are generally not financial experts to be more secure on the market and also to be more transparent when compared to different credit offers, so that all credit conditions on the same denominator will be easier to compare offers for the consumer and thus be less exposed to complex and often misleading financial products in the field of crediting. The note also contains an appropriate addition to the work on the required educational structure of people working in the marketing and granting of loans, as well as in the specific definition of the appropriate spatial conditions for carrying out this activity. In this way, it is impossible to avoid the rule of law mainly through the conclusion of contracts with the assistance of credit intermediaries, since, as previously explained by the Ministry's representatives, there has been an increasing number of abuses and attempts to circumvent existing legislation in the area of credit agreements. In view of the crisis in which the financial system is also located in the credit supply market, it is evident that it also appears to more and more speculators and other bidders who want to take advantage of the situation and, of course, take advantage of it financially. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we welcome and support the novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The awareness of the importance and protection of the consumer, which appears as a weaker article in strong chains of providers of goods and services, is, according to our assessment, crucial in today's striking and ruthless market economy. The level of consumer protection achieved in our country is quite high. In order to remain so in the future or to continue to build consumer safety through the elements of greater consumer security while promoting supply competitiveness, it is essential that we improve legislation. As today's novels are also followed by greater consumer protection, we will support them in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. The Commission Directive, which lays down additional assumptions for the calculation of the annual effective interest rate on consumer credits and provides standards for the time frame for the start of the drawdown of credit and payments made by the consumer, should otherwise be implemented by 31 December of last year. In addition to harmonising the law with European Union law, the law is also being supplemented to provide the appropriate legal basis for determining the conditions that credit intermediaries have to meet and will be more precisely determined by amending the Regulation. The latter seems particularly important in terms of the protection of the average borrower, who in practice has been repeatedly deceived in one way or another, because it represents a major contribution to his greater legal certainty. As already said in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree with the amendment of consumer credit laws and we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Promoting the protection of consumer rights is one of the priorities of European Union rules. The Republic of Slovenia, as one of the members of the European Union, therefore transposes into the internal legal order the directive governing this area. The main objective of this Directive is to improve the situation for the internal functioning of the market, in particular in terms of ensuring greater consumer protection, as well as ensuring equal opportunities for lenders throughout the European market. The consumer is weaker than the lender or intermediary and therefore needs special legal protection, especially because the consumer is virtually never affected by the contractual content when concluding a credit agreement. This is done by the lender or intermediary. However, the creditor may only choose between the individual pre-prepared options and which of them is accepted or not. The Consumer Credit Act has already regulated the area of consumer credit, but has not established sufficient consumer protection mechanisms in certain types of contracts. This is in the case of open credit contracts and in the case of credit contracts where the date and amount of credit are not specified. The creditor was the one who, as a stronger contracting party himself, determined which obligations he would consider settled by individual payment. Most often by protecting yourself first. The legal novelty removes these shortcomings and determines when and under what conditions individual payments of obligations are counted when the date and conditions of payment of the obligations under the contract are not laid down. The second area covered by this amendment is the regulation of uniform criteria for determining an effective interest rate for loans where the repayment period is not fixed in advance or the loans are repaid in full with multiple payments. The aim of this amendment is again to ensure greater consumer protection. The average consumer is not an expert in financial matters and therefore needs market transparency and a simpler comparison between the different credit offers of credit providers. The third amendment introduced by this amendment is the regulation of the legislative basis for ensuring the conditions for the appearance of credit intermediaries on the market. As a result of the legal restrictions on consumer credit bank approvals, I am referring to the provisions regarding the amount of the guaranteed wage to be left to the consumer, the proportion of credit contracts concluded through credit intermediaries has recently increased. This is practically the only way to obtain credit for those who have low monthly income – at the level of the guaranteed wage or even less. Credit providers have prescribed high interest rates and credit authorisation costs and set out adverse conditions for the payment of credit. This was confirmed by market surveillance. Consumer rights are not adequately protected or even abused. The amendments and additions to this Act will also address these shortcomings from the point of view of the establishment of the required educational condition of credit intermediaries. In our view, a credit intermediary must have the knowledge of financial transactions, insurance and other civil relations in order to properly carry out its business. Members of the New Slovenia Group announce support for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Consumer Credits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome to the government, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, our attitude will not differ much from what we have already heard. But it's still my duty to hand it over. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which at its 45th regular meeting on 17 January 2013, laid down the text of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration after a reduced procedure. The draft law lays down the provisions of Commission Directive 2011/90 EU amending Part 2, Annex 1, to Directive 2008/48 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which lays down additional assumptions for the calculation of the annual effective interest rate. The experience of Member States in implementing the Directive has shown that assumptions are not sufficient for a uniform calculation of the annual fixed interest rate and are no longer adapted to the economic situation on the market and are therefore complemented by new assumptions. These are based on the standards for calculating the annual effective interest rate on loans that are not concluded for a fixed period or are fully payable in the form of multiple payments. Standards are also provided for the time frame for drawing on credit and payments made by the consumer. The draft law provides the legal basis for supplementing the rules on the conditions to be met by a credit intermediary with regard to the conditions to be met by a credit intermediary, which also eliminates the inconsistencies found in the law in force. In order to fill the legal gap, a legal basis shall be added to the competent minister for the regulation of educational conditions for creditors and credit intermediaries and the provision to prevent the avoidance of the provisions of the law shall be supplemented. With the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, the Republic of Slovenia fulfils the obligation to transpose the Directive into its internal legal order. Member States should, or in our case, transpose this Directive into their domestic legal provisions by 31 July 2016. 12. 2012. The aim of the directive is to create a better relationship for the effective functioning of the internal market and to ensure a high and comparable level of consumer protection in the internal market. The aim is also to ensure market transparency and a simpler comparison between different credit offers to an average consumer who is not an expert in the financial field, thereby increasing the competitiveness of credit providers. Harmonising the legal regime on the essential components of consumer credit contracts is the European Commission's main strategy for developing the internal market for consumer credit. This bill will be supported by the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you, too, for your introduction. Mr Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to Consumer Credits brings forward a series of novelties that will have a positive impact on the functioning of the internal market, allowing greater security and transparency for the final consumer. As a result of all this, Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal and the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Srečko Meh will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Pogačnik did today, we could say briefly and succinctly, because we are adopting amendments and additions to the consumer credit law, which essentially regulate an area that allows for better and more transparent business. However, the aim is also to ensure that the average consumer, who is normally not an expert in the financial field, is provided with transparency and also a simpler comparison between the various credit offers and the competitiveness of credit providers. The fact that harmonisation of the legal regime is also necessary because of the European directive is, in some ways, reasonable because we have been working for quite some time. Of course, new assumptions are added based on the standards for calculating the annual effective interest rate on loans that are concluded for an indefinite period or are fully remunerated in several instalments. Standards are also provided for the time frame for drawing on credit and payments made by the consumer. The provisions of Article 8 of the Law, which amend Article 34 of the Law and increase the supervision of the market inspectorate, are important to social democrats. We are increasingly finding in Slovenia and everywhere that we have relatively good and extensive laws, but inspections do not work well. We therefore consider that in the area of consumer credit, there is a particular need to ensure or ensure consumer protection so that they are not besieged by the payout and the conditions that may seem to be favourable at first sight, but they are not. Therefore, it is welcome to supplement Article 8(9), which amends Article 34, so that the credit intermediary must provide more information to the consumer before the contract is concluded. Previous information, of course, is extremely important, and often we should also tell consumers from this place, in order to obtain prior information so that they do not just sit on individual promises or offers and thus obtain better conditions. For all of this, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you for presenting your point of view. Mr Bojan Starman will also present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much again for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Civil Code will also support amendments to the Consumer Credit Act. This is a welcome help in this very aggressive consumer world, which often deceives consumers who are underprotected in making certain transactions. In doing so, I would not repeat all the things that changes in the law bring. I would like to point out that the amendment of the Consumer Credit Act to the non-bank sector is said to those who are not doing very professionally with this and to improve and require a better education structure for these people who provide credits and also allow for supervision. Often we find out whether we are going to buy an old car or a new car or some value, that we are given very good terms about renting a loan without interest and so on. Usually only when we do business and we are satisfied when we do it, we start to count at home how they actually brought us around, that it's not as cheap as we originally thought when we were seduced by advertising. But it is usually too late, it is no longer possible to correct a mistake when we have already signed a contract. That is why all these changes are very welcome. We need to be aware that there will be more and more. We know that the saints of these consumer societies, the Western ones, from America onward – that they are practically bought there when you go to the store, you see strange things for us, and it's been a long time since I've seen it. There's always offers for, like, one dollar a month, which you think is funny. We bought a car with us on credit or an apartment, but otherwise we didn't deal with these things. This will be more and more, and it is right that those involved are necessarily under certain supervision, and it is right that we, too, are in line with the European Union, because we are a single market and must follow the same rules of the game. Above all, it is important to protect consumers who are often played. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.20. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Hellenic Republic Act, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The bill before you is part of a major overhaul of Greece's financial assistance package. In November 2012, the meeting of the finance ministers of the euro area found that Greece would not be able to achieve its fiscal objectives within the agreed period. The main reason is the tightening of the economic situation, which is much worse than anticipated at the time of the preparation of the second programme at the beginning of last year. In addition, there were delays in the implementation of the adopted reform programme at the time the new Greek government was formed after the elections in mid-2012. All of this led to an agreement within the Eurogroup on additional measures. The aim of the Greek programme is to reduce Greece's debt to a sustainable level and to give Greece access to financial markets as soon as possible. In order to restore confidence, however, it is essential that the programme is credible. The current Greek government has shown a strong commitment to fulfil its commitments, but under the economic conditions given it would not be realistic by the end of 2014. The European Union has thus agreed to extend Greece's deadline for a permanent reduction of the deficit below 3 % of GDP for two years, until 2016. As a result, this means a higher need for funding and additional pressure on debt levels, and finance ministers within the Eurogroup have agreed on a package of measures to achieve a reduction in the amount of Greek debt to 120 % of GDP by 2022. One of the measures taken was the change in the terms of bilateral loans. Other measures include the modification of the terms of the EFSF loans and the transfer of Eurosystem profits from Greek debt securities purchase operations on the secondary market. However, the condition set by the euro area countries to Greece was that it would have successfully completed its own debt buy-back, which was also made last December, and that Greek debt would have been reduced by 10% of GDP as a result of this operation. Greece has thus fulfilled the condition laid down and there is before you a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law amending the terms of the loan to Greece. The proposed law, as has already been said, aims to further contribute to ensuring the sustainability of Greek debt. The main solution to the proposed law is to provide a legal basis for the entry into force of the credit agreement allowance, which reduces the interest rate by 100 basis points according to the existing interest rate or sets the interest rate for the eurobor plus 50 basis points. The second measure is to extend the duration of the loan from 15 to 30 years. The amendments included in the draft law should apply to the interest periods starting after 15 December 2012. Greece, however, drew the last instalment of the loan in December 2011 and absorbed EUR 263.7 million from a total of EUR 387.8 million. The rest of the loan has been transferred to another financial assistance programme and is drawn up in the form of EFSF loans. However, it should be pointed out that Greece regularly fulfils its obligations under the loan agreement and pays interest in accordance with the expected dynamics. Slovenia has thus far received around EUR 14 million on interest paid for the loan. I would also like to point out that the solution to the Greek issue is closely linked to the stability of the euro as a common currency area and that Slovenia is actively involved in seeking and providing solutions for the sustainability of Greek debt and the credibility of the Greek programme. It takes into account everything the Government has said and proposes to the National Assembly that it adopts a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you, too. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The presentation of the Committee's report will be made by a member of Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 13th session. 3. 2013 considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Hellenic Republic Loan Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Legislative and Legal Service has made its comments to Article 3 of the Law. In its opinion, the Service drew attention to the lack of justification for the time limit for the implementation of the Act, which is shorter than the general 15-day deadline. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the bill was part of a recast of the extensive second aid package to Greece. On the basis of the Troika report, the Eurogroup meeting in November 2012 found that Greece would not be able to achieve its objectives within the agreed period. The reasons for this are in particular acute economic conditions, which are much worse than envisaged in the preparation of the second programme, and delays in the implementation of the adopted reform programme at the time of the establishment of the new government in mid-2012. The new Greek Government is strongly committed to meeting its commitments and it is also necessary to ensure a credible implementation of the programme, and a decision has been taken to extend the deadline for Greece to address the surplus deficit below 3 % of gross domestic product for 2 years. The proposed law aims to further contribute to the greater sustainability of Greece's public debt through the revised terms of the loan to Greece in addition to the other measures implemented. The main solution to the proposed law is to provide a legal basis for the entry into force of an addendum to a loan agreement that reduces the interest rate by 100 basis points according to the existing interest rate or sets the interest rate at Euribor+50 basis points and extends the maturity of the loan from 15 to 30 years. In conclusion, the Secretary of State stressed that the solution to the Greek issue is closely linked to the stability of the euro as a common currency of the area and Slovenia is therefore participating in the search for and providing solutions for the sustainability of Greek debt and the credibility of the Greek programme. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that they had already pointed out in a written opinion that the applicant had failed to provide reasons for the shorter deadlines in force or had not substantiated them. This is particularly important because in this case it is a reduced procedure for the adoption of legislation and not an urgent procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Hellenic Republic Loan Act be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u44	A warm greeting to all present and thank you for your word! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the amendment of the loan law to Greece, as the law does not alter the maximum amount of the loan laid down in the basic loan law of the Hellenic Republic, amounting to EUR 387.8 million. The amendment provides only the legal basis for the entry into force of the third extension to the loan contract, which reduces the interest rate and extends the maturity and deferral period for the principal in respect of the loan to Greece. Since these supplements have already been agreed upon and confirmed at Eurogroup level, it is inevitable that Member States will make every effort to ensure that these supplements can be implemented and brought to life. The revised terms of the loan will allow Greece to return to financial markets in the coming years, which means ensuring the sustainability of Greece's public debt and thus contributing to the preservation of financial stability in the euro area.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you. Following is the position of the New Slovenia Group, which will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all again! Greece or the Hellenic Republic is one of those countries that has requested the European Union's assistance for reasons of fiscal incontinence. On 8 May 2010, a financial assistance contract was signed for Greece of EUR 80 billion, to which additions were also signed. Under the principle of solidarity and proportionality, financial assistance was provided by all countries of the European Union, except Slovakia, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. However, financial assistance could be drawn from Greece in several tranches. The European Commission has regularly monitored the implementation of the measures adopted and has been conditioned by meeting the conditions of agreed economic policies to draw up the next tranche. Let me mention, however, that Slovenia has contributed EUR 263 million from the state budget so far for financial assistance to Greece. And what were the measures already taken by Greece to achieve fiscal sustainability? These include reduced salaries for public servants, reduced salaries for employees in state-owned enterprises, reduced number of employees in the public sector, reduced pensions, increased VAT rates, increased excise duties on fuels, tobacco and alcohol, the introduction of a specific tax on profit-making companies and on high-income persons and the introduction of a tax on luxury real estate. In this way, Greece was able to reduce the fiscal deficit in 2010 by 5% of GDP. Greece has therefore successfully implemented measures to reduce the public financial deficit in the first place. However, due to the poor economic situation in that country and in particular to the internal political situation, the election and the appointment of a new government, the measures have stalled the planned measures. Greece will therefore have to take additional measures to reduce the public financial deficit already planned from raising the retirement age to 67 years, abolishing the payment of two out of a total of fourteen annual pensions, abolishing public administration jobs, further reducing salaries and higher pensions. For already drawn tranches, Greece will not be able to pay its obligations within the expected deadlines. This amendment of the Hellenic Republic Loan Act extends the repayment period from 15 to 30 years and also reduces the interest on the loans already granted from 100 to 50 basis points. The adoption of this law is based on the content of the implementation of the last addendum to the loan contract signed by the European Commission with Greece at the end of last year, on 19 December 2012, and represents an integrated adaptation to Greece's economic assistance programme. As a member of the European Community, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to respect the rules and arrangements of European integration that we are part of. It was therefore necessary to prepare an appropriate amendment to the law governing the loan to Greece, which we are deciding on today. Since we are committed in Novi Slovenija, we also announce support for the proposed amendment to the Hellenic Republic loan law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thanks again for saying that. Dear Members and Members, Madam Secretary of State! Our position will be brief, given that there was no debate and no additional conclusions on the parental committee or on the competent committee of the State Council. The bill that we are considering today is part of the renewal of Greece's second aid package. As we have already heard, on the basis of the report of the troika at the Eurogroup meeting in November 2012, it was found that Greece will not be able to reach the agreed deadlines for the second aid package. Today, it has already been mentioned that the reasons for Greece's infirmity continue to be reflected in very tight economic conditions, as well as in the stalemate in implementing reforms for the establishment of a new government in mid-2012. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia has long stressed that a stable euro area, a stable common currency and thus the stable sustainability of Greece's public debt must be a priority for all members of the European Monetary Union. Of course, Slovenia is no exception here. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we support all the proposals that provide solutions for the sustainability of Greek public debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Even after five years, we can say that Athens is still the epicenter of European debt and perhaps the global crisis, but on the basis of the measures it has taken with the two-fold package of Greece, things are changing and going for the better. As the last winter analysis of the European Commission shows, and not least, as the report of the International Monetary Fund shows. In 2010, for the first time, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund signed the first memorandum of anti-crisis measures and EUR 110 billion worth of bilateral loans and prevented the financial collapse of Greece. In 2011, Greece still had negative growth in gross social product, minus 6.8% in the year, and this year unemployment increased to 20%, today being around 25%. For example, Greece still had a unemployment rate of 7.7% in 2008. This, of course, means that this crisis was deeper than the Argentine crisis, and it has also been harder to say so since the Latvian year 2008. By means of measures which have been prescribed and which have already been discussed, notably in the field of fiscal and also the introduction of new taxes, Greece has stopped and attempted to halt the fall of macroeconomic economic indicators by 2012. It was successful when it adopted an international financial assistance package on 13 February 2012, and this was also adopted by the Greek Parliament, of course with great commitments, and so on 9 March 2012 the Greek Government announced a successful restructuring of public debt and in this way also had to turn investors, private investors, into new bonds. This reduced Greece's debt by €105 billion. In this way, Greece has committed itself to further measures, namely the rationalisation of health expenditure with at least a billion and 76 million dollars, the reduction of the purchase of military equipment by 300 million euros, the reduction of the number of deputies, mayors and staff at regional level, which will bring 30 million, the reduction of operational costs and expenditure, which will bring 270 million at government level, the reduction of the public investment budget, except for those arising from the Structural Funds, which will amount to 400 million and an additional reduction in wages, the fight against tax evasion, the modernisation of public administration. Last but not least, the European Commission notes this in the latest winter report, where this was published, that exports have started to increase, that competitiveness has increased and that other developments in Greece are also positive and that Greece is expected to have a GDP growth of 0.6% in 2014. This is, of course, an indication of an economic policy when, after years of difficult political crisis, certain successes have already been seen. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that such measures have been necessary, that we are in the common euro area, that this means certain obligations and also gives us certain advantages such as greater openness in the financial markets and the common currency, but also means certain solidarity. For these reasons, we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Respected and respected! We are part of a related world, the economic and financial crisis has also increased this fateful linkage because Europe has developed a number of mechanisms since the start of the crisis, in order to prevent future financial crises of such dimensions and, on the other hand, to address the consequences of the debt crisis in Europe and the euro area in particular. Greece was the first step of resolution. Slovenia has consciously become part of the European Union and, when we became a full member of the European Union, we have lived in the belief that we are particularly in good together. More than ever, the crisis has highlighted the need for us together to be in a bad position to develop appropriate solidarity mechanisms within the European Union. This policy has been advocated by the Social Democrats all the time, so we support the amendment of the law which allows Greece to return to the financial markets in the years ahead, thereby ensuring the sustainability of Greece's public debt, taking into account the remaining measures, including the possibility of its own redemption of debt. This reduces the likelihood of a possible chain effect of reducing access to funding sources for the remaining euro area Member States, contributing to the preservation of financial stability in the euro area. The main solution to the proposed law is thus to provide the legal basis for the entry into force of the third Appendix to the loan contract, which reduces the interest rate and prolongs the duration of the loan to Greece. In line with Greece's reduction in the interest rate for already exhausted tranches of EUR 263.7 million and the extension of the loan's maturity, the total revenue of the state budget will be reduced over the entire drawdown period by EUR 10 million. Given that payments of the remainder of the loan under this Act are not foreseen, but that the entire compensation programme is financed through the European Financial Stability Instrument, the reduction of the interest rate does not affect future tranches. Social Democrats were not among those who competed in describing the cataclysmic dimensions of the crisis. We were not among those who are constantly trying to show Slovenian economic reality worse than it is. However, we have always been among those who have clearly pointed out the measures that make Slovenia's opportunities today and tomorrow worse. That is why we are also reminding us today of the moderation in the assessment of the situation. We agree that the Slovenian problems are structurally different from both Greek and consequently from Cyprus's problems. The structure of our economy is significantly different, we are an export-oriented economy with a surplus in the balance of payments. But the fact is, we have problems that arise mainly from the indebtedness of our economy, and we have to face them. In our opinion, therefore, there is no need to compare Slovenia with one country or another, but the fact is that we have problems, which are moderately fiscal consolidation in smart policies, on the one hand, and focus on economic activity, on the other, manageable for new jobs. That's our direction all the time. In doing so, another circumstance needs to be noted. The symbolic effects of statements made by the former prime minister, and last but not least of the former finance minister on Slovenia's external debt potential, on servicing obligations are evident. The latest experience of the new head of the Eurogroup, Diesselbloem, also shows that statements by high representatives of the countries, as well as by the Eurogroup, have a major impact on the prospects for economic recovery of countries. In this respect, it is all of us, both the government and the Parliament, as well as the media, who have a special responsibility to show problems realistically and moderately. When we spoke in this House about the starting points for the European Union Financial Affairs Council, the issue of support to the new Head of the Eurogroup was completely marginal. The only argument for support was the majority support of the euro area countries. That was the only argument. We hope we've all learned something from this together. The Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u54	Have a nice hello again. The Civil Code will also support the proposed amendments to the Hellenic Republic's loan law. This is to extend the maturity of the repayment from 15 to 30 years and to reduce the interest rate by 100 basis points. With this we have made this loan more realistic and increased the possibility of repayment of this loan. It is right that we are part of the European Union's solidarity system, and Slovakia alone has not joined the Hellenic Republic. In particular, I would like to stress that we are very happy as long as we maintain the conditions so that we do not have to become and apply and write a request for assistance from the European Union fund. I have looked carefully at in the ready-made material what Greece has actually had to meet, what conditions it has reduced the deficit in gross domestic product, the deficit in the budget, and how sharp we are those who have given credit to monitor these measures, which have significantly more drastically affected the lives of all Greeks and are still affecting them. In doing so, I would like to stress that we also see what has been going on with Cyprus lately and how those who give you credit or financial assistance react. Thus, we must not in any way allow ourselves to come into a situation that would be forced to accept different conditions that would significantly aggravate the situation of all of us together, yet we cannot afford to accept such conditions. Therefore, it is also necessary to continue to save in our financial system, to find ways to actually reduce our debt even further, to solve this unsustainable situation in banks, to find ways to improve the operations of state-owned enterprises and thus to ensure some stability in our country and to reduce dependence on potential lenders and to reduce this increase in profits on our commitments, which has been growing in recent times. So, we're going to have to react very quickly, do things that are already taken somewhere, and show the world that we know what we want to be aware of the situation we're in, and then we won't have to be afraid. In fact, both we and the European Union will need these warnings, which are also being transmitted to those countries that currently have no problems, how quickly can you find yourself in a situation where you are no longer in control of your financial situation and are forced to intervene and do the things that you would like to do in the country. I think we have the knowledge that we have the readiness and that these experiences from these countries that have gone too deep have warned us that we will not do similar things and thus maintain our economic sovereignty. The citizens' list will support the proposal, and we hope that we will not have to go for any help as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is followed. Mr. Franz Bogovich will introduce him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u56	Good afternoon, distinguished president. Dear secretary, colleagues who come from the ministries, respected colleagues and colleagues! We will also support the Hellenic Republic's Loan Act in the Slovenian People's Party, this proposal which discusses the amendments and additions to this Act. We have already heard about the content, and this is how we help Greece to pay off its loan for a longer period under more moderate conditions, says 30 years. As colleagues have already mentioned, I think that the school that someone is doing is more valuable if we learn about the mistakes that we are making on other mistakes than on our own, so I think that these experiences in these countries that have gone deep into the crisis and have already needed help are very valuable. Each country is specific, has its own specific problems, so it is essential, as we see, that a proper diagnosis is made first within the country and that medicines are also found for problems in the financial field in which each country enters. As has already been said, when this so-called threesome comes, it is no longer a question of whether we want to accept something, we do not want to accept it, things go so far that one-fifth, one-fourth of the jobs in the state administration can be lost overnight. As we see in the last case, savings may also be lost in banks, so it is essential that we behave responsibly in Slovenia as well. I am sure that there is a much greater consensus here today between us in 2013 in this area, as was the case in 2010, when this economic financial crisis also developed in full Europe. However, our common task is to convey the awareness of this responsibility more widely to our society. In the end, it will not be enough if we agree with this only Members and Members of the coalition, the opposition, but for measures that will not be the most friendly, we will also need to get a wider consensus in society. I am pleased that it is already last year, in the first year and this year the previous government managed to take some fundamental steps. I am also pleased that these social agreements on the key problems that alleviate the situation were reached at the time. However, we certainly have important decisions ahead of us this year. Therefore, I want us to talk seriously and responsibly about the situation in the country, as has already been said here. We are also careful and considerate that we do not impose a problem and make it bigger than it is due to certain daily needs. I also share the opinion of those who have been responsible in the last days and who claim that Slovenians and Slovenians are capable of getting themselves out of this crisis without others writing us a recipe that we must follow, but it requires, as I have already said, a lot of sobriety and responsibility for all of us. The approval of such a law also points to a single support for the seriousness of awareness, so, as I have already said, we will support in the Slovenian People's Party the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hellenic Republic Loan Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled and I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.20. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Dedication of Agricultural Economies, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The amendment of the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies is necessary as it is no longer possible to conduct procedures under the applicable law to determine protected farms. In order to determine protected farms, data on comparable areas were used, which were calculated on the basis of data from the terrestrial cadastral, the type of use of the cadastral culture and the cadastral class of land plots. As from 30 June 2012, these are no longer maintained and a new method of calculating comparable surfaces should be established. With the amendment of the law, the size of the farm, expressed in comparable areas, will be calculated on the basis of the rating of parcels of land, in such a way that one hectare of comparable agricultural areas will be counted as one hectare of agricultural land with a rating of 50 points or more, two hectares of agricultural land with a rating of up to and including 49 or 8 hectares of forest. With the amendment of the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, the threshold for determining a protected farm remains 5 hectares of comparable land. However, it is new to provide that the condition for a protected farm is met where mainly forestry farms, which otherwise reach 5 hectares of comparable areas, also have at least two hectares of comparable agricultural areas. In accordance with the amendment of the parent committee, the amendment provides that the same rules shall apply in the succession procedures for registered same-sex partnerships as those applicable to the succession between spouses. It introduces that the signatures in the Land Book on a Protected Farm can also be deleted and not only entered into the Land Book by virtue of an official duty on the basis of a decision. The Novela makes it more clear which land is less important for the farm, which may be estranged for the payment of the necessary shares. These are forest land, agricultural land with a credit rating of less than 40 credit points, and land which, by purpose, are building land, unless it is the land on which the farm is situated or necessary for the further development of the farm. The amendment also provides for simplification for administrative units that will no longer maintain a register of protected farms, but will only report to the Ministry on the number of protected farms and their total area and the classification of land by comparable area. In accordance with the amended proposal of the law, administrative units will have to verify all protected farms according to the criteria set out in the amendment of the law within five years. However, priority will have to be given to checking farms which are the subject of the abandonment process or legal traffic between the living. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by stressing that the special arrangement for the succession of protected farms under the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies is important, as it prevents the fragmentation of farms and reduces the burden on the holder of the farm, and that is why the Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. The report will be presented by the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies as a working body at its 20th session 14. 3. 2013 Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. A written opinion was sent to the Committee by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments to the draft law on certain articles of the bill. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal of the law, but does not support the proposed solution to raising the threshold, as it considers it contrary to the desire to maintain or prevent the fragmentation of farms. This State Council comment is taken into account in the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, which was also adopted by the Committee. In the debate on the proposal for a law, the representative of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia stressed that the Chamber supports the amendment of the law mainly because of the consequences that would have arisen if the amendment of the law had not been adopted. However, the representative of the Chamber pointed out that the Chamber did not agree to raising the protection threshold again to six hectares as provided for in Article 1 of the bill and that no analysis had previously been carried out to justify such an amendment. The members of the Committee did not discuss the proposed provisions. The Committee defined itself to the amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats to Article 1, which summarises and adopts the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Council of State and the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia. It also adopted amendments to articles 2, 4 and 5 of the bill, which also take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you for presenting the committee report. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Despite the small proportion of Slovenia's GDP, agriculture is more important than it appears at first sight. In addition to economic and environmental functions, agriculture has a social and environmental function and thus ensures rural governance, bringing together all the above-mentioned aspects. The Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies regulates specialities in the succession of agricultural holdings, and the general law on inheritance applies to all the rest. In order to ensure the long-term sustainable development of agriculture, the law is of great importance as it follows the objectives of allowing the acquisition or heritage of the farm to exist on the farm, preventing the fragmentation of medium-sized farms and thus ensuring economically sound farming, ensuring the settlement of the premises and processing of agricultural land and the implementation of the necessary works in the forest. In New Slovenia, solutions that are being introduced are in principle supported, but we have been detained for some of the proposals. For example, up to the lower limit of the criteria for the protection of the farm from five hectares of comparable surfaces to six hectares of comparable surfaces. We believe that we must preserve as many protected farms as possible for the sake of Slovenian agriculture. It's a good thing we withdrew that provision at the board meeting. The amendment shall also specify land which is not relevant to the protected farm when the necessary share is paid to that heir. In practice, it has so far not been clear what less important land is to the farm. This change will relieve many of the procedures related to the succession of protected farms and we support it. The law also introduces some urgent changes in the valuation or calculation of comparable agricultural areas needed to adapt to certain other laws. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. It will be presented by Mr Jože Velikonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u64	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which we are considering today, is a technical law that only eliminates the void created by the adoption of the Real Estate Registration Act, which provides that, as of June 2012, land disaster data on land use types and on cadastral cultures and cadastral classes are no longer maintained. This currently makes it completely impossible to implement the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which lays down the criteria for determining the scope of protected farms. The Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies was adopted in 1995 with a view to achieving the following objectives: to enable the acquirer, that is, to inherit the farm, to exist on this farm, to prevent fragmented medium-sized farms, and also to ensure economically sound farming, to ensure the settlement of the area and the processing of agricultural land, and to carry out the necessary works in the forest. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we estimate that the bill we are considering is one of the important instruments of agricultural policy and has already shown measurable results. In our view, failure to implement it can have a very negative impact on agricultural land processing. We also welcome the removal of the administrative burden for administrative units no longer bound to maintain the register of protected farms, as well as the introduction of an annual report on the situation in this area. For this reason, the proposed amendment of the law will be supported in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u66	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues, colleagues! With the law before us, that is to say, the amendment of the Law on the Succession of Agricultural Economies will not solve all the issues of Slovenian agriculture.It is an important segment if we even want Slovenia and Slovenians to decide on farming at all. The law brings a number of important solutions, especially in the light of the fact that implementation of the law is currently impossible, since data on types of use, cadastral cultures and cadastral classes since 30 June 2012 are no longer available in the Earth's cadastral system. In our opinion, the changing regulations prevent the fragmentation of medium-sized farms and consequently affect the economic power of the agricultural economy and guarantee the further development of Slovenian agriculture, which is particularly important for individual agricultural regions in our country. In our view, it is also very important to remove another administrative obstacle. The obligation to maintain a register of protected farms in administrative units is abolished, but administrative units are obliged to report annually to the Ministry on the number of protected farms on their surfaces. In our opinion, therefore, the law improves the adoption of the 1995 law, which sought to achieve the following objectives: to enable the acquirer, i.e. the heir of the farm, to exist on this farm, to prevent small-scale medium- and large-scale farms and thus to ensure economically sound farming, to ensure the settlement of the area and the processing of agricultural land and to carry out the necessary works in the forest. These objectives are also an important factor in the existence of Slovenian agriculture 18 years later, so we will support the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u68	Your Honor! Before us is the new Law on the Succession of Agricultural Economies. Although there are minor changes, according to government representatives it is necessary, since procedures for determining protected farms can no longer be conducted under the existing law. This is due to the fact that data on comparable areas are no longer kept from 30 June 2012 on the basis of data from the terrestrial cadastra, resulting in a change in the method of determining suitable agricultural areas. The proposal contains other simplifications and innovations. On the proposal of the Social Democrats, which followed the opinion of the Council of State and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment adopted an amendment to address certain uncertainties and shortcomings. With the first part of the amendment, we followed the opinion of the Council of State and proposed deleting the threshold of entry for the protected farm. The profession was also of the opinion that such an increase was not necessary, since it is not justified by any analysis to justify such a change. The change could even leave the possibility for existing protected farms to deteriorate. In the second part of the amendment, we followed the Constitutional Court's decision on the succession of same-sex partners. This is how we proposed the amendment to supplement the article, since we considered it to be an unjustified distinction. In the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendment adopted took into account both the principle of equality and the principle of legal certainty. In view of all of this, we believe that the legal text is now appropriate after all the additions and that we are predicting our support for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Citizens, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Hello, too, on behalf of the Citizen's List! The law on the succession of agricultural holdings is one of the instruments of agricultural policy. This is a measure to prevent the fragmentation of medium-sized farms with the aim of protecting the economic function of the agricultural economy and allowing it to develop further. The aim is to protect the taker who wants to continue farming. The protected farm is by law the rounded whole which has a minimum of 5 hectares of comparable agricultural areas in use. The new criterion of credit points is applied, and so far a type of culture has been used for the calculation, which is no longer being carried out in the cadastral region, and therefore matters relating to the succession of protected farms are on the stand in the courts and it is necessary to amend this law. The amendment of the law also removes the obligation to maintain a register of protected farms in administrative units, which will also make it easier for administrative units to operate in these procedures and, of course, we particularly welcome in the National Gazette. The Court of Auditors revised the effectiveness of the protection of agricultural land as a condition for self-sustainment in 2010 and established the machete attitude of the State and the competent institutions towards this important natural resource. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which is being amended, is an important institution for the protection of agricultural land and the systemic regulation of this area has an important impact on the protection of agricultural land. Members and Members of the Civil Code will be supported by the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u72	Once again, welcome, esteemed Vice President, distinguished secretary, minister, colleague and colleague! We also announce in the Slovenian People's Party support for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which we are considering following a reduced procedure. Since 1995, this instrument of protected farms has been an important instrument of agricultural policy that prevents the fragmentation of farms and, in particular, small or medium-sized farms would still be under a much greater impact of fragmentation if such regulation did not apply. As has already been said today, this change will cover the hole created after the adoption of the amendment to the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies and the Income Act, which took place last year, is said to be in June, as records of types of use, cadastral cultures and cadastral classes have ceased to be kept. That is why it is now difficult to inherit protected farms. As has already been said today, this law removes this deficiency and stipulates that land with a rating rating of more than 50 credit points is considered to be one hectare of comparable surfaces and those below 50 credit points are two hectares of such surfaces. We also agree with the amendments adopted in the very procedure of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and return to these previously established 5 hectares of comparable areas, as well as the other provisions adopted on the Committee itself. In the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore once again support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Succession of Agricultural Economies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good bye to all of you! The amendment of the applicable Act on the succession of agricultural holdings is necessary, according to the applicant, as it is no longer possible to conduct procedures under the applicable law to determine protected farms. For the determination of protected farms, data on comparable areas were used on the basis of land cadastral data, but no longer maintained since 30 June 2012. Therefore, the novelty provides a new criterion for determining the size of the protected farm based on the rating land plots, namely, agricultural areas with a rating of up to 50 represent two hectares of comparable areas and over 50 hectares of comparable agricultural areas. In this way, the law in force adapts to the acquisition of data on landowners. The Novela is another novelty, so that the signatures in the Land Book can be deleted and not only entered after the official duty on the basis of the decision. In order to simplify the work of the courts, the amendment defines less important land for the farm, which may be estranged for the payment of the necessary shares. These are forest land, agricultural land with a rating of less than 40 credit points, and land which is for the purpose of building, unless it is land on which the farm is situated or necessary for the further development of the farm. In addition to other solutions, the proposal also introduces new provisions that administrative units no longer maintain a register of protected farms, but only report on the situation, i.e. the number of protected farms and their area. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies. According to our assessment, the special arrangement for the inheritance of a protected farm is still an important instrument that prevents the fragmentation of medium-sized farms and affects the economic power of the agricultural economy and guarantees its further development and existence. In 2010, the agricultural economy in Slovenia had an average of 6.4 hectares of agricultural land in use, which ranks us on the tail of EU members. Many farms were fragmented precisely in succession procedures and had to be protected by a special law, which was adopted for the first time in 1995. Since we believe that the novel of the current proposal preserves the protection of Slovenian farms from fragmentation, we will support it, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the safety and security laws in rail transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Igor Maher, Minister for Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present a brief explanation in the introduction to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Railway Safety Act. The main purpose of the proposal is to implement European Union legislation in the field of railway safety. The basic objective of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Railway Safety Act is to transpose Directive 2011/18-EU of 1 March 2011 amending Annexes II, V, VI to Directive 2008/57 on the interoperability of the rail system in the Community. Consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Railway Safety Act is necessary as the Republic of Slovenia should implement the Directive by 31. 12. 2011. In view of the delay in the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2011/18, which introduces amendments to the Railway Interoperability Directive, the European Commission sent a reasoned opinion to the Republic of Slovenia in the pretrial procedure for notifying the measures necessary for the transposition of this Directive into Slovenian law, dated 25. Ten. 2012 and initiated a procedure for infringement of the non-implementation of European Union legislation into the national legal order. Official notice, infringement 2012/2221 of 21. 2. 2013 Thus, a change in the current division of railway subsystems into structural and operational sub-systems is transferred to the Slovenian legal order, the declaration and the verification procedure under national rules are added and it is determined who can carry out this procedure. The verification process shall include the production of an assessment and a risk report, interoperability and safety of railway vehicles shall be ensured by the maintenance and control of maintenance. In addition to this, the law also regulates the following: simplifications in the acquisition of property rights on land based on a decision of the Government to establish public benefit; rationalisation and acceleration of works in the field of level crossings of railways; clearer wording of the provisions of the 10th Chapter on executive railway workers, such as the issuance of a driver’s licence; more detailing the conditions for obtaining the right to work at the workplace of an executive railway worker; and provisions that the Public Railway Agency shall carry out the evaluation tasks in Article 22 and the certification authority in Article 19 of this proposal of the Authority. In accordance with Regulation 352/2009-EC, it is necessary from 1. Seven. 2012 to carry out a risk analysis for all rail subsystems and to produce a safety assessment report on this. In accordance with the law governing the field of accreditation bodies, in accordance with the proposed amendment of the law, the security authority will first have to obtain accreditation of the Slovenian accreditation for the performance of the tasks of the certification authority and develop an accreditation scheme for the functioning of the certification body. The material was transmitted to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and the Office of the Government of Law during the inter-departmental coordination phase. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has received comments from the Ministry of Finance and has taken them fully into account, as well as the editorial comments of the Government Office for Legislation, which are largely taken into account. In order to put an end to proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to consider the proposed amendments to the law and its adoption, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to the National Assembly to confirm the appropriateness of this law for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The reason for adopting the amendment of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety and Rail Transport is the alignment with the acquis of the European Community on the introduction and provision of interoperability. In terms of safety and respect for the environment, the European rail network has advantages. Railway networks are designed for national purposes and must adapt to the realities of the single market. Trains and passengers must be allowed to cross free borders within an integrated area. To achieve this, the European Union has improved the interoperability of networks by promoting investment in infrastructure. The main solutions proposed in the law include provisions on the rail system and its subsystems, which will be divided into structural and operational subsystems, namely the rail subsystem and the vehicle subsystem. The verification of the assessment and the risk report on accidents, serious accidents and incidents for the rail system shall be carried over to freight wagons by a provision that these must be properly maintained, in the execution of works under the maintenance procedure, in the public interest, it will be possible to obtain ownership rights on land on the basis of a decision of the Government to establish public benefit. This will accelerate planned investments and maintenance in rail infrastructure. The draft law also contains a clearer text of the provisions of the chapter on enforcement railway workers. The non-disclosure of the provisions on the manner and person issuing the driver’s licence shall be removed and the conditions for obtaining the right to work at the workplace of the executive railway worker shall be clarified, including special medical and other requirements. The safety management system takes into account the effects of the activities of the different carriers on the rail network and therefore contains provisions allowing all railway undertakings to carry out activities in accordance with the applicable European safety regulations. European legislation obliges Member States to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with those Directives, and we support the proposal of the Law on Rail Safety in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Hereafter, in the second reading, we are likely to table some amendments that will contribute to rail safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Railway Safety Act lays down the conditions for safe, orderly and unhindered public rail transport carried out under a uniform technical and technological procedure. The conditions for safe rail traffic relate to the railway line, the trans-European rail system, interoperability, development and management of safety in the rail system, crossings and roads, railway vehicles, transport rules, transport signalling, enforcement railway workers, internal controls, disciplinary measures, emergency rail traffic events and the protection of railways and railway vehicles. The law also applies to inspection of railway safety. Following the adoption of the Railway Safety Act, the European Commission adopted a directive affecting the interoperability of the rail system, namely Commission Directive 2011/18 of 1 March 2011 amending Annexes III, V and VI to Directive 2008/57 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of the rail system in the Community, which is why the law should be amended. The Directive on the interoperability of the European rail system lays down Annexes relating to the rail system and its subsystems, the verification of subsystems using internal rules, the preparation of risk assessments and risk reports, and the provision of interoperability in the safety of railway vehicles, in particular freight wagons. The reason for the amendment of the law is to comply with the acquis of the European Community. European legislation or individual directives oblige Member States to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with those Directives. The deadline for implementing the Directive was 31. 12. 2011. The law lays down provisions on the functioning of the investigating authority to determine the functioning of the investigating authority in the event of accidents, serious accidents and incidents which have not been properly carried over so far. With the amendment of the law, it is intended to simplify the implementation of works by means of maintenance works to the public benefit or to remedy the disadvantage shown by the fact that works built after this process can also be carried out outside the threshold band. As a simplification, it is proposed that the public benefit of leasing or burdening the ownership of the land be obtained by a decision. New solutions are being proposed to regulate the implementation of new out-of-military transitions, to try to rationalise implementation and thereby reduce the cost of making level crossings. The draft law also contains clearer provisions in the chapter on enforcement railway workers, in particular provisions relating to professional training and completion, driver licences and certifications and special medical and other requirements. The main solutions are also: the provision on the rail system and its subsystems, which are divided into structural and operational systems, is incorporated into the law, meaning that the structural subsystem of management and management and signalling is divided into two parts, namely the subsystem along the track and the subsystem on the vehicle, thus changing the descriptions accordingly. A declaration on the verification of subsystems shall be added to the provisions on the declaration and procedure of the EES when the internal legal rules apply. In the process of verification under domestic law, it is laid down that this procedure shall be carried out by the designated authority empowered to carry out those procedures; the mandate shall be given by the Minister once the competence of the authority has been verified by the security authority. The verification process shall also include the preparation of an assessment and a risk report for the rail system; the Minister shall, in accordance with the Commission Regulation, designate an evaluation body in respect of this procedure. In order to ensure interoperability, safety of railway vehicles, in particular freight wagons, a provision is made to ensure that these vehicles are adequately maintained. This is the responsibility of the freight wagon maintenance body. Part of these entities shall be supervised by a certification body, which shall be a security authority, which shall carry out monitoring at least once a year. The supervision must be carried out in accordance with the criteria laid down in the Commission Regulation, while the criteria for operators responsible for the maintenance of other rolling stock are laid down by the Minister in the sub-legislative act. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law at first reading, including in order to avoid possible complications and actions for the non-implementation of individual directives.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, nice greeting! Let me start by saying that we will support the proposed amendment of the Railway Safety Act in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, as we note that the fundamental objective of these amendments is to adapt Slovenian legislation to the new legislative framework of the European Union; it is said, in particular, to what is laid down in the 2011 European Union Railway Safety Directive and this relates to international connectivity in international rail transport within the European Union or, as the Minister has said, interoperability in rail transport. We also note that this Directive concerns the upgrading of directives already in place in 2004 and 2008. As colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups have already found, we also note that the main solutions to the transposition of the Directive relate to provisions on the rail system and its subsystems, which are divided into structural and operational subsystems. We note that these are provisions on the declaration and the verification procedure. We also note that the determination of the process of verification under domestic law is required by determining who may carry out the procedure. In doing so, it is stipulated that the mandate shall be given by the Minister when the competence of the Authority has been verified by the relevant security authority. These main solutions include the fact that the verification process involves the preparation of an assessment and a risk report for the rail system. Also in relation to this procedure, the Minister shall, in accordance with the Commission Regulation, designate the relevant assessment body. We also note that it is envisaged that in order to ensure connectivity in the safety of railway vehicles, in particular freight wagons, it is necessary to transpose the provision that these vehicles should be adequately maintained. For this purpose, the body responsible for the maintenance of freight wagons shall be supervised by the certification body, which shall be the security authority, which shall carry out monitoring at least once a year. The supervision must be carried out jointly with the criteria laid down by the Commission Regulation, while the criteria for operators in charge of the maintenance of other rolling stock are laid down by the Minister in the sub-legislative act. We also note that from the questions raised by the European Commission in its specific pilot project related to the 2004 transposition of the Railway Safety Directive, it is clear from these issues that the law requires us to determine the extent of the investigation carried out by the investigating authority in the event of accidents, serious accidents and incidents and to transpose the provisions of the directive so that the investigating authority actively exchange views and other experience within the European Union. As the rail system is fully defined within the European Union as critical infrastructure, it seems extremely important that knowledge, experience and findings from investigations into various accidents, serious accidents and incidents are also exchanged internationally within the European Union. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also agree with the other changes brought by the novelties of the law, particularly with regard to the level crossings of roads across railways. Then we also agree with the provisions of the chapter on enforcement railway workers, in particular with regard to training, education and upgrading of drivers and their health status. We also agree with the deletion of the Article governing land recovery within four years of the confiscation or limitation of property rights, if they do not apply within this period for the purpose of decommissioning, mainly for maintenance works, as we understand that construction cannot always be started within four years, and we also agree with the simplifications in the acquisition of land ownership based on the Government's decision to establish public benefit. It is recalled, however, that a safeguard should be put in place to ensure the return of these lands in cases where the railway economy or the Ministry of Infrastructure would not have the intention of carrying out the relevant maintenance works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present once again! With the entry into the European Union, we have committed ourselves to respect the legal order of the European Community. We are therefore obliged to harmonise our legislation in a timely manner in the course of amending European legislation, which is the main purpose of the proposed amendment to the Railway Safety Act. Although Slovenia has already implemented this harmonisation, the European Commission considers that the individual provisions have not been properly transposed. The Government has thus drawn up a new proposal that provides for clearer provisions on the functioning of the investigating authority in the event of accidents, as well as some simplifications in the procedures for the execution of maintenance works for the public benefit of the implementation of new out-of-military crossings and in the procedure for the authorisation of drivers or executive railway workers. The European Union has put in place uniform rail safety rules and standards for the whole rail system in order to ensure that the common safety objectives are achieved. Rail transport is much safer than road transport in view of the number of passengers transported and the freight transported, which is largely offset by the fact that the human factor is minimal and thus the most common cause of road traffic accidents is practically excluded. Although rail safety is very high and railway accidents occur relatively rarely, the consequences may be, on average, 82 passengers on each passenger train, weighing an average freight train of 800 tonnes and, in the event of an accident in the transport of dangerous substances, catastrophic. The most exposed are, of course, road-rail crossings, where accidents occur most. And it is in the field of the implementation of out-of-military transitions that the bill brings useful solutions and simplifications that will ensure greater transport security. The longevity of Slovenian railway infrastructure and the density of traffic are more likely to occur. The modernisation and development of Slovenian railway infrastructure or the integration of Slovenia into the European fast track network will further increase the safety of rail transport. Therefore, we expect the Government to update the national programme for the development of public rail infrastructure as soon as possible and to start rapidly with the implementation of the necessary infrastructure projects. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members! Today we have the fourth of the transport laws adopted by the Government at the end of last month. Unlike the three that we discussed yesterday, the amendment of the Law on Rail Safety does not introduce a reorganisation of the operation of the Ministry or of one of its constituent bodies, but is primarily intended to comply with the acquis of the European Union and some other minor changes. We therefore see from the proposed amendments to the Railway Safety Act that a key purpose is to amend the law transposing a directive of the European Union which affects the safety and interoperability of the rail system. The second, and also a very important reason for the change, is the inadequate transposition of the Railway Safety Directive, which provides for the functioning of the Investigative Authority in the event of accidents and incidents. In order to transpose this Directive, Slovenia has received a reasoned opinion from the European Commission that it has not been properly transposed. The other amendments relate in particular to the rationalisation of the performance of out-of-military crossings and thus to the reduction of the costs of their implementation and the simplification of the performance of maintenance works in cases where construction works extend beyond the lane. Some other amendments to the law also concern the professional training of certain railway workers, permits and certifications for drivers and other requirements. Some, in our view, are unnecessary and do not have any basis in European regulations, such as extending the regime has been certified by drivers to other executives. Some changes may also be under-completed, so in the Slovenian People's Party we predict that if the law is given a green light today, we will propose amendments to this law. In addition, we believe that some other provisions of this law should be revised, which are not included in the amendments, in particular those that cause unnecessary costs and complications in the working processes of rail transport. Therefore, we propose that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, together with its professional services, re-examine the law under consideration and, if necessary, prepare new amendments and additions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Rail Safety is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Republic of Slovenia was warned days ago from Brussels that the European Commission will refer Slovenia to the Court of Justice of the European Union because it has not yet notified the European Union of national measures for the transposition of the Railway Interoperability Directive. The deadline for transposition expired at the end of December 2011. This is already the second case of the referral of Slovenia to the court due to rail legislation. In accordance with the new European rules which entered into force after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Commission could also require a fine for Slovenia for the non-transfer of European legislation, but has not yet decided on this measure. The Interoperability Directive amends the description of rail systems and lays down procedures for their verification. The aim of this legislation is to improve the competitiveness of the rail sector. It establishes a regulatory framework for the technical coordination of European railways and removes technical and administrative barriers, for example through common authorisation procedures for the entry into service of railway equipment. The non-implementation of this Directive, according to the Commission, means that the national authorities designated to carry out verification procedures do not apply the same legal framework. This, however, hampers the free movement of railway components and equipment on the European Union market. This is why the competent ministry has prepared a proposal for a new Law on Railway Safety, which brings the implementation of the European Directive into Slovenian law. The basic objective of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act is therefore to adapt Slovenian legislation to the new legislative framework of the European Union. This stems from the amendments to the Directive and thus from the alignment with the acquis of the European Community on the introduction and provision of interoperability. The Commission’s questions on the transposition of the Railway Safety Directive, as set out in the questionnaire, the EU Pilot Project, and also related to the Investigative Authority, revealed that it was necessary to further determine what the scope of the investigation would be. It is thus laid down that the Minister shall lay down a way of investigating accidents, serious accidents and incidents, by means of which compliance with European legislation will be achieved. In carrying out maintenance works in public interest, there is a weakness in the fact that buildings constructed after this process can also reach outside the lane, which leads to the need to obtain suitable land for such an object, and at the end stage also to decommissioning, which may also lead to longer time delays. The bill also seeks to amend certain provisions relating to level crossings, thereby streamlining the implementation of new ones and ensuring the rationalisation of maintenance and control of existing transitions. The amendments to the articles on enforcement railway workers also seek to eliminate the uncertainties of individual provisions. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be supported by the proposal for a new Law on Rail Safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we have written into our programme that our transport policy should aim to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, day-to-day migration through public transport means and consequently contribute to emission reductions; to redirect the transport of goods to railways and to regulate the main transport routes of daily migration. This is especially true for Ljubljana, where we can make sure that our thinking on the necessity of transport should be changed every day only by means of personal vehicles. The changes brought by these novelties in the field of rail transport are due to the transposition of the 2011 Directive and, in a broader sense, to increasing safety and efficiency in the field of rail transport. If we want to change people's relationship to train travel in Slovenia, it will first be necessary to modernise railway infrastructure and to increase the travel speed of trains, while changing people's migration habits so that public rail transport is accepted as a good and cheaper alternative to passenger vehicles. In New Slovenia we hope that this breakthrough will take place as soon as possible. We are aware, however, that this breakthrough is conditional on large financial contributions which Slovenia alone cannot make at this moment. We are therefore also looking for the possibility of a public-private partnership that would, in particular, allow people in the middle and lower income class to have a affordable and safe mode of transport. Members of New Slovenia will therefore be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Happy Meh has the word, he's got the mag behind him. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u92	The law we are starting today is certainly important and, in some ways, demanding. Let me somehow define myself by Article 33, where I agree that the Government can declare by decision that the land we need to regulate rail infrastructure is a public benefit. But I'm asking the question of how to control the government's conclusions. I hereby base this on the fact that the Government has adopted a regulation on the placement of less demanding facilities in the space and thus legalised many black builders and thus made it extremely difficult to regulate the premises and also to preserve the landscape. Actually, it's unacceptable. It also seems to me that in some way we should take into account the conclusions of the government that we can trust, and in some way we can control how it works. Second, Article 35 speaks of level crossings, out-of-war crossings, construction and abandonment of the construction of an out-of-war crossing. Within one year, the controller must develop a priority level crossing system, which I find a difficult task if the transitions are very large or unnecessary. However, with the 7th point of this Article, the costs of regulating out-of-military crossings, crossings, burden the development of rail and road infrastructure. It's actually logical and logical to make level crossings, out-of-war crossings. The problem is that it would be good to assess how much resources we have at our disposal, how much resources we will spend on this, and how much resources we will expect in the future, and where we will get these funds. Therefore, it does not argue that the enforcement of the law has no financial implications for the state budget and for other public funds. I think that out-of-military transitions are a big financial asset, and in some ways we should also define that we know roughly what we are adopting or what the costs will be when we adopt this law. I think it is also right that, in Article 17, in which the responsible can, however, decide whether or not to allow vehicles to be moved from other European countries, we have written this down. I also agree with the restriction of four years to draw this limit. And that's what I'd like to say at the railways. The railroad is an extremely old system. It would probably be right to actually decide in the spatial plans that we have, which are the corridors that we still need for infrastructure, and where we do not need these spaces or these corridors. In particular, I would like to say that when we want to obtain agreement for a spatial act in the construction of an individual spatial act, for example, in the Municipality of Velenje, there is still a corridor preserved where there can never be a railway, because it is a built-up city. In a way, it would have to be very precise to define what those plots are, which are those areas that we're going to keep, which we're not, and we're going to release. In this case, of course, it is also the sale of this land, the return of these land, depending on how these land was obtained. Otherwise, I think the law is suitable for further application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hočevar, prepare Mr Franc Jurša and then Mr Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Hello again! I also agree that changes and additions are necessary. I will also support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration in the spirit of delaying the implementation of the European Directive or that it has not been properly transposed into our legal order. I hope that what is now being written will meet the requirements of the European Union. When we talk about rail safety, it may not be too much to say what we get from Slovenian railways, that in the last 21 years, 195 people have died on the roads across the railway. Of course, anything that contributes to greater security in this area deserves our support. It is also true that the country, with the construction and modernisation of rail infrastructure, is late that we have spent a lot of tax money on highway construction in recent years. I hope or expect that the Government will pay greater attention in the future, and above all more transparently, to direct funds towards the construction of railway infrastructure. In doing so, I would touch on one case in practice that shows what should not be happening. The restoration of the Grosuplje–Kočev regional railway line is still under way, but also after the new route the vehicle will be only 60 kilometres per hour, which is a disaster, to say the least, and by setting a more favourable route could also drive a hundred kilometres per hour. In the middle of the renovation, I also came up with the idea that passenger traffic would be revived on this route, but it will probably be quite uninteresting for passengers at 60 kilometers an hour. I hope that these provisions in this law will also help us to pursue reconstruction and actual projects in practice more carefully in the future, and in particular in a way that will actually help to increase the interest of rail transport and not vote in favour of projects that may also be favoured by some of the uncles in the background. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Only Bevk, and the Magi is behind him. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, it is necessary to adopt a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act, because we have been late for more than a year with this amendment of the law, since the Directive of the European Union was adopted in 2011 and the time limit for the adoption of the law was the end of the same year as the Directive was adopted. Mr Minister said earlier that we had already received a warning at the end of last year by the competent authorities of the European Union, and that penalties could also be followed if we did not comply with our legislation with European legislation. That's our main task. The novel has also brought some other changes, which I personally support, mainly thinking about putting things into space faster here. Indeed, in the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the deletion of an article governing land recovery within four years of the seizure or limitation of property rights, if they do not apply within this period for the purpose of expropriation, as we understand that construction cannot always be started within four years. We also agree with the simplifications in the acquisition of land ownership rights on the basis of the Government's decision to establish public benefit. Indeed, it is not always possible to start construction very quickly, even for our situation is a very short period of four years. If we look at how we plan to place ourselves in the space or even the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper 27km long, which we are transferring from one financial perspective to another financial perspective, we do not know now whether we will be able to build this by the end of this financial perspective, which follows, it is said, by the end of 2020. Let's take a look at some historical information. The Danube-Ljubljana-Trst route, which is almost 600 kilometers long, was planned in 1837, started in 1841, and was built in four years for these 600 kilometers and built until 1857. Thus, 16 years; substantially earlier than we in Slovenia built a highway cross. Or, say, the construction of the Bohinj railway, 158 kilometers, which was built in six years. But let's say the Zidani Bridge-Zagreb-Sisak: 126 kilometers. It was built in six years. And in the 19th century! I think we can ask ourselves what we are doing in Slovenia today in the 21st century, when we are not even able to decide on the construction of a 27km long second track between Divest and Trieste. I hope that the Ministry responsible for infrastructure, as well as the government as a whole, will make important decisions to start larger infrastructure projects and finally launch economic development in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr Mirko Brulc, followed by Mr Andrej Chuš and then Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, all present! The debate on railways is always interesting and is, even as far as finance and everything else is concerned, a bottomless pit. Of course, I will support the Railway Safety Act, because I think that this legislation needs to be synchronized with European legislation. Our railway – now speaking from experience like my predecessors, would have mentioned the Sokka track – was useful when there was an earthquake in neighbouring Italy and the Pontebian track was closed, and then Italian trains were driving along this Sokka track. Today, the entire track is a large technical museum, so it will also have to be considered to keep this route alive, if not for the other, at least for the tourist trains. Because, as a colleague earlier said, special trains that drive 60 an hour could be just tourist trains, no one else. Only Bevk said earlier, at what time did they build the soviet track? Let me mention that the Solkan bridge with numbered stone blocks was built within 17 days and sat just over an inch [2 cm]. With that technique 102 years ago, they were so expedient! But with all the Primors, the SCT and so on, which of course is gone today, we are not able to build any smart tracks in a year and a half or two! Also with regard to safety and all that this law contains, the exchange of data with neighbouring countries, the regulation of freight wagon equipment and so on, I think this is an absolutely necessary action, so I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Ms. Marija Plevčak, Dr. Ljubica Jelusič, and then Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, should be prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u100	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The basic objective of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act is to adapt Slovenian legislation to the new legislative framework of the European Union. As several debaters have already said, we are very late in this and, if there are no other reasons, there is a reason to support at least in avoiding the punishment of the European Union. Nevertheless, the proposed law, or changes, has quite a few good things. I would like to point out that, in carrying out the works under the maintenance work procedure, there is a public benefit to the extent that there is a weakness in the fact that the buildings that are being built after this process can also reach outside the threshold, which makes it necessary to obtain suitable land for such a facility and, at the end of the phase, also decommissioning, which may also lead to longer time delays. Amendments to the Act shall make it possible, in the course of the maintenance works procedure, to obtain property rights on land on the basis of a decision of the Government to establish public benefit, for works or facilities carried out under that procedure and which must also be carried out outside the threshold band due to their design and functional characteristics. The restriction governing the refund of landed land shall be removed within four years of the withdrawal, or the limitation of property rights, provided that such limitation does not apply within that period for the purpose of decommissioning. This restriction is inadequate, since it is not possible, unfortunately, to always start within four years by building for various objective reasons that the investor cannot influence. The draft amendments also included provisions relating to level crossings across the line. The solutions proposed relate in particular to rationalising the implementation of level crossings so that all the powers relating to them – this is the way of insurance, the prioritisation, the establishment of new ones – as regards existing or upgraded public infrastructures, are transferred to the public railway infrastructure manager. Furthermore, rationalisation is complemented by establishing that level crossings must be carried out as out-of-war, when the section of infrastructure on which the transition lies is built up, thereby generally setting a time for the transition to be carried out. The draft law is also in line with the legal order in force and with other provisions relating to transport safety. Of course, it is very positive that we are discussing the issue of safety in transport, not only in the field of rail infrastructure, but also more broadly, but I note that we are not talking enough about the quality of rail services. Many debaters have already disputed the problem of poor infrastructure development in Slovenia. Here I would also like to point out as Ptujčan that the average ride on the Ptuj-Ljubljana route takes on average three hours in one direction. If I go in the car, I'll come in and out. That way, we can almost imagine what it's like. At the same time, I would point out the importance of updating the Ptuj-Ormož-Hodoš line, which I hope will be heard by this government from the centre, and that something will also be done for the lower Podravje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The next word is Dr. Ljubica Jelusič, which is prepared by Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, mag. Jana Jenka and then Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. As it is said, I support these amendments to the law because I am aware of the need to follow the actions of the European Union and to harmonise our legislation with the European directives. However, I must express my regret that we are in the process of correcting very important legislation on transport safety, on the initiative of the European institutions and less on the initiative of our own reflection. In particular, I would like to draw attention to that part of this law, which speaks or deals with possible accidents on railways, and the law has much to say about the way in which these accidents are investigated. But there is one area that has not yet been addressed in our country, namely, those accidents that could have occurred in the tunnels through which the railways run. In the tunnels through which roads pass, special types of protection or security were managed by fire brigades, either professional or voluntary fire companies, to take care of the entrances and exits of the transport safety tunnels together with the Motorway Company. So when there's an accident in the tunnels, special on-call teams of firefighters and paramedics are ready for this. There are no such agreements and plans between the fire brigades and the Slovenian railways. In the past, discussions have been held to establish some kind of permanent on-call or to set up those voluntary or professional firefighting companies or society of general interest that could be specially qualified to rescue railway tunnels, but this step has not yet taken place. I also point out this because there are certain hopes and possibilities for building a second track, not only on the surface, but also under the ground, that is, in the form of a tunnel, and it would be wise that this protection, that is to say, the knowledge of how to solve in cases of possible accidents in this tunnel, would be included in the construction plan itself and would not start to wonder only when the tunnel was built and accidents could occur. In particular, I would like to point out to the representatives of the Government that in this law and also in the operational work, more attention should be paid to possible accidents in the tunnels as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you for saying that again. Nice greetings to all, especially to the Minister! I will support the law myself, like the parliamentary group, and join all those who find that some of the solutions that apply in other countries should also be introduced into our rail system. A number of you have pointed out why we are actually slowly amending this legislation and adapting it to others. Maybe this is also due to the fact that we have slow trains, few trains, and that's why security is still so good – now I'm a little sarcastic, but that's a fact and it stands. It was already mentioned the "speed" of our trains and I note for myself that the train from Mosta to Soča to Ljubljana in that period after the opening came sooner than now, then for safety we really can't be afraid because the accident is almost impossible. Trains are also getting smaller and, from this point of view, these problems may be less exposed. However, some things need to be pointed out, including by other colleagues, that little investment is being made in this infrastructure, but we can say that not only did we not invest in this infrastructure at some point, but we destroyed it. Remember the route we had to Kranjska Gora, to Jesenic, from Jesenic to Kranjska Gora to Trbiz was a route, Trbiz is now the largest hub in this part of Europe, and our access to this node has been transformed into a cycling track. Everyone can ask themselves how to turn this around — never again! The Kobarid-Cedad route was also built, and it was in operation – it was also discontinued. I'm warning you about some of the cases we know. From this point of view, it was clear that the policy had in the past been focused on road transport, because the collection of oil and oil derivatives tax was more favourable than the railways that had always been subsidised. Obviously, no one has ever seen this direct acquisition of an advantage, no one has ever been aware of this sustainable aspect that the railways bring in in the long run. Clearly, in the past there has also been no talk about railways being a major opportunity in cross-border transport, and from this point of view, support for railways as such, and in particular some new constructions and improvements are negligible, and some tracks have been more destroyed than construction. It is true, however, that the critical mass that can use railways in our space is relatively small, and also from this point of view, investing in this is very expensive. But in spite of everything, at least of what has already been established in the past also under other systems – it did not make sense that it had been abandoned and somehow destroyed, because corridors are the most important part in the installation of some infrastructure projects and when we lose them, there are virtually no new ones. But these are other things that don't specifically touch this law. As everyone has determined, the law is needed and we will support it in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is also given by the proposer, i.e. the Government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Perhaps a few brief comments, since it was said that the law wrongly determines that it does not interfere with budgetary resources. No, because it deals with security and sets certain standards and coordinates with European directives. All activities related to modernisation, such as at level crossings, are proceeding according to plan, as they were set up. For example, within the framework of the project of modernisation of the level crossings of Prague-Hodoš, 32 level crossings will be abolished, 11 level crossings will be abolished – i.e., a total of 43 – due to the execution of the out-of-military transition at the same location, 14 subways or access points and 5 overpasses will be built. In this way, all these matters will continue, and we are actually legally in line with the European directives. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Regulation on simple facilities, which has so upset the Slovenian public and the municipalities, has nothing to do with these matters at present, not at all, with regard to interventions outside these areas and procedures, how it can actually be done outside the threshold corridors. In fact, this does not have a direct link, the matter is completely separate and is regulated at the municipal level, and this matter has other legal bases on which it is regulated spatially. As for the tunnel accidents, I must say so. In the technical specifications for interoperability of tunnel safety, all of these tunnel upgrades and constructions are taken into account. It is said that all new investments in tunnels and tunnels and security requirements are in line with all European standards and are in fact already taken into account in the design. This will also be evident when this will be in public debate. So: yes, of course, think of this, they are not forgotten about these matters and it will also have to be made clear in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Jank Webr, President of the National Assembly, to further explain the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for the amendment of the Decree establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly, adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 46th meeting on 20 March and proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of the National Assembly, follows the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in early March. This legal novel has changed the titles of certain ministerial functions and has also redefined the working areas of these ministries. By adopting the proposed amendments to the Decision, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will be renamed the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Interior into the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, and the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Sport and Youth, and the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. One of the most important changes is the establishment of the Committee on Culture and, in accordance with these amendments, they are being amended accordingly or they redefine the definition of the tasks of working bodies. In accordance with the agreement at the meeting of the College, an additional consultation was subsequently identified on the more precise definition of the proposed powers of the Committee on Culture. The Committee will therefore, in accordance with the proposed amendment of the national communities within its competence, without prejudice to the role and tasks of the Commission for National Communities, also consider proposals for acts and issues of national communities, as well as proposals for acts affecting the use of language, cultural activities and the information and media activities of national communities. I propose that this decree be adopted by the National Assembly, will be used by the appointment of the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies and, of course, I propose that you also support the amendment of the national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. The new coalition drafted a new government law, which resulted in a reallocation of powers between individual departments. Some cases have been brought forward, such as the Prosecutor's Office of Internal Affairs under justice, some changes have also been made in public administration and, of course, a key change in the creation of a new resort. While these changes are not in the sense of anti-crisis action by the Government, in fact nothing important in this area is happening and does not mean any improvement; rather, because the new Ministry is bringing new costs to the work of the Government. I think it's symbolism that only brings extra costs. The result of the Government Act is also changes in the structure of the National Assembly. In addition to these changes due to the amendment of the Government Act, some other amendments have been made, particularly to the additional president of one working body and to an additional eight vice-presidents, which also does not constitute any rationalisation, but mainly a cost-incentive. In our view, these things were more or less unnecessary. Nevertheless, in the work of the National Assembly, at least in the beginning, and especially in the work of the Government, there will be delays due to these restructurings, transfers of powers, acquisitions and similar matters. Despite all these increases that have taken place, it is unlikely that these changes will be sufficient to dry everyone's tears in the coalition because they were unable to realize their ambitions and expectations. We will support the amendment of the national community that they have tabled to this decree. But we will not oppose the ruling of the government or the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable President of the National Assembly, who is proposing this decree, Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed decree. I should like to point out that this is actually the third time we have met with the Decision on the Establishment and Functioning of Work Bodies. If you remember, at first we set up four working bodies so that we could start working properly. That was December 21, 2011. On 28 January 2012, we adopted the basic text, which formed 20 working bodies. We are now meeting in the third with amendments and additions to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of Working Bodies. It is clear from the wording of the decree that labour bodies are established in the National Assembly in order to monitor the situation in particular areas, to prepare policy decisions in these areas, to establish views on individual issues and to address proposals for laws and other acts of the National Assembly. It is therefore not the purpose of the decision to act on the counter-crisis of conscience, but it is the determination to set up working bodies that can deal with such anti-crisis measures. So much for that. It is also very interesting how an individual coalition sets out the work areas in the Government first and then in the Law on State Administration properly defines individual tasks of which of the working bodies. While the Rules of Procedure provide for a limited number of those to be held by the National Assembly in all references. Let me just say, in comparison, that the number of working bodies can fluctuate very much. So far, with the first decree, we have had the smallest number of working bodies. There were 20 of them. In particular, I stress that I do not count investigative commissions. The maximum number of working bodies was 1996–2000. There were 28 of them at the time. Well, after 23, let's say, in the first term, in the 2008-2011 mandate, otherwise we will now have twice the 21st term as in the 2000-2004 mandate. And I still have 2004-2008 when there were 24. If we want to save at the expense of the Presidential and other parts, then we should ask ourselves how it is to finance a number of investigative commissions that have also been set up within individual mandates. Thus this determination can be seen from two opposing angles. Let me draw attention to the fact that individual work areas can be treated very differently. For example, the area on which we are particularly committed to the Social Democrats is an equal opportunity: in the 1992-1996 mandate, we had a special Commission for Women's Policy, in the 1996-2000 mandate of the Commission for Equal Opportunities Policy. There were also the most working bodies, if you remember, 28. That is why a major reduction was made within the mandate 2000-2004 and the area of equal opportunities was placed in internal affairs, as was the area of disabled persons, for example, in the Labour Committee. Thereafter, within the 2004-2008 mandate, a policy of equal opportunity was placed in the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. Now, as an interesting point, I point out in the work of the parliamentary working body that this area is still registered with the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, but if you look at how it is with the departments of individual ministries, the same opportunities are included in the Ministry of Labour, the family, the disabled and equal opportunities. Thus, this change is in fact linked to the idea of a coalition each time, where a topic should be strongly judged. Similar changes in integration and disunity are experienced by the Ministry or the Committee on Justice, Home Affairs and Public Administration. As you can see, according to the news, we will now have a committee for justice only and internal affairs will be reunited with public administration and local self-government. Such a change in operation seems useful to me whenever the objective is to achieve a more balanced relationship between the work of individual committees. And for the committee I mentioned last, I'm sure he does. If we only remember how many meetings the Committee on Justice, the internal public administration policy in the 2008-13 term or before. Indeed, statistics on the exact number of meetings, the course can be monitored in one way or another in each report, but something that has not yet happened, at least, is the creation of a special working body dedicated solely to culture, which is also linked to the re-establishment of the Ministry of Culture. This seems particularly important to me, especially because of the tasks that this committee is still waiting for. What might be said in this regard is that they have combined and divided ministries that have dealt with education in the whole vertical or separate primary and secondary education, and specifically tertiaryly, science has generally been associated with tertiary education, so that these particulars are certainly very interesting. If we go to look at the definitions of work areas within the labour bodies themselves, I think it is a very interesting difference in the definition of the work area of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, when the same coalition practically defined for the first time in this composition a smaller scope of work and work area than in the current decision. However, this Decision does not change the powers of this Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. It is therefore certainly also a question of how precise, detailed, fragmented, so to speak, to define the competences of the individual working body. Social Democrats were not, for example, committed to talking specifically about individual problems that could be involved in two working bodies. I'm referring to the issue of human trafficking. However, we will certainly support the amendment proposed by the representatives of the national communities, especially because the current dictatorship is such that the tasks to be given by the Committee on Culture are specifically mentioned by members of different national communities. This is therefore not only directed at the area covered by the compulsory working body of the National Assembly. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support both the amendment and the decree in its entirety, and we expect that the working bodies will do well the task for which they are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The decision on the establishment and tasks of work bodies brings some changes to the level of distribution of resources, and one of these is the separation of the so-called mega ministry, or the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, by returning to the Ministry of Culture. The main argument was that the culture within the entire ministry was at the very edge and that only as a stand-alone institution could represent, represent, maintain, and care for culture within and outside national borders. Although we ourselves note that Slovenian culture is still flourishing and enriching our society today, that there is no less wealth and that nothing less inspires us, as some have predicted at the merger of the Ministry of Culture with the Ministry of Education, and although it has also been made clear that the form cannot determine the content and that any different interpretations have only had a demogosical note, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in accordance with the practice so far that the coalition is governed by the Ministry's logic of action and that it also assumes responsibility for the effective functioning of ministries, we have not opposed your proposal. We will also not oppose the proposal to set up a Committee of the National Assembly on Culture. This is an opportunity for us to further monitor the coalition's aspirations to improve the spatial and financial conditions for the work of cultural creators and harmonisation and to strive to reduce cultural dependence on budgetary resources. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also not oppose the proposal for the Internal Affairs Committee to be renamed the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government in line with the creation of a new Ministry, and also that we now have a single Justice Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u116	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I will begin by presenting the position of the Group: the time in which we live is difficult. To say that it is now a recession and an economic crisis is almost pointless is more appropriate to say that it is a difficult time. During these difficult times, we also had our first early elections in the Republic of Slovenia in 2011. These early elections were won by a political party that was unable to form at the time, along with some coalitions and take our Slovenia from these difficult times. At that time, we set up the National Assembly — as well as the colleague Majda Potrate — the working bodies of the National Assembly. Then a new coalition of right-centred parties was formed, and then we also created new working bodies, which in some ways have been adapted to the field of ministry. In view of what happened this year and a new coalition has been formed, a proposal has also been prepared for the composition of ministries, the working areas of ministries have changed slightly, and the working bodies of the National Assembly have changed as a result. We have also discussed these issues at various levels, and together we have decided to propose a proposal to the National Assembly, such as the proposal for a decree establishing the working bodies of the National Assembly. I will conclude my short presentation with the following: we have confirmed the government team, we have also confirmed the framework of the ministry, and this time we also confirm the working bodies of the National Assembly. On the inside, we will also discuss this decision. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we will confirm the proposed decree as well as the amendment, and then we will work together in the National Assembly, in the working bodies. I hope and I'm sure we'll do well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Group of Positive Slovenia, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u118	After this historic review of how we have established, separated and so on, what we have done with these committees, I can only say that in Positive Slovenia we have also considered this proposal for a decree on the establishment and tasks of working bodies, and in the first place we welcome that the National Assembly will finally receive after one year also the Committee on Culture, which is an integral part of what the National Assembly has already decided on, and this is that we have also established a new resort with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will also support the amendment that has been tabled on this decree, and I believe that this will entrenched all the foundations so that the National Assembly will be able to carry out its work at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Following is a debate between the Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Get ready for Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u120	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. In view of the fact that I have presented the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and, through this thinking, which I have given, I have also said the most basic things, I would no longer be involved in this matter in detail today. I hope that we will all support this together, or even at a time when we will vote on it, we will also confirm the matter, both the decree and the amendment proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin, followed by Mr Jani Möderndorfer and then Mr Dragutin Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! Because we have not applied for the position of the groups of Members, so only two sentences. In setting up the Committee on Culture in view of changes in the structure of the government, we have noticed that the area of the national communities has disappeared somewhere, but this is an important pillar of our existence and development; not only ours, but, as has already been pointed out today, also national communities that are not indigenous. That is why we have already proposed this addition to the College and there has been a consensus solution presented by Mr President of the National Assembly. So, I thank you for at least understanding that both the amendment and the decree are fully supported and our support will go both to the amendment and to the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word or is not present, I note. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you. I just want to thank once again everyone who knew that you would support the decree and especially the amendment of the national community. I therefore think that the conditions for us to start working as soon as possible in the working bodies of the National Assembly will really be laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a debate on the 5th point of the motion for a decree and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 27 March 2013. I am putting to the debate item 5 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody want to talk? If no one wants to discuss it again, I conclude the debate. So we have also concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 12th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 14.10. So at 2.10 p.m., we proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u126	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I ask you to take your seats because we will proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, and I ask you before that to check the functioning of your voting devices and to note if anything is wrong. Otherwise, we continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law. We are moving on to a decision, and I would like to point out to you that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, that is, 46 or more. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 15. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. We conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Act of the Hellenic Republic. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments to the assembly could not be tabled and therefore we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Succession of Agricultural Economies. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill proposal, and since the amendments to the amended proposal were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me of any non-compliance. The bill is so harmonised and we vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a broken 5th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Safety. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] The decision that the law is appropriate for further consideration shall be adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 3. 2013 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group to point 5. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendment. We are now deciding or moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment we have just adopted would have made it inconsistent. That's why we're voting. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, for 61, for 1. [[The vote is 61.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Prevc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of Mr Mikhael Prevc on the economic measures taken by the Government. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, for 36, for 45. [[The vote is 36.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act is suitable for further consideration. I have noticed, however, that one of the Members wishes to explain his voice. Anybody else want some? No, no, no. You have the floor, Mr. Blacky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, let me say that we will support this law. There are many arguments for support. Those who spoke against this novel yesterday, however, mentioned two reasons against: the first is the abolition of the Public Agency for Transport Safety and the second deletion of Article 67, which speaks of the fact that the first aid test, which is a prerequisite for accession to the driving licence, can only be carried out in the competent organisation of the Red Cross. These arguments cited do not hold judgment. As regards the latter, the first aid and the Red Cross, it must first be said that this provision is unconstitutional. On the other hand, the first-aid knowledge test of the competent Red Cross organization is no longer what it once was. It has been born to obtain a certificate that makes the budget of this organisation a little bit more difficult each year for some 100,000 euros, and the knowledge of the participants in transport worse from year to year. This is also evidenced by statistics that show that more than 80 % of road users are not able to properly provide first aid to the victims. This provision, which is unconstitutional on the one hand and which provides for the monopoly of one of the organisations on the other, should be amended by an amendment. This provision would be removed and a better quality of education would be provided in the context of the examination of the driving licence. This provision is, for example, such as if, for example, the Auto-Moto connection of Slovenia was granted in the law exclusively the right to carry out driving examinations only for them. The second argument was the abolition of the Public Agency for Transport Safety. The Agency shall not be terminated, it shall be recast as there were no reasonable reasons for its establishment in 2010 and 2011; it shall be fully budgetaryly financed; it shall not have its own revenue. In the past, its operation did not constitute any new added value. In the National Assembly, the President – and also the leaders of the parliamentary groups – received this month's report on the fact that many irregularities have been identified in the functioning of this agency, and there is not one more criminal investigation, especially in the area of examinations. In short, a lot of money has been spent on some unproductive action. For example, for the Constitution, a train can't, some 100,000 euros, which has caused the co-financing of other non-profit organisations that have done quality work in this area. The proposal, which is in this novel, makes sense, ensures the functioning of the body within the Ministry, and this is also one of the reasons why this amendment should be supported. I understand that the Social Democrats, because they were at the time of the Pahor government, when these agencies and other para-State institutions were being set up around the world, cannot support this. However, I do not understand this conversion to the party of Gregor Virant and Viktor Karl Erjavac, who, until recently, supported this direction after rationalisation and more efficient operation. We will support the amendment in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. The 84 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 30 votes in favour against 52. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal is closed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Roads. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act is suitable for further consideration. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. 84 present is a Member and Members, 76 voted against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a working body. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act is suitable for further consideration. I'm opening the vote. We vote Attending 84 is a Member and Members voted 33 to 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] The decision was therefore not adopted and the legislative procedure is closed. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by 2. 4:00 p.m. Goodbye.
