ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 10th regular meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following colleagues: Jasmina Opec, Maja Dimitrovski, Alenka Bikar, Borut Ambrožič, Peter Vilfan, Roman Jakič, Srečko Meh, Roberto Battelli and Dragan Bosić. At the meeting on the 1st item of the agenda, I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister-General and the Secretary-General of the Government to attend the 20th item of the agenda, and I invited the representative of the State Election Commission, the candidate for Mr Branko Kurnjek, Dr. Senko Plicanič, the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr. Janez Šušteršič, the Minister of Finance, the candidate for the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasto Nussdorfer, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, the candidate for the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors. Jorga Kristjan Petrovič and representatives of the government to all other items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference on Friday 18 January 2013. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda, but we have received a proposal to extend the agenda. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 10th meeting should be extended by means of a proposal for an act authorising a parliamentary inquiry to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and for the determination and assessment of the actual situation for determining the liability of public function holders, in view of the suspicion that they have cooperated in the control of the Slovenian banking system and in the direct or direct influence through state ownership or through state authorities and regulators on decisions in the Slovenian banking system concerning the approval of write-offs, cash guarantees and lending policies, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the approval and management of credits and bank guarantees, and the suspicion that there have been no evidence of negative consequences of such behaviour. You received an extension proposal on 25 January 2013. Would you like a representative of the proposer? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. On 30 November 2012, the Group of Members submitted an application for a parliamentary inquiry into the banking system. In view of the fact that at that time one request for a parliamentary inquiry with a narrow part of this content proposed by the Group of Members has already been submitted, we have then agreed to this request in accordance with the agreement reached by the President of the National Assembly on 9 January 2013 and participated in by the leadership of the Council of State, in a way that we have agreed that they will support our proposal to comment on our proposal and withdraw their request. In accordance with this agreement, this should take place until this meeting of the National Assembly. Since the Council of State did nothing during the period between January 9th and the 22nd meeting of the Council of State in this regard, we then reworked this request by removing the part covered by the request for an investigation commission from the State Council. In this respect, this proposal is corrected. We couldn't ask for a deal with the State Council before. We have already decided that we will try to prepare a parliamentary inquiry because there are no such matters now, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a request has been submitted for the determination of the parliamentary inquiry at this meeting. I would like to remind you that both parliamentary investigations should be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Inquiry at the December meeting of the National Assembly. This did not happen because we had the ambition to do one, nor did it happen. And now this correction fulfils the conditions for this parliamentary inquiry, as requested by the Group of Members, to be ordered at this meeting of the National Assembly. I propose that you support the proposal to extend the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you are, Mr. Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support an extension of the agenda because we really expect both the Council of State and the Members who signed the request to set up an investigative commission to agree and reach an agreement on how this commission of inquiry should work and, in particular, what period would be the subject of an investigation. Another argument why we cannot support this is that there is no secret that the Slovenian Democratic Party in the State Council has provided quite a nice number of seats and that the State Council may withdraw its request, and given that the text of Members and Members has been corrected, of course, the period that relates to the request of the State Council will fall out of the investigation, which is exactly the period of the previous so-called Janša government. Such conduct seems inappropriate to us, and we therefore expect an agreement between the two parties proposing an investigative commission to come up and that, once this agreement has been reached – of course, it is normal to follow the procedure in the National Assembly that the investigative commission must be set up – and that is also done. Without this agreement, however, there is a particular danger that I have mentioned that there might actually be a period of loss which will not be the subject of an investigation, and that is why we are opposed to such a proposal or to this specific proposal to extend the agenda in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u5	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u6	Such a proposal, of course, will not be supported. Indeed, we are coming into a period that we have already seen in the National Assembly in the past. It is actually irrational to set up two different commissions of inquiry with the same topic. In view of the fact that we talked about this at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly and agreed to wait, first of all, for an answer from the Council of State, what they specifically meant by proposing such an investigative commission, of course this is impatient — or I will say more correctly — unsuspectingly, in order to hurry up with another commission, which will be a quasi counterweight, just tells and confirms the fact that we want to have another investigation here again just for the sake of trying to get something balanced. I don't think such acts make sense. However, it is still the power to make decisions when it is clear on both sides what was meant, in fact, on the one hand or on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u7	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much. All those who wish to respect the rule of law would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, adopted by a two-thirds majority, specify in which cases the parliamentary investigative committee must be designated. It must be; not that it would or would not, but it must be. Given that Article 3 specifically states that this should have been determined at a previous meeting of the National Assembly, let's say that the conditions were not at the time, or that it was an agreement, and in this case this is an investigative committee, since the content covered by the Commission of Inquiry, at the request of the State Council, is excluded, must be determined and also determined by the Parliamentary Commission at the request of the State Council, namely the work they requested. This isn't about avoiding anything. It is only that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, this is also one of the documents on which the National Assembly operates, this requires orders. Those who will vote against it shall also vote against the rules, against the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and then also against the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, which shall specify in which cases this requirement must be determined. In fact, there is no special option here, except that this parliamentary commission of inquiry has been ordered. Everything else you're saying, not about the subject matter of the investigation, about other matters, concerns, is irrelevant. The Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry are precise, very precise and only those who will vote against the Rules of Procedure, then this means that you will vote against the act adopted in the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority, and also against one act which determines or regulates the functioning of the National Assembly. So these questions of indefinition are irrational.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u9	I conclude the debate on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check for voting devices. We vote on the proposed enlargement of the agenda. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 34. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 34.]] I understand that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft act as item 19a of the agenda on Friday, 1 February 2013, after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. We vote on the establishment of the agenda as a whole. I propose that we set the agenda for today's meeting, as you have received by reference, and the supplement adopted. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I also have a procedural proposal here. I propose that we take note of the resignation of the two ministers today, and it is said that points b1 and b2 should also be included in the mandate-holder cases envisaged immediately after the approval of the agenda. In fact, there are no reasons not to get acquainted with the resignations of ministers today. At the same meeting, the Council of Citizens decided to withdraw from the coalition, and on the same day, requests were made or proposals for the resignation of both the President of the National Assembly and both ministers. Even on the day he received this, the President of the Government sent him to the National Assembly, and I find it illogical to withdraw from the coalition in such a successful way. If you have decided to leave and preparations for this have been going on for quite some time, I propose that a briefing be made on the resignation of both ministers. There are probably many reasons, as well as arguments, but I would like to read Mr Pličanič's resignation statement, the Minister of Justice, in which he did not draw in a single word an argument that would be the basis for leaving or withdrawing from the coalition. Indeed, Minister Pličanič, who runs the justice sector, is said to be that part of the rule of law, wrote: "Dear President! The Council of the Civil Code adopted a decision yesterday to withdraw from the government coalition, so today I resign from the post of Minister of Justice and Public Administration." That's what happened on the 24th. "At the end of my term, I would like to thank you for your excellent cooperation, and it has been a great honour for me to be able to work with you this year. I'm glad we could have a frank and honest conversation, but I'm sorry there wasn't a chance. As a politician and as a man, I have great respect for you and I wish you well." Thus, Minister Plicanic has made it very clear that he is withdrawing today, which is with January 24th, and I suggest that we take this moment and take note of the resignation of the minister. I also propose that this briefing be given to Mr Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance. I propose that we, too, vote in this part to amend the order of the item in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We will first vote on the agenda, because it does not yet affect the timeline. As soon as the agenda is voted, we will decide on Mr Tank's proposal. So we are voting first on the agenda. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda for the 10th meeting of the assembly has been set. We will now decide on a proposal to change the timeline submitted by Mr Tanko. Let me explain my decision on this timeline. I have consulted with the outgoing ministers about the time-table regarding the withdrawal of the two ministers. It seemed appropriate for the Minister who resigned to assess the time he needed to complete his work in his office in a responsible and correct manner, and also the time he had to inform the Members and Members of the National Assembly of his resignation. This right is given by the Rules of Procedure. We will decide on the proposal on the basis of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, because it is a procedural decision, you will be able to state your position on behalf of the Group of Members. However, I must say that, under Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal will be adopted if it does not oppose at least 30 Members and Members. Therefore, if it is against at least 30 Members, this proposal will not be adopted. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The Honourable President of the National Assembly. I think you've abused this part of the Rules of Procedure because you haven't opened the point of explanation for the vote, and you've explained your position. If the point of explanation of vote applies to all, then it shall also apply to the President of the National Assembly. As for the resignation of ministers, everywhere it is written "today", that is to say, January 24th. They did not write to the Minister that he resigned on 30 January to resign on 2 February, but they wrote "today", that is, on 24 January, and they forwarded this proposal to the President of the Government. It is most appropriate that, as soon as the opportunity is in place, a briefing should be made on the resignation of both ministers. There is no valid reason to extend today’s day for 3, 4 days, a week, and so forth, just as anyone could explain, interpret, or like. I hope that the ministers who made the resignation statement on 24 January and wrote "today" have probably completed all the tasks until then, until that "today". I can't imagine that there would be anything left unfinished, that there would be a disorderly situation, or that any other way of dealing with it would have to be done, because otherwise the resignation statement would have been otherwise written. I suggest that we do this immediately, or you leave a chance for many speculations about this successful derogation from the functions of the National Gazette. You will defraud your decision, abuse your decision by the Council of the Civil Service List and, secondly, put great difficulty in the work of the Government itself. I don't think I can imagine, nor do others, that ministers who have resigned with the same barbecue would continue to work in the same way if they had resigned. Or to make responsible decisions in favour of the coalition that remains. Because I respect each other's ministers, I've worked with them, it's no problem, but given that you've made some demands for withdrawal from the coalition and you've also resigned, then I expect you to allow as soon as possible to complete and ensure the performance of functions in both departments. And this is the task then of the President of the Government and [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] no more anyone who could have any interpretation of when it makes sense to resign or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Also on this issue, which we have already seen at the College of the President of the National Assembly in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that we should respect the procedure in the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly set out how the meeting of the National Assembly was to be held today. The Rules of Procedure, however, allow for changes under conditions where a certain number of Members and Members do not object to such a decision. But here, however, the following fact should be highlighted. The fact is that ministers resign because the President of the Government could not explain the transactions with cash and the source of assets to the Commission in order to prevent corruption. By not taking note today of the proposal by the President of the National Assembly that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister responsible for justice have resigned, however, the President of the Government is given the opportunity to reconsider by Thursday, but it would not be more appropriate for him to resign as Prime Minister of the Government and thus to end these uncertainties that arise from day to day. This indecisiveness, which has been detected with the President of the Government, certainly shows that it is not an easy decision for him to make. However, we see that, with this possibility, both Minister of Finance and Mr Senko Plitcanič will present themselves to the National Assembly at the time of the end of their duties, but the possibility that the President of the Government will be given the opportunity to consider his resignation by Thursday. Therefore, we will not support the proposed amendment to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. Let me once again inform you that the proposal will not be adopted if it opposes at least one third of the Members present and Members present. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 37. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 37.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. We're moving to 22. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated the term of office. Because he's a magician. Trudi Cinderella, following her resignation on 28 December 2012, terminated her term of office. The State Election Commission forwarded to the National Assembly the finding that the mandate had passed on to Mr Branko Kurnjek. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the State, which reported in writing to the Assembly. We're moving on to the debate. Only the Mag has signed up for the debate. Ivan Vogrin. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I give up words.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Member, Mr Branko Kurnjek, to join us and take his place in the parliamentary benches. In doing so, I wish him to be a successful Member. Good luck! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u18	Your Honor! We are moving on to a briefing on our resignation from the presidency of the National Assembly. On 24 January 2013, the President of the National Assembly, Dr Gregor Virant, submitted a written statement of resignation from the presidency of the National Assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Assembly will explain the resignation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It has been a privilege for me to serve as the first of the same in the National Assembly. It was an extraordinary experience, I would say, even stronger than my ministerial experience in the period 2004-2008. The function of the President of the National Assembly is very specific. It brings many challenges, but I must say that it has been my pleasure to perform this function. I was particularly pleased when we were able to make some important decisions by broad consensus or by consensus, such as a pension reform or an important amendment to the state budget, which brought some extra money to higher education or a law that regulated food for students and students. At that time, we showed people that we know how to be what they expect us to be, fellow workers for a common goal, a better Slovenia. I understand that you have not always been pleased with my decisions, that the President of the National Assembly is often in the role of a judge when he has to decide between the different interests of the groups, Members and Members, and one of the parties is dissatisfied with his decision. I have adhered to the Constitution, I have adhered to the law, I have followed the rules of procedure, I have tried to make my decisions fair and to treat all parliamentary groups equally, whether you were coalition or opposition. That's how I understand the position of President of the National Assembly. It has been a pleasure working with you, my fellow Member and fellow Members, as President of the National Assembly, and I thank you very much for this. In particular, I also thank the services of the National Assembly, headed by the Secretary-General. I have to tell all my coworkers and coworkers at work that your professionalism and commitment is the one that allows the work of the National Assembly to go smoothly. In politics, we need to be able to assess when the time is right to say goodbye to a function. My decision to resign was simple, and I'm leaving because those who should have left didn't leave. I leave my seat until the election of the new President of the National Assembly to my colleague, Jakob Preseknik, the oldest Vice-President of the National Assembly. Good work, good luck, and wisdom! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u20	I thank the President, Dr. Gregor Virant, for his explanation. / applause/ In accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that, on 24 January 2013, Dr Gregor Virant submitted a written statement of resignation from the office of President of the National Assembly and therefore, as of today, his office as President of the National Assembly is terminated. At the same time, I thank Dr Gregor Virant for the proper work done by the first of the same Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and on this occasion, on behalf of all of us, I wish him the best in the further parliamentary work. Good luck! As the President of the National Assembly has ceased to function, Mr Jakob Presečnik is replaced by Mr Jakob Presečnik as the oldest Vice-President of the National Assembly, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 31 January 2013, or on Friday, 1 February 2013. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 42 parliamentary questions in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be determined on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the first two questions, members of the opposition and on the Member of the ruling coalition's question, the President of the Government will answer at 6 p.m. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If a question raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, we will place the issue at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, and Dr. Janez Šuštersič, Minister of Finance after 19:00. You have received an overview of the questions sent and initiatives which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to the answers to the questions raised at the 9th meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, will answer questions: The 4th question of Dr Lászlá Göncz regarding the preparation of legislation on limiting the emissions of unpleasant odors mainly from the point of view of the operation of biogas plants. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Vice-President, all present! Dr. Lászlá Gönča's question is, as you have already said, related to the preparation of legislation on the limitation of emissions of unpleasant odors, mainly from the point of view of the operation of biogas plants. At the Ministry we are preparing a regulation on the processing of biodegradable waste. This Regulation has already concluded the public hearing and is in the process of finalising all comments and then going into intersectoral coordination. In view of the very acute problem we have also made a presentation of this regulation in Montenegro, where we know that there is also a whole range of problems with one of Slovenia's biogas plants. This is also the only regulation that touches the control of unpleasant smells resulting from the operation of biogas plants and composters. Allow me to present the essential novelties of this Regulation, which will certainly have a major impact on the better control of these procedures and that the consequences of these unpleasant smells will also be reduced in the future. The first key substantive novelty of this Regulation, as well as the very precise design, is the area of quality assurance of the whole process and this also means control at the same time and this control is carried out over the input waste. It is also very clear in Annex 1 what all input material should be, clearly defined procedures for recording and control of these input materials themselves. The second most important part is the establishment of control over the process of decommissioning this entire technological process, and here we also see the biggest problems in the processes themselves, and as a result of these unpleasant smells. The Regulation also provides for a new mandatory analysis of digestate and short-chain fatty acids. Here, as I have already said, fermentation procedures and, given the lack of clear control, these unpleasant smells have also occurred. This control of the final product is also very clear. Here are two things: for the first time, what will be the content of various micro-nutrients, which should be used on agricultural surfaces, and also from the point of view of smells. Another such substantive provision of this Regulation, which will have an important impact, is this part relating to mandatory measurement of meteorological parameters such as pressure, wind direction, temperature on the device itself, including recording of these meteorological phenomena and thus also to control inspection, while at the same time regular recording of complaints by the countries is also an integral part of this procedure. The regulation also introduces a new departure from the nearest existing residential, inn, administrative, office and commercial buildings, which is set at 300 metres for these facilities. Where open composting is still taking place and is composted with open composting, this distance is 500 meters and is comparable to similar numbers from foreign practice. The regulation also sets out very clearly the basics of the structural requirements for biogas installations, and we also believe that there will be better control and fewer of these unpleasant smells. As far as formaldehyde is concerned. Formaldehyde derived from a biogas plant is legally regulated by a Regulation on air missions and substances from stationary gas turbines with an inlet heat output of less than 50 megawatts and a stationary internal combustion engine and Article 5, paragraph 4, of that Regulation provides that the limit concentration of formaldehyde is 60 milligrams per cubic metre and shall be measured when used as a fuel gas, biogas, gas from cleaning plants or waste mineral and edible oil. This is also the way in which biogas control and emission monitoring is carried out [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u22	Here you go. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues, colleagues! Mr Bokovic would like to thank you for the answer, which gives at least some hope that there will be a step forward in this area of problem-solving, but I am still asking two questions. Before that, one more comment. On the part of the Minister, it was said that there were some biogas problems concerning this issue. I believe that there are more biogas plants in Slovenia, as well as in the Pomurska region, there are quite a few biogas plants where problems, comments and questions occur daily. But now I'm not getting into this. My question, in particular, is whether the regulation is actually prepared or is already in the final stage of preparation, or whether it will actually be sufficient. In fact, it was originally referred to as the broadband legal coverage of solving this problem. Now the question is to me: Can we actually, in fact, cover this negative impact of emissions with one regulation? That's the first part of the question. Second part: When could this Regulation be applied? I mean, chronologically, given the process of acceptance. Finally, perhaps this: Does the Regulation provide for an unequivocal finding or a determination of air pollution? Since we have had many problems with the criteria so far, there have been many different interpretations, a lot of pros and counter-response, and from this point of view I am somewhat skeptical. Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you. I agree with you; whether I was not clear enough or not. I said that we were in Chernobyl, where one of the biogas plants is very current on these issues. This is how we meet at least four, five, where there is a lot of talk, and less talk about those who do not. But I agree with you, there are more. As far as the solution to this problem is concerned, it was not envisaged that this would be resolved by law, but by regulation. We now have, as I have already said, this regulation, which has also been the subject of broad public consultation throughout the whole autumn period, has been a whole series of meetings, at which I myself have participated. As I have already said in the context of the presentation of this Regulation, we have gone to the field and discussed, cooperated with representatives of civil initiatives as well as with those associated with the association of biogas plants linked by the Economic Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that this compromise of this regulation is now sufficient. Above all, there was a lot of talk around two things: one was the stench itself, and the other was what could be deposited on agricultural surfaces and the remains of micro-elements from zinc to other key elements. As I have already said, the Regulation has already gone through all the procedures for public presentation and is now in the stage of inter-sectoral coordination and, if there are no major complications in inter-departmental coordination, I believe that this Regulation can also be definitively adopted in February. As far as the unpleasant smells themselves and the measurement of the monitoring are concerned, I must say that this dilemma remains open here, whether there will be any further regulation that would have exactly these things. I must say that when it was now trying to move forward, it was a single conclusion that at this point it would be very difficult to be a part of this second issue and that we will try to make maximum arrangements for very clear control of the raw materials, over the flow – monitoring and if necessary, then the next step is to measure the stench, which is very difficult. As far as these problems and problems are concerned, it is also very difficult, from a financial point of view, for all those who would follow this matter in the Environment Agency or elsewhere. Also with regard to the measurement of single release and similar matters that are emerging, it is a question of how to settle these matters. Otherwise, as I have already said, we are counting on a number of problems to be removed after such a procedure and, if necessary, we will have to continue with the other measurements of these emissions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Minister Franz Bogovic will answer Mr Brank Fick's question about the penalties for the irregularities in the closure of the Ormož Sugar Factory. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I also read in detail the discussion or the question you are asking about the alleged irregularities in the implementation of the restructuring of the Ormož Sugar Factory. From the very point of view of the issues, it was clear that issues have been emerging since 2007 and that it is essentially a matter of informing Slovenia of this official position of the European Commission on the compatibility of the implementation of the restructuring measures of the sugar industry in Slovenia with the rules of the European Union. As you have rightly said, the Commission considers that this was not a complete but only a partial removal of production capacity, because the sugar storage silo was not damaged in this only Slovenian sugar factory at the time. That is why the request for about a quarter, amounting to 8.7 million euros, has returned to the European budget. Slovenia disagrees with this position of the Commission and that is why we have already, and in the future, we will also use the available legal remedies and also try to ensure that the recovery of these funds is not necessary. As has already been said, this reform of the sugar market has resulted in the loss of this quota and the removal of this quota – €34.8 million has been obtained. This was decided by the owners of the factory, in fact today we all know that it was a big mistake at the time, and I have a study with me presented on Thursday by the Association of Sugar Peese Manufacturers, which is working to relaunch this production in the new financial period after 2015 when the sugar beet quotas are to be abolished. But here we are, where we are right now. As I have already said, Slovenia considers that this removal was made by all applicable rules and that this claim for repayment of these 8.7 million is unjustifiable. This is also a similar case, where we joined Italy as a country in a dispute brought before the European Court of Justice in a similar case as we have in Slovenia. Last year, on 11 December, we also filed an application for a conciliation procedure. Given that our position was still similar to that of the Italians when this programme was being corrected for a non-sugar packaging package, it is still the same as that of the Italians that for such removal or because this has not been removed, the European Commission is not justified in asking us to return a quarter of this application. In this direction, the Ministry's efforts will be made, and we have already conducted a series of discussions with the European Commission alone. In a way, however, more or less, there is also waiting for this complication and similar identical conflict with Italy to unfold, and this will be a good basis for us. I have to say, from this town with full confidence that it won't have to be returned, I can't say. But we're fighting in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u28	Mr. Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u29	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Minister, the fact is that this is a sin from Janša's first term and that the decisions were wrong. The fact is that 8.7 million Euros of taxpayer money will have to be reimbursed sooner or later, regardless of the legal means, if not this year, probably two years from now. Obviously, it will not be paid by those who blamed it, as it was already the first time that it was discussed in 2008, when the restructuring of the sugar industry was also changed. An additional reminder that matters were not good was given in 2010 when a request for corrective measures was made. The Agency for Agricultural Markets paid those 63 million euros, of which 35 million circuses to the Dutch people, says owners, the rest went to farmers. European auditors once again pointed out the removal of silos two years ago, which was not done. If I got the answer right, it's the owners. We had the opportunity to renew the bank guarantee at the end of last year and this bank guarantee was not cashed. Again, I ask myself: Who will be responsible for the incorrect decisions and in particular for the steps taken during this period from 2008 to today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u31	I was talking about the fault or the decision to make a wrong decision by the owners to close the factory, given the sugar conjugation that has been in the coming years and how sugar beet producers are today striving to regain quotas and possibly the result of this study went into a new construction of this facility. In this part, as I have already said, in the Ministry, when we reviewed this issue, we have found that, just as Italy has decided to have a dispute in the European Court of Justice on the basis of a perfectly identical case to which Slovenia has joined, it is right to go along this path and hope for a good, successful timetable for the Italians and that it will then be appropriate to succeed for the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, in view of the revised closure programmes that were made in those years, the problem of recovery of this amount will remain relatively problematic. It was also approved by the State at that time, and the position was then and still today to hope for a successful breakup with the Italians, which would mean that for us, too, because there is a different interpretation in this work, both of us and the European Commission, in both countries, and we are counting on a good decision in court.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Mrs Tamara Vont will ask the Minister for Home Affairs, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Once again, I will touch on one question, just because we have no answers and because we are far from being saved — as it turns out. On 26 June 2012, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, in the case of Kurić and the second against Slovenia, adopted a 2010 decision that Slovenia did not fully resolve the issue of deleted. In one year, the Court decided that Slovenia should establish a compensation scheme for the wrongs suffered by the victims. The Government has put forward a plan for the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Justice to four lawyers from the Faculty of State and European Studies, that is to say external contractors, including Dr. Tone Jerovšek, who, at the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the deleted in 2004, stated that only the blind and the deceiving have believed in this decision of the Constitutional Court. On 10 October 2012 the State Defence Council of Europe notified the Council of Europe, which oversees the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights judgment, that Slovenia will submit an action plan by 26 December 2012. Well, the government was supposed to confirm at the letter meeting on Saturday 19 January 2013 the draft compensation scheme for deleted. The document should be marked with a confidential label. Dear Minister: What content is the draft adopted and when do you think of preparing this scheme to report to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u34	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It's a little contradictory, if you said we accepted and sent it, that means we've already reported it. But it doesn't matter. I will not comment on the other matters that you have spoken about Mr Jerovsk, this is your case, this is your opinion, this is your position to which you have the right; and I respect it, of course. As for the so-called compensation scheme, this is 26. 6. 2013, 26. 12. 2012 is the so-called Action Plan. We agreed with the European Court of Human Rights and asked them if we could send this matter with a one-month delay, which means up to 26 and up to 31. 1. 2013 We also got permission to send it from there. The case was also brought before the Government on 18 January 2013 and forwarded through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Division for the Enforcement of Judgments of the European Court of Human Rights of the Secretariat of the Council of Europe. That means this case is already at the secretariat. As far as confidentiality or confidentiality is concerned, it is clear that the document cannot be forever confidential, that is clear. I expect that this mark will be withdrawn very soon, both in Slovenia and in Strasbourg, and will be available to you in full, as well as to the Slovenian public. Maybe an explanation of why the matter is still confidential at this stage. Because we are having discussions with the Secretariat of the Council of Europe and there is no need to upset our or any other public with such statements as we received from them last month in June and July in Slovenian media, which calculated twenty thousand times twenty-five thousand people after primary school and reached half a billion people. Of course, this is not the case, because we do not want to disturb people at this stage, we will wait until the end of the discussion with the Secretariat of the Council of Europe and in a few days, I stress in a few days, this document will be made available to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I would point out once again: there were no contradictions, but I will read again to you, so I confirmed the draft compensation scheme for deleted, that was all I said, I didn't say anywhere that you sent it, that's what you told me in response now; so there were no contradictions, at least in my case. Yeah, everything's nice and good, but I'm still interested: Why do you insist on this mark in confidence? Why did you actually make another deletion — and this deletion is called public obliteration in cooperation with the public? Why didn't the government have any dialogue, or a group, or a commission, or anything, with deleted? Why are we talking about this without the ones that are most concerned? This has now become so-called solo project, which is exclusively a matter of government, not those who will pay these compensations, but especially those who have been wronged. Indeed, they have repeatedly expressed their full willingness to cooperate, to talk about finding common best solutions for all, but from me there are really unknown reasons that could only be defined as stubbornness or stubbornness or whatever, you have not done so. In the end this account will be, we know it, as you know, as we all know it, much higher than it would have been! Again! We're talking about about about 180 people, so many have so far applied! 180 men! Putting the label in confidence on such a one is also a few days after it's all over — it's unacceptable that it's classified. [[...]] That's unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u39	As long as it's classified or not, it's up to me. But when you are the interior minister, you will decide, but of course you can also provide funds within the government. As for another deletion, this is your label, please, you can also put it on Twitter. As for other matters — why not talk to the deleted? We will talk when it is time for negotiations, which are also envisaged. The fact that the account will be higher – I don't know, maybe you'll explain to me where this thing comes from and also, where 180 people come from, the number you know, not me. [[...]] I don't know, I didn't get any papers and none of those 180 people, but if you mixed that up with the 2010 law, I don't have any influence.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u41	In accordance with Article 246, of course, I ask that this issue be addressed in public debate. Besides, there's something else, "l'état, c'est moi" -- isn't there, Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u42	We are moving on to the next question. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mags a question. Radovan Žerjav, absent today, and Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport Dr. Žigi Turku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Honorable Assembly. At the time of the entry of Idria and the Spanish Almaden into the prestigious list of World Heritage Sites at UNESCO, I said that this meant an exceptional opportunity for the local community and the country to jointly implement a series of development projects related to this. In the nomination, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia committed itself to the international community to implement its decision of 7 July 2011 and to establish the functioning of the Idria Heritage Management Centre as soon as possible. The main purpose of the centre is to ensure comprehensive and sustainable management and to preserve the cultural heritage and natural values associated with the Idrija and Idrija. In addition to the concerns arising from these obligations, following the regular liquidation of the mercury mine, Idrija will also have to take care in the liquidation of the centre of the maintenance programmes of the indemnity of the mine pit, monitoring and mining damage. At the inauguration of the Silver Mine Idri and Almaden, I invited to the World Heritage List, and also this time, probably for the last time, I invite the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Minister Žig Turk and Mag. Radovan Žerjava, under which the majority of the centre's programme belongs, is to begin work as soon as possible at the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija. Otherwise, we can ask questions about the entry into the Unesc list as well as the security of the city of Idrija and the establishment of a global research centre for mercury under the United Nations Environment Programme. Let me get this. In order to successfully fulfil the obligations arising from Idria's entry into the UNESCO World Heritage List, it is necessary to initiate the operation of the Idrija Heritage Management Centre as soon as possible, so I ask both ministers, or I call on them to implement the Government's conclusions of 6 December 2011 and 2012 a good month ago. I thank Minister Turk in advance for his reply, from the Minister of Magi. Joyful Zereva, being absent, is abroad, and I ask or ask her to answer my questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u44	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question, also for your concern regarding the centre for the management of the legacy of mercury Idri. A short answer is this material, which is in interdisciplinary coordination. In fact, in accordance with the previous decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the agreement with the local community, which, together with the institutions concerned with the maintenance of the Idrija technical heritage of global importance, has prepared government material on the activities related to the public institution of the Idrija Centre for the Management of Live Silver and has sent it to the Ministry for Inter-Resort Coordination, which is fully responsible for the area related to the Idrija mine. In this process, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will probably also confirm this in its part of the response, confirm the funds provided in the budget lines of this Ministry for activities set out in the programme of maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and to be carried out by the State Public Institute. This relates in particular to the protection of the city of Idrija and the preservation of key buildings of immovable cultural heritage. This is a little less than €700,000 for 2012 and 2013. However, since the tasks associated with the Mining Act are the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, further coordination with the Ministry will be necessary after the last reorganisation. Other sources also sent comments that mainly touched on environmental monitoring. This came from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and biomonitoring by the Ministry of Health, which will need to be coordinated and adjusted in accordance with the system regime at the national level. However, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration agreed with the material. On the basis of this decision, which will be finalized in the coming weeks, I am sure that these resources will also lead to procedures for the appointment of the bodies of the institution and the preparation of a draft plan for the work of the centre, in accordance with these financial frameworks and the approved mine work plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. As it is said, last December the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted specific information on this, which is now partly taken by the Minister. Seven conclusions were also adopted. I am particularly interested to know that in writing, Minister Mag. Žerjav replied how to implement these decisions; firstly, after the regular liquidation of the mercury mine, Idrija would take over the activities established by the programme of maintenance of the indemnified part of the pit and monitoring in the mine, for which funds are already provided in the state budgets, not only for 2012, which had already passed, even for 2013 and 2014. In this regard, a special programme should also be adopted in the Government and therefore Minister of Mags. I'm asking the crane: When are they going to prepare this program? In addition, the Government has concluded that the Ministry of Education will continue to provide resources for the comprehensive and sustainable preservation of cultural heritage in this environment, so that the Government, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Health, will prepare a programme on biomonitoring and protection against natural disasters. The Government also calls for the appointment of the Director of the Public Institute as soon as possible and for the establishment of a Council of the Institute, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Culture. Above all, I ask Minister Gerjev to say: When will the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology appoint its candidate in this world? I think it's one of the obstacles. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Anything else you'd like to add, Mr. Secretary? [[There's no need.]] You will receive a written reply from Minister Žerjev, Mr Bevk. We're moving on to the next question. Mrs Patricia Šulin will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, who is absent today and will be able to answer you at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u49	Madam President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Last year, Slovenian doctors prescribed only a little less than a billion doses of different medicines. The ZZS therefore earmarks about 400 million a year for medicines in the population. There are about 50 tonnes of medicines with a expired period of use in the special containers for healthcare waste in pharmacies, which does not represent all the medicines disposed of, as many medicines do not return to the pharmacy or bring them to the doctor each year, but discard the medicines together with other wastes, which is also a very dangerous waste for our environment and health. According to some data, the cost of discarded medicinal products with an expiry date in Slovenia is as much as €9 million per year. According to some calculations, if we add the costs of unnecessary medical hours to prescribe unnecessary medicines to this cost, the time of waiting that patients spend on medical care and visiting a pharmacy, we get an amount higher than 100 million euros a year. I believe that in such large numbers we can even talk about treatment with too much medicine. In Slovenia, more than 100,000 people are expected to be taking more than 5 medicines a day and more than 15,000 people taking 10 medicines at the same time a day. According to UKC Ljubljana, we spend about 3 million euros each year to deal with the consequences of excessive drug use. In Europe, nearly 200,000 people die each year as a result of drug treatment. We will certainly need to do something in this area, including by doctors, about prescriptions and medicines, as well as with greater concern for individuals for their own health and national health programmes. I ask the Minister of Health: What measures is being taken by the Ministry of Health in relation to the reduction in the costs of ZZZS for discarded medicinal products with an expiry date? Since the Minister of Health is away, please answer me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary will answer you in writing, Mrs. Shulin. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Mr Stanko Stepišnik to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Mr Andrei Visiak and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mag. Happy Zerjav, who is absent today. Here you go, Mr. Stephnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! Of the 80 reported are 25 present, so it is true that the country is going somewhere undisciplined. Young people's employment, the development of entrepreneurship and the provision of security, flexibility and flexibility in the labour market, the tightening economic situation when social gross products are cut down, investments are cut down, development and research resources are cut down and jobs are not created, as a result, structural unemployment is increasing. About 125 thousand unemployed; young people about 30 thousand. However, the causes are not only a crisis but also the non-compliance of the unemployed with the professions that the market needs. This is due to the adaptation of school programmes to the needs of the market. Schools must prepare human resources for knowledge and technology in the future for at least 10 years to come. Certain professional skills disappear and are replaced by new skills. It is an example of many engineering professions when they are still trained at vocational schools by sawmills, sawmills, grinders, and so on. This was a division of labor, taken from German technology. Today in Slovenia this division of work is not valid because we have a lot of small, micro, medium-sized enterprises where technology is completely different. These professions are replaced by the professions of mechatronics and other modern professions that are being introduced into production today. Preparing students and students for the labour market – see, today, for example, there are extremely many young unemployed people. When they were doing the Eurobarometer survey a few days ago, it was found that they wanted to be self-employed in Slovenia only 28%, 37% in Europe; 66% said they wanted to be employed by the employer. It's a follow-up question. I ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. The number of young people who are unemployed increases from year to year. Now we have over 30,000 young people who are unemployed: What measures will you take to reduce the number of unemployed? The fact is, in Slovenia, there are not enough companies: Is it a lack of knowledge, ideas, challenges, or a lack of order and fear of failure? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u52	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u53	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. You have rightly addressed a question to both ministers, because the Ministry of the Economy is primarily responsible for creating or taking measures for new jobs and another, and our ministry is responsible for active employment policy programmes, or for answering the question of how to reduce structural unemployment, so how to encourage young people to decide on their own business path or on the professions in which they will get a job. The Ministry of Labour with active employment policy measures in 2013 allocates around EUR 100 million and will be implemented mainly in terms of training and education, incentives for employment, job creation and the promotion of self-employment. I will mention a few very concrete measures that the current government has taken and are tanning the very ones that you have warned about, say, young people. We have set up a first challenge, an active employment policy measure that subsidises the employment of unemployed, under 30 years of age, and must then be employed for at least 15 months. From the start of this programme, which is not yet a year old, up to now, 3,000 contracts of employment have already been weak with young people. This action was designed or hired by nearly 3,000 young people. Then we have a Business in the Entrepreneurship World programme, the main operators of which are regional development agencies. It is based on a pilot project from the Sava region and aims to promote the creation of new jobs in entrepreneurship by training young people on a separate business path. This measure can also, of course, be added to the promotion of self-employment through a subsidy for self-employed persons. Then there are the following measures. The pension reform, as you know, contained an article under which all young people under the age of 26 are subsidised by the State for the first year of 50% of the contributions and the second year for 30% of the contributions. Similarly, if a person becomes self-employed, this first year he or she has such a discount in the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Also a very important measure. Promoting the employment of young people, at least in normal employment programmes, also includes new labour legislation in the negotiations. We want to reduce segmentation in the labour market, we want more contracts for indefinite periods for employees, so we follow through this legislation important measures for this purpose. I am also coming from negotiations with workers and employers on these issues. Allow me to mention two other important actions in the direction you mention them. That's what we've done. We've prepared a new law on scholarships. In this law on scholarships, we introduce so-called scholarships for underage students; so we want those students who enter secondary schools, if they come and enter schools where they are educated, to receive a scholarship. We are proposing 100 euros per student per month, and they also keep this scholarship for deficits after they become full-year students and combine this scholarship with some other scholarship, such as a state grant or a Zois scholarship. It is said that this scholarship for deficits will also be able to be combined with other scholarships. In the new law on scholarships, which is already in public debate, so there is, text is here, you have it available on websites, there is also greater co-financing of staff scholarships. We are already co-financed in 50% of our scholarships, which is why we want to bring them closer to young people. And in the end. The government has also confirmed documents that speak of admission to university programmes, where we are consciously strengthening technical professions and slightly restricting social science and humanities with a single purpose, so that we can in some way create a greater balance. However, if only this government and the government has stuck to it in the 2004-2008 mandate, we have done nothing if any intermediate or future imbalances have broken.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go, mag. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much for that answer. In fact, the government has done something, but the result is important; from month to month we have more unemployed and also unemployed young people. The goal must be to reduce this number and it is likely that a common effort in Slovenia is to find at least 60,000 jobs in a good year in the economic field. The fact that young people are not prepared with a strong self-esteem for risks, to cope with the crisis, to accept the challenges of having little entrepreneurship, knowledge from marketing, and that the administration is too strong in Slovenia probably discourages them from not being self-employed. As we know, we will find the most jobs here in the future, while one company, which is supposed to be set up for 3,000 or 1,000 jobs, is a utopia to be in Slovenia. What will education do — because we have a minister here — in this area? Clearly, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, young people will take these risks more seriously. Would it not make sense, since more and more young people are in the employment agency, to introduce, to make a law on compulsory traineeships, which should cover and motivate both a trainee, an employee and an employer, a mentor and an employer? Professional direction: three plus one and one year of apprenticeship, which would go on during working hours. That would probably get more people into jobs. Deregulation of professions is also a major problem. In Europe they have about 100 professions; in Slovenia we have 300 professions. It is also a particular problem to harmonise the supply and demand for employment on the market: It would not make sense to acquire the necessary knowledge, skills from strategic plans of enterprises or to produce the necessary catalogue of skills for the future economy needs from the chain of added values that all companies have in strategic plans and have [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u56	Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u57	You have made a number of good proposals, which are also contained in both the coalition contract and our work plans, especially when we are talking about deregulation of professions. Then this deregulation of professions is resisted by schools that work these professions, because then they lose their jobs and then there are no school programs that regulate our professional system. Every thing is kind of sensitive here. Surely, however, many of this holds true, and important measures are taken in this respect, as you mention. The Minister of Economy, to whom you refer, will also be able to answer you easily with regard to the packages of measures you have taken in the National Assembly in terms of the start-up of the economy, in terms of increased economic activity. Unfortunately, we share our destiny here with other countries. We are in the European Union at the rate of unemployment that you mention – which is critical in Slovenia – I agree – still below the average of the European Union. Thank God, but unfortunately, everyone's unemployed here too. The whole government must work together, because the measures are in many areas, how to deregulation, how to encourage employees to work. At the same time, however, it is very difficult for me to tend to see the state administration as the one who would also create jobs through compulsory traineeships. Because then it has to be financed with tax money. So, with the ones that would put extra pressure on them. Well, thank you for your suggestions. There are many things in reality, and many are also correct and well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Stephen, I anticipate a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 246, I would like to have a general debate on youth employment, the development of entrepreneurship and the provision of security, flexibility and flexibility in the labour market. Perhaps even around this flexibility, safety and flexibility in the labour market. A comprehensive model of safety, flexibility, flexibility for the entire working life of an employee should be provided, meaning all 40 years between, say, a triangular agency-company-state agency, in such a way that companies would pay a certain amount to be paid to that agency and for the time when the worker would be on the agency, so that the worker could quickly be fired and thus the employee or employee would not have a feeling, let's say that it is neglected and that this is worse social security and so on. For this reason, if a specific employee has a credit and I don't know what else, then if he goes to the agency and gets a maximum salary for a certain period of time, say, a maximum of two years, then he's not so threatened and he doesn't have so much moral pressure on a person if he knows that he'll be able to earn 80% of his personal income at that agency, for example, and that the agency will be actively escorting that worker back to the labour market. This would give us a very strong flexibility, flexibility and, above all, security. For example, I have a feeling in that good company that the workers have it all guaranteed anyway. The biggest problem is for bad companies or those who go into insolvency. And there's nothing there for people. They have no flexibility, no flexibility, no security. That is why we must ensure that in this triangle of the agency, which, because of me, is also an employment agency, a company and a country to help with certain co-operation and advice, the worker can be provided with security, especially to a worker, so that when he does not have a job on the market, he can, for example, forgive a certain part of the workers and get them back quickly, even if they need to be trained and trained differently. Of course, an employee should also devote his time and some money to the restructuring of education, training or, if necessary, education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mags a question. Happy Zerjav, who is officially absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. It's so nice to have all of you here. For many years, calls for a fairer and more transparent regulation of the area of remuneration to be paid under the Copyright and Related Rights Act by craftsmen, entrepreneurs and event organizers have been present in the public. The Office of Intellectual Property belongs to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is responsible for drafting legislation in this field, as well as for authorizing collective organisations to carry out their activities and to oversee their activities. However, the system-wide regulation of this area does not seem to satisfy any of the stakeholders: not authors and not those liable to pay the compensation for the public use of music. That's why I want to know: Does Mr. Minister plan amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and in which direction will he regulate the area? Will he ensure that copyright protects authors and not collective organisations and their cash registers or eliminates the monopoly Sazas has in the field of small music rights? How, when or if a review of the operations of these organisations has ever been carried out? How is it possible for the author to play his own funds live, to play the same songs on the CD during his concert, and during his break, for the organizer of the event or for the organizer of the concert, Sasasu, to pay the compensation? All these answers are of interest to me, and I expect, or please, if the distinguished minister gives them to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you very much. With respect to your question and your request, there will be a mag. Radovan Žerjav answered in writing. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Radovan Žerjav, who is absent today, and Minister of Infrastructure and Space for Mr Zvonko Černač, who is present here. Here you go, Mr. Misich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and Mr. Minister, Mr. Chernač! My question concerns the eternal problem of Luke Koper, so I'd like to ask you a few more explanations. Gentlemen mag. On the other hand, I will ask Joyful Zereva to give me a written answer to her part of the question or part of her answer. The port of Koper is strategically important for Slovenia, yet the port has been waiting for the promised development for many years. Until now, it has successfully competed with ports in Trieste and in the river and is even in advantage, but it can quickly turn around and turn around, as all indicators show, unless, of course, the country decides in a short time how it will successfully develop our only seaport. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: When do you intend to publish the intention, plan and strategy of managing Luke Koper's assets? I also want to know: Do you think that Luka Koper is one of the strategic, capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia and what role do you play in the transport or maritime sector policy regarding port infrastructure development and management? Luka Koper is the most appropriate and important comparative advantage of Slovenia in relation to partner European countries. If we failed to recognize this after twenty - two years of independence, it is more than sad. What is happening, the Minister of Respect, also by reference to the congregation in Luka Koper, and it is assumed that it is not on the supervisory committee of the supervisor, the representative of the local community, the Municipality of Koper, or you feel that it is in the municipality of Koper, where Luka Koper represents one of the key contaminants and so on. Maybe there's a lot of blame here not to involve the local community. The local community has always been in the Luke Koper Statute, and this is written down, and I think that this proposal, when this manoeuvre, which the Government had foreseen and then the assembly was cancelled, is not good for the planned development of Luka Koper. The port of Koper represents not only a window in the world for the Republic of Slovenia, it represents a window into the world for the whole of Europe. I think it's a remarkable potential to waste. These benefits that we have should be better able to take advantage of. I'm asking you nicely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u64	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I have to say that I share an opinion with you, at least to understand it was so that Luka Koper was not well managed and not well managed. However, I must say at the same time that the Ministry does not have any direct powers with regard to the administration and appointment of the Supervisory Board of this company. Luka Koper is still in charge of the supervisory board that was appointed during the previous government in 2009, and in Luka Koper there is more or less the same administration as the last three or four years. As you know, the National Assembly adopted the Slovenian State Holding Act last year, which was also established at the end of last year. The investment of the State in Luka Koper was carried out by the Capital Investment Management Agency and proposals were made for the appointment of individual members of the Supervisory Board. After the entry into force of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the competence of the AUKN came to the Slovenian Compensation Society during the transitional period until the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding Authority. It is the responsibility of the Government under this law to propose to the National Assembly, in agreement, the qualification of SDH investments, which will also be done. The classification of investments in accordance with Article 32(3) of the Slovenian State Holding Act will be valid for a period until the implementation of the strategy in accordance with Article 9 of the Act and the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board after it has been appointed will be required to prepare an investment management strategy within six months of the appointment. It will be accepted by the Government, and consent will be given to it by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u66	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u67	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand from your response that even though you are the Minister of Infrastructure, you do not have, without being competent, but simply do not have the specific power to act in such important matters for the development of our country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has completely ignored the motivation mechanism of the population for development projects and with political staffing, however, the Government is the one who is recruiting, and the Government is the one who decides on the fate of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. In Luka Koper, we know that this manoeuvre is very present, not only in this reference, but in all previous references we know that it has been framed according to political fitness. As a result, Luka Koper is increasingly on the verge or will stand, whether she will abstain and bring to the country what was actually put and placed in a space in the Bay of Koper a long time ago. I would be very happy, like all Koprčanka and Koprčany, to resolve this issue once and for all; that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should speak openly and properly to the local community. We know that there is also a passenger terminal, which brings us investors and investment and tourism, because we know that there is a major economic sector on the entire Slovenian coast and also in Crassus tourism and that what we could achieve with Luka Koper would also be achieved by the development of passenger terminals. We have investors, but we have an unprepared policy or an unprepared government to accept it. I don't know why these processes don't simplify and why we don't start thinking and acting and doing what we were elected to do. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u68	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much for these additional questions. If I understand correctly, there was a clear indication of the political recruitment of the government in Luka Koper. I told you earlier that in Luka Koper there are still supervisors who were appointed in 2009. In any case, it is a form of political recruitment, whether directly or through the Capital Investment Management Agency. Let me read them to you: Dr. Janez Požar, Dr. Marko Simoneti, Jordan Kocjančič, Tomaž Može and Sabina Mozetič, and Mr Brank, who has been acting as CEO of the administration of Luka Koper for some time now, his status in the supervisory world has been frozen. All of these were appointed on 14 July 2009, and in addition three employees were also appointed during that period. Thus, it would be very difficult to accept this evidence of political recruitment, at least as far as the present government was concerned. What is more important is the finding that it is an important investment by the State, that it is some kind of strategic space within the port of Koper, and for this reason it is also inappropriate that activities do not take place in this way in recent years, as in view of the strategic position expected. Business data also say that Luka Koper last performed a positive business in 2008, i.e. during the period of that extremely publicly incriminated administration, and no more after that period. Information on business activities also suggests that in all of this period it is slightly better only in 2011, so in the year in which these supervisors, mentioned earlier, dismissed the President of the Administration, and it is premature for them to fail to meet their expectations – I am talking about Mr Veselek, who was not set up by this government, but by another previous government, which ruled in 2009. To conclude, I can only say that the Ministry unfortunately does not have direct powers to prevent ineffective and uneconomic behaviour, which we have witnessed for quite some time, but especially in the last year, and I expect Members and Members of the National Assembly to take seriously the Slovenian State Holding Act, in particular the classification of investments and everything else that follows, including decisions on the SDH administration itself and its supervisory board, and through these decisions, to allow not only for this case and with this important state of investment, but also for all others in the future to be better, better and better, but especially in the interests of the activity and public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u71	Vice President, thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the reply of the Minister be held in public debate in the National Assembly. We both agreed with the ministers, and we have found that this is an extremely important issue that is not being resolved and that is being resolved and which may threaten the further development not only of the coastal zone, the coastline and Crassus, but also of the whole of Slovenia. Mr Minister, when you said that by 2008 Luka Koper was doing positive work – by 2008 we could have said that we were living in a period of prosperity, which has nothing to do with illegal or even criminal acts that have taken place in Luka Koper in recent years. However, I would not discuss this issue, and I am not as interested in this history as I am in what we are going to do for tomorrow and for our future. We were talking about young people, my colleague Stepišnik asked about youth employment, what would happen if we built everything that the forerunners built and gave us to continue to manage. We have endangered the entire Slovenian economy and if we do not invest in such an important infrastructure complex, facilities such as Luka Koper, then I do not see any progress, I do not see economic growth and I do not see any green light for this country. I therefore justify my request for an explanation or to hold a debate on this subject in the National Assembly. I think that once we need to discuss a specific project more broadly than just putting dozens of projects or hundreds of projects on the table and then talking on the average. We can have five projects of key importance, strategic importance for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, and let us talk about this. After we have finished and when we agree on what we will do with the key projects that have strategic importance for the development of the country, then we will discuss the following five projects and so on. The first five, however, must support the other five and so on. Not just by talking about some projects! About development, specifically Luke Koper, I have not seen any concept, no concept, where there are other very important and strategic projects in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much. With regard to your proposal, we will decide on Wednesday in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to a question that Mr Mirko Brulc will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonko Cernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u73	Mr. Secretary! In early January, the government irradiated electricity due to renewable energy subsidies. In an impossible situation, however, by increasing contributions, Slovenia's industry, especially steel, paper and chemical. On average, 316.6 % of the increase in the contribution to industrial customers is forecast for 1 February, for those with a high-voltage discount of even 392 %. This is an exceptional burden for businesses. The Chamber of Commerce points out that the additional costs of raising the contribution homage the economic sectors and businesses as well as a significant negative impact on the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. With this policy, the Government has a large share of responsibility for the expected developmental stagnation of a number of companies, to reduce exports, for the possible decision of owners to start moving abroad or to develop sister companies abroad, and consequently for fewer jobs in Slovenia. This is why the Economic Chamber strongly opposes, as it says, the government's policy of electroshock and calls on the Government to review its decision and thus prevent the increase of the contribution. It also calls on the Ministry of Finance not to implement the projected increase in energy excise duty for a further 50%. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are very concerned about the consequences that the increase in the contribution will bring, especially in the recession in which we are seriously endangering the existence of the Slovenian industry. The prognosis is alarming. The Slovenian steel industry will lose as much as €2.4 million due to its contribution, and 392% in Acronya will pay the circus €2 million 150 000, and a million €200,000 will be paid in Storera Steel and so on, and 6 and a half million additional financial burden will be paid in Tallum. The increase in the contribution will also have a drastic impact on Metal Levels: not to list other companies – Palome, Videm Krske and so on. Minister, I'm asking you: How will the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space provide the basic conditions for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, with the Government agreeing in early January to an act establishing a contribution to support the production of electricity in cogeneration with high efficiency and renewable sources? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u74	Here you go, Mr. Minister Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much for that question. First, if we could avoid this increase, we would be happy to do so, believe me. I'll explain later why this happened and what the cause is and what the result is. Secondly, it is not a 316% increase in electricity, that there will be no misunderstanding, but this support scheme, which in the final sum of energy prices means a slightly higher increase, about 6%. In an average household, say, about two and a half euros a month. Why did this happen? In 2010 and 2011, in particular in the second half of 2011, Slovenia recorded a remarkable growth in solar power plants or so-called photovoltaics. This has already been the case in 2011, and this is at the time of the previous government, the target set out in the 2020 action plan, namely the installation of 139 megawatts of these solar power plants. During this period, this technology has proven to have progressed extremely rapidly. Of course she did. The machines were always cheaper. However, the harmonisation of the support scheme – i.e. the support provided by the State for the installation of these devices – was not followed. This first change in support of this photovoltaic should have taken place in 2011, in our opinion, this has not happened. The first change was with 1. Seven. 2012 and later at 1. 12. 2012. These amendments to this Regulation on support for this scheme have, in some way, stopped this uncontrolled growth in support of photovoltaics, as it has been estimated that technology has advanced so far that such large support is no longer needed and, thus, we have curbed the increase in costs. Of course, we couldn't get this thing back together. Why not? Due to the fact that the support scheme takes place for 15 years under the conditions applicable when the device was put into production or connected to the network. This means that this photovoltaic support scheme will have to be provided for another 13, 14 and more years – 15 years. It was the responsibility of the Government to ensure the implementation of the support scheme, since these funds had started to lack, to conclude that agreement was reached on the Act of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Energy establishing a contribution to the provision of support for electricity production in cogeneration with high efficiency and renewable sources, on the basis of the provisions of the last paragraph of Article 64 n of the Energy Act and Article 4 of the Regulation on the method of determining and calculating the contribution to the provision of support for electricity production in cogeneration and renewable energy sources. This has provided some stable funds for the implementation of support in 2013 and the next paid by the Borzen Support Centre. The procedure, as I mentioned earlier, is not even possible under the terms of the contracts signed so far. Further, the Energy Act provides for the possibility of limiting the annual growth of support for these facilities and the amendment of the law will also provide the possibility of additional resources for the support scheme, which will not only be those such as now, the real payout of electricity consumption, with a view to decompressing end-users, particularly those companies that, as you yourself have mentioned, are the most affected. The government has examined very closely the situation and also the situation in the field of electricity prices. In the last period, as you know, electricity has decreased by more than 10 % over the last year. At the same time, the government, while increasing this contribution, ensured a 6% reduction in the transmission network and abolished the contribution to ensuring security of electricity supply, which is more than €7 million per year, otherwise this effect would be significantly greater.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u76	Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. You really answered me in that last part. Everything goes down, but the price goes up. Is this about 300% or [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] In the newspaper I read, say Akroni Jesenice, "we will pay 14 times more than competitors in Germany." [[...]] I know why this happened: because, as you yourself said, photovoltaic support schemes. With this photovoltaic, we're going to have problems because recycling these solar cells is going to cost extra. But I think there's some new electric barons coming into this account, like they used to be building barons and someone else. These support is far too beneficial, certainly harmful during this crisis and, as you have predicted, with some law, it will have to be rectified. While the SDS party has very "successfully" repaired some laws for the return, pension and so on, and try to do something about this support scheme so that the contracts signed will be amended and that they will not be such a burden on the economy. Here we can say what we want, these companies will shut down because they cannot compete with others across Europe with such costs. I think this is the task of this government, and hurry up, because we know you're in a breakup, not after three years, but after one year of cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u78	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Some of the claims you have made, Sir Brulc, are true. You said support was too good. They're not anymore! Since 1 July 2012, when we have amended and reduced these support, these support are no longer as high as it was in 2011, in the time of the Pahor government or your government, Mr Brulc. And then it was time for action. Unfortunately, he was late. After 1 July 2011, one megawatt was installed on photovoltaics, and more than two years later, 139 megawatts. Thus, these support remains appropriate and allows the development of photovoltaics to continue and, on the other hand, the non-exhaustion of all other electricity consumers is simplified. In return, without amending the law, we cannot regulate this at the level of the regulation, but what was under the authority of the government or the ministry was regulated by the Ministry or the government. The companies will shut down because they pay 14 times as much as in Germany, you said. Don't hold it. Here I have Eurostat data at which the net price of electricity in the Republic of Slovenia is approximately 90% of the EU electricity price 27. For Germany, which you mentioned – the gross price is about 65.8% of the electricity price in Germany. Why? Because in the price of electricity in Germany this contribution is significantly higher than in Slovenia. In Slovenia, the average consumer in the household pays 158 euros per megawatt hour, in Germany 259.5 euros per megawatt hour, in the neighbouring Republic of Austria 197.5, in Denmark, even slightly less than 300 euros, because in all these countries they supply support for renewable resources from the electricity price. This is not the case; however, it is true that this contribution has increased and would have been even greater if the government, as I said, had reduced the network and abolished the contribution to ensuring security of electricity supply and if the price of electricity had not fallen naked over the last year. In December 2011, about €45 and €52, last December, €45. We are aware, however, that any additional contribution, even if it is not as significant as it was, I agree, in this case, represents an additional burden on the business. That is why I have said that we are exploring the possibilities for further development, which are all linked to the amendment of legislation and the energy law that is coming into the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will not ask for further public debate, because obviously all these directors of these big companies are lying and the price of electricity is great, we will be competitive in Europe and we will move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Radovan Žerjav, who is absent today, and Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u83	Good-bye. I'm not lucky enough to get both the competent ministers in a cup for that answer. My question concerns, for Kranj and Gorenjska a very important project, the environmental project Gorki. Somehow I don't get the right answer why the Kranjcans and Kranjčany and the rest of the Gorenjians lost their European money, while we did everything we needed to do; we also obtained building permits. Mr Minister, you have replied in writing to me that everything will be done to enable the Government to put this project back into priority projects. I would very much like to hear: When would the government do that or do that? In view of the fact that all the conditions are met and it is said that this project should have the best mark it can get. In short, the project's readiness is perfect. At the same time, I'd like to ask you: What does this slow breakdown of the government with which you are now burdening the whole country mean for our project, the Gorki project – we speak because I come from Kranj – and, of course, for all other European projects?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u84	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you for this question, I will also try to answer this part a little bit in the first part, where you expressed your regret that there are not both ministers here; even since Minister Žerjav is the one who coordinates all the ministers responsible for drawing on European funds, there are ministers and secretaries attending these meetings, and that I am practically at all the coordinations [[Incomprehensible]] Even present, and I can say a few words calmly about it. Minister Žerjav, as Minister responsible for the management of European projects, has indeed led this matter seriously and responsibly, and the results of this drawdown are now well known during last year. Based on the rebalancing and the commitments we made, 538 million, 97 percent of this pumping, it is said that total of these EUR 522 million has been paid back to the European cash register and that this progress has been made in all different areas last year; progress in this direction has been made in order to confirm the instruments of all – as you know – we have 4 billion 824 million at our disposal. Last year he went one step past 31. 1. and to 31. 12. According to 11 months, from 4 billion 7 million to 4 billion 711, 79.65 percent, signed contracts from 2 billion 920 to 3 billion 442 and paid from billions 864 to 2 billion 409 or 50 percent of all available funds. From here, I can only say that in these projects, and I will answer your question, we had a very difficult task in these coordinations last year and, first of all, in the ministries, that we went from project to project, from those who already have decisions, to all those who are being processed at the Ministry. Let me just say, in our area of environment, where drinking water, waste water, municipal waste and flood safety are at our disposal, about €550 million of European funds are already allocated to 29 projects, from here on 76 million are still available. At the October 15th meeting, we set out these 5 projects and at the same time set out this so-called "overcommitment" whereby we want these available funds, 550 million, for our area to raise from 550 to these 730 million, and from here on also to place these projects in view of the fact that there is a fear that any of these projects that have been granted a decision in the past will not be fully implemented and that these projects can be replaced and that we can also define them in agreement with the mayors. This was included in this "over committee", 10 projects, and beyond this there are 17 projects that have been processed in the past, including your Gorkas, which together weigh € 160 million. I am now talking about what we discussed on 15 October, when we first set up and also adopted this "over committee" in the Government. Since then, we have also reviewed these projects, which were not included in the "over committee", including this group of the last 17 projects, because we have seen as soon as possible that in the framework of these projects, a number of projects will be in trouble, and difficulties in obtaining documentation. In these coordinations, we have then agreed, together with the other ministers, that the priority and priority of the projects is now that of the project which has the documentation longer, for which it is realistic that we can start drawing on these funds this year. Such a group also includes your project, the Gorka project, as well as some of these projects from this last group, which are also somewhat smaller than those of the first and second groups, for which there is virtually no longer a real possibility to be carried out in this financial perspective. Therefore, the proposal for a government meeting to be considered was now last Thursday that the condition that, in early February, the tender documentation in the house will be in line with ours, by the end of February confirmed at the IGRT and at the ICC, a conditional permit is obtained to open the tender and those calls by 30. 6. In early July, we will reach a happy end – it is said that the contractor will be selected so that there will be no appeal proceedings, projects for which we will issue decisions and seven signatures of the co-financing agreement. So, really clean up the projects according to the state they're in. What's the situation, but I think you know well, and it's really huge. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. If I understand you correctly, the Gorka project will benefit from European co-financing if the municipalities are able to carry out the call for a start-up procedure – I will say construction, as this is also part of this – by the end of June. If that's the case, then I think we can calm down. However, I would ask again because I understood that the material has been forwarded to the Government, but obviously the Government has not dealt with it – I hope that this will not become a practice in these weeks, that there will not be any complications in the Government, even with what I say, if this is not being transmitted to the Government or by those ministers who have already announced their resignation in some way, because this would be the most terrible thing for Slovenia at this point in time. In short, the government itself dictates to its current ministers, who, if I know anything, are still fully operational. Maybe that's just the answer: When, according to your assessment, is the government supposed to take this decision and then probably inform the congregations to which it refers?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u88	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u89	Look, I don't want to confuse the current political situation in anything with this serious question that I think is one of the most serious, in the face of such a political crisis that I have to find the answers to. I can tell you peacefully that alone and all those who work at the Ministry – and we have given this very high priority last year – we will be working as officials by the last day – to use this term on the full and sure team as well. In accordance with the agreement, we have also established technical assistance in this intergovernmental coordination. We have decided that we have eight new co-workers in this area, because we will have a situation of good ten, fifteen active projects that have been created – with ten at the beginning of the year, more than fifteen now at the end – this project encroachers will be extended by at least ten projects this year, which will have to be fully monitored. And we're not tying anything here to this activity as far as the government is concerned. Neither was the Government, it was the regular point of the state of affairs on projects that are dealt with once a month, and I think this is a good practice to really see in the government. However, I have already said that every Thursday before the government at 9 a.m., we will meet and review and also make this key coordination necessary there. Whether the report would be reviewed monthly, last Thursday or next, has no bearing on this. As I said, this coordination is taking place and I am actively involved in the x projects myself – for Gorka I myself was present at three meetings and, as you have rightly established, for Gorka – here I also have a list of these projects that are now under review – for Gorka also applies until the beginning of February, no later than 10th, that this documentation is for us to harmonise and issue a conditional agreement on the invitation to tender by the end of February. [[...]] Conditionally, it means that there is no decision yet, but that the invitation to tender may fail. In the meantime, and from the end of February, three to four months from the end of February, which is the real process for such a major public procurement project, all the details necessary for the completeness of the application shall be removed in order to issue a decision after the tender has been concluded and on this basis also a co-financing contract. Thus, you have previously correctly determined how many in this group of these projects we are trying to take this road to the realisation of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žigi Turku, will be asked by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you. Dear Minister, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Although we know about the various interesting and ideological games of leading trade unions, we need to understand the vulnerability and vulnerability of the majority of the population due to the lowering of the material standard and further austerity measures of the Government and also of your ministry. However, the observer notes the following: a largely solidarity of the Slovenian people would not have responded in such a way as to make it clear that it is a necessity not to do otherwise. But people who really struggle to live painfully find out that there are so many public funds for culture and education in the pockets of few individuals in this area. A few months ago, the Slovenian public found out that 2.4 million euros of budget money through your ministry or the former Ministry of Education and Sport had ended up in the pockets of a particular interest group. However, the call was made for the establishment of implementing conditions for artificial education for the sustainability of development. The month of June 2010 was won by Limnos and the Maribor Faculty of Philosophy, and by your Ministry the project was taken care of by Dr. Andreja Barle Lakota, who serves as a lecturer at the same university. In July 2011, the contract was terminated, and a million Euros paid up to this day, according to my information. The case was also problematic in some media last August: Work, Evening and so on. It is true that all the irregularities mentioned have taken place in the previous mandate, and it is your responsibility to remedy the consequences and prevent them. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Is it true that these millions of euros have not yet been returned to the Treasury? Is it true that the people in the ministry who designed and led this call still perform responsible functions? Similar examples also occur in public calls for books, but they are discussed below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Minister Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport shall closely monitor the eligibility and regularity of all and every state budget transaction, and shall closely monitor the use of European Structural Funds funds. It was precisely for the sake of continuous supervision that the Ministry found irregularities in relation to the project in question mentioned by you and then immediately put in place corrective measures. The Ministry terminated this project with the establishment of implementing conditions for artificial education for sustainable development and called for the recovery of funds unduly paid. The beneficiary has not returned the funds unduly paid and the Ministry has therefore brought an action against the beneficiary. The case is currently in court proceedings and the Ministry will use all legal resources and act in accordance with European and national cohesion policy legislation to recover a million euro.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you for that part of the answer. As I have predicted, similar cases also occur in public calls for books, to mention only one. The newspaper Dnevnik of 18 June 2012 published a cultural response – apparently a white crow in this area – which wrote, among other things: "The public calls for the selection of cultural projects are made from the state treasury a great deal of money for books that fuel low passions and disintegrate, for books that do not describe and understand, for books that are only in the description of the project, but have never been printed." One reader responded to these disclosures in Dnevnik on 5 October 2012: "When the public question is rejected by culturers and users of budget money, we can talk about the anti-culture of cultural people." The Journal of 25 July 2012 states that the former director of the Public Agency for the book Slavko Pregelj and the current Minister of Culture Majda Širca are now preparing public calls for interested groups, thus eliminating useful books from co-financing and co-financing harmful – the intolerance of Slovenian reality. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: What did you do to prevent this intolerance of Slovenian reality from continuing? How do you manage to expose those coworkers in the ministry who, with their ugly, dishonest practices, are damaging the reputation of the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u96	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much for this part of the question. With regard to the intolerance of the Slovenian reality, I would really expect people less to contribute to this intolerance than they would have expected; intellectuals, who would expect above all sobriety and truthfulness. The fact is that the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport is funding the educational, scientific or cultural activities of some people who are exposed in their spare time to opponents of this government. But we are bound by existing treaties and, secondly, by the belief that we must not bind resources for education, science and culture to the criteria of political definition. This has not always been the case, even in the very near past, as you can see, no. But I assure you that the Ministry, under my leadership, has not approved any "art projects" aimed at mucking or mocking the leaders of the current opposition. This is also due to the renewed professional bodies of the Ministry or the Ministry. Culture, science and education everywhere are critical to power, even to politics – that is right, that is normal; but only totalitarian regimes are known cases where the insults of political opponents are financed by public funds. I don't want to do this or that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Pavlič will also ask Minister Žiga Turku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u99	Mr. Secretary! How do you feel about the fact that the last 14 days have been talking about you and your decisions in practically every Slovenian family — unfortunately in a bad sense? I refer to the drastic changes you make in high school enrolment, so to speak, high school and economic high school. With the professors, the students, the professionals and the general public, we tried to understand your decision, but unfortunately we failed. In certain environments, you cancel the enrolment departments in high school, in other environments you merge high schools into centers, add some new departments again, and all of this changes over the weekend. I want you to explain to me your vision of the high school network, because there is simply no smart criterion here that you have decided to make this decision. Our view is that the results of work or quality should be the only criterion. If I present a rudimentary economic high school, which you are also terminating; the only one who had a supernormal 32 students in last year, but 4 had to refuse, I can say that she has high scores in graduates. She has golden graduates, among those who graduated from this school, there are many masters and doctors of science who have established themselves both at home and abroad. Upper Gorenska reduces or loses access to enrollment in high school programmes, which was 33% before this decision, now decreases it below 25%, while in the Central Slovenian region this percentage reaches almost 45%. The next argument that this high school should remain is that education has also been given to students coming from less stimulating social backgrounds, and there have been many good results in this high school. I want to know: Why did you cancel your decision to the Ruše High School, which had only 21 enrolled students last year? I also ask you: Where are the arguments, analyses and other reasons that led you to these decisions? Where is the evidence that action is not political, friendly, unprofessional, or even corrupt?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u100	Minister Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much for that question. First, a few numbers on the issue of the honourable Member. We do not increase the number of cities in any high school according to the number of sections of this year's first year. This applies to both public and private secondary schools — everything you have predicted in the written question is not true. Secondly, as shown in the published data, the number of places of entry decreased by 449 compared to last year's school year. However, since 445 students were actually enrolled last year less than the entry places, this means that this year we have applied for four fewer places for high school, I repeat, four fewer places than last year's first year of high school. So we pour newspaper ink, we do TV shows, we answer parliamentary questions, and as you said, in many families, I am the enemy of these families, or of children, or of country number 1, because the number of places in the high schools this year is four smaller than the number of young people enrolled in high school last year. Otherwise, it is also known that the number of young people who will be nine this year will be smaller than last year’s, which means that entry places are enough for all who will be enrolled in high school. We also wrote that any additional requests for additional new departments in high school will be examined after the end of the deadline. If this is going to be a high school and really a high school interest, a greater interest, a significantly greater interest than what we have called for, we will take this into account. With regard to the school you mentioned, it is also known that they were in high school to fill out a department of high school, to prescribe, to convince that children whose first wish was some other program at that same school were copied there. So much for the intro. The invitation to enroll in secondary school programmes for school 2013/2014 was published in accordance with the calendar on 22 January. The primary school concludes 17 000 640 students and students who will be able to run for 22 000 759 places in secondary schools. Thus, 736 entries are totaled more than last year, although the number of nine students is lower, giving future students more choice. Indeed, in the invitation to tender, we are giving the highest priority to vocational and professional education and we are allowing schools to enter most of the programmes for which they have proposed the deployment of vacancies. After the application process has been completed, schools will be able to decide for themselves which professions they will carry out, depending on the number of applications, or the school for which they will carry out their professions. We have also listened to the argument of individual managers who wanted an open opportunity for a professional direction. We will encourage schools mainly in deficit and rare professions, for which the economy and the needs of the local environment are also of high interest. In order to reduce the entry, we decided on the basis of the budget options envisaged, demographic projections, enrolment trends, taking into account in particular the first application, what young people are really interested in, regardless of where the places and numbers are registered, the needs of the labour market, the available teaching places in the employers, the opinions of the social partners, the developmental specificities of the area, the objectives set by the Government, that is also decentralisation, and the well-founded proposals of schools. We also took into account the size of the school, the material conditions, if a school had just been renovated, for example, and the regional location.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. More supplemental? Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u103	Mr. Minister, I was talking about Upper Gorenjska, you were talking about the whole of Slovenia. In Upper Gorenjska, 118 students are not enrolled in the next school year and will have to go to school in another region. What you said about not opening up new departments is, of course, possible what you did over the weekend, because every day or every hour your decisions change, depending on who managed to get to the Ministry for any answer. However, I must say that the experts of both the benevolent and otherwise referred to the Ministry, and unfortunately the relationship was ignorant and they did not receive an answer. The next thing that bothers me is what you said in the paper that high schools have to attract the best, but they can't sign everybody. As I have already said, the criterion is the result of the graduation, which has certainly been proven by the economic high school in Radovljica. I feel like you just don't want and you're ashamed of the good results and the good students. If I were to say that it is necessary to maintain the choice of education and allow everyone to enter the school they want, because I have the feeling that you simply want to regulate the policy of the economy that this government does not know how to run through admission to secondary school. So, tell me the real reason why it was, because these criteria that you're referring to, you've captured all the schools with these criteria. In the paper, I read these criteria that you're quoting, and it was easy to choose at your request. But the criteria were taken down by all the schools on the list. The real reason, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u104	Dr. Turk, the real reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On the one hand, we would like to answer the question why, in relation to a particular school, and so on, of course, not you and I do not want the rules not to apply to all the same, and this is the case. If you look at enrolment statistics in high school for the last years, you will find that the percentage of enrolment in high school has grown over the last 20 years. I find it hard to believe that children have become smarter. 20 years ago, about a fifth of children were capable of a high school program, now you want to convince me that they are 40%, sometimes 50% of children with a high school program. It just doesn't hold. I'm sorry that no one, even here, is having trouble getting into technical and vocational schools, but only in high school. And our duty, not only mine, but also yours, is to inform citizens, parents, future students that high school no longer provides, if ever, a comfortable office work from the end of school to retirement. In the developed world, including Slovenia, the most rapidly disappearing are the less demanding office jobs, which are usually occupied by less capable high school graduates and, that is, those who are not up to the creative and innovative challenges. Economic high school — those who sign up there belong exactly in this category. Therefore, it must be our interest, the interest of the whole country, that very good students are enrolled in high school, which will also allow for higher quality of work in high school.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pavlič, a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u107	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like the general debate to be held on the Minister's reply. In particular, because the minister states that, while it is also written on the website, students can be enrolled in high school, imagine how they can be enrolled in something that will not exist. [[...]] I don't think anyone's gonna sign in, 'cause he's gonna stay at the door. What I want and for which I want an additional debate to be held is to make it easy to use the same vats for all to take account of quality and quality. All the arguments in Radovljica talk about staying here. Schools that have had worse results at the graduation remain, and you are joyfully shutting down. I would simply say that this problem is really so big, three colleagues have already dealt with these problems before me, they have been looking at you in different ways, with different tools, and I think that in this case too we should reconsider and finally decide for the Economic High School and the Radovljica High School and let this department sign in; everything that needs to be done to allow entry. If there are not enough entries – clearly there will not be a section!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you for your proposal. It will be decided in the context of Wednesday's vote. Now it's mag's turn. Leila Hercegovac, who has a question for the Minister of Health, who is absent, but please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u109	Dear President, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Since Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar is not among us, he asks a written answer to my question. The key challenges for achieving and following the basic principles of the improvement of the health system are prevention and promotion of health, sustainability of the healthcare system within the framework of financial capacity, effective public resources management – that is, clear separation of public and private health. I'm asking the minister: What has the Ministry of Health already begun to achieve in the past mandate period from these key challenges for the improvement of the health system? At what stage are projects already under way within the competent ministry? Indeed, we know that proper and effective action is the separation of public and private health. This must be controlled and given that the minister has already issued — 16. 1. In Del, there were 26 permits to carry out a business with a business contract, but it is a very interesting issue for the development of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. You will receive a written answer to your question. It's mag. Jana Jenko with a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u111	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Thank you very much. My question is for the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Bogovic, concerning the treatment of waste packaging – a long-standing popular matter. The Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste provides that waste management companies must take over all the waste packaging collected from public service providers in shares published annually by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. However, companies do not adhere to this, so the so-called packaging crisis has arisen throughout Slovenia, as operators face the problem of where to put this waste packaging. The Court of Auditors has already concluded in 2009 that the waste packaging management system is not effective because the Ministry has not defined all the necessary parameters for the operation of participants in the system. Therefore, in March 2012, a special Commission was set up to submit proposals for solutions to the Ministry, although nothing has moved to a better one and the packaging crisis has also resumed at the end of 2012. Companies and contractors blame each other for the situation and both of them expect any reaction from the Ministry and, in particular, the Environment Inspectorate. In the case of operators or subcontractors, more than 2 000 tonnes of waste packaging were stored at the end of 2012. There is also a question on the liability for environmental duty – perhaps the regulation of this area would somehow resolve this matter. As an example, the liability for payment of the environmental duty in Slovenia is the packaging and the acquirer of the packaged goods, which puts on the market or use for its own purposes more than 15 tonnes of packaging each year, and in neighbouring Austria, it is already liable for 500 kg of such packaging. I'm asking the minister: Does it assess whether the system regime for handling waste packaging in Slovenia, in particular the market system aspect, is appropriate or whether any changes are planned in this direction? The waste accumulates and the involved place the responsibility on each other. There are quite a few municipalities facing this problem, such as Tržič, which has 120 tonnes of waste, Maribor, Koper, Novo mesto So I ask the minister: Will the Ministry finally reach into this obvious systemic problem and take appropriate measures to prevent the removal and accumulation of waste packaging from public service providers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much for this question, which I must say you are opening with it one of the serious issues that we still have to resolve in Slovenia. To answer very briefly; if necessary and necessary, and we also have a purpose this year – the normative programme is to amend this regulation, which speaks of packaging and waste packaging. In a very good question, from which there is a very good knowledge of this issue, you have essentially described the system in which we have, on the one hand, those responsible for paying for the packaging under the system of so-called extended liability, namely, companies that are manufacturers, importers, distributors of this packaging to the market – and, on the other hand, those companies for handling this waste packaging that they receive in this relation from the packaging part of this packaging, which is collected in the Slovenian space, will also finish this separately collected packaging and also collect this waste packaging from the utilities. The key problems that need to be addressed by the new regulation are: for the first time, a fairer loan – what you have pointed out. We all find that what comes through customs comes from these charged packages, that it is less than we should have picked up. You have rightly found that a whole range of small suppliers are literally leaving this system and therefore the first problem is that we have too little money in circulation, given the amount of waste packaging and packaging. This is the first focus in which the amended Regulation actually needs to change these relations. The second is to monitor this basic flow of this packaging, where, in fact, the cut at the beginning of the year is not closely monitored over the year. In fact, what happened to us last year was that some of these companies were convinced to deal with waste packaging that they had already collected their share and that the waste packaging remained a problem. Here the problem is now that there is really a lot done in the second part, it is said in the area of separate collection, and that the proportion of waste packaging collected separately is higher from year to year. Here is also what you have pointed out, as well as the Court of Auditors report – a very large and difficult question of how to distinguish between the ratios, what municipal companies do, the waste packaging centres in relation to waste packaging companies and those who provide services for them. In these reports of the Court of Auditors, there is also a very clear direction, and in this too, we want to arrange that those utilities and those collecting systems that generate more, better-collected packaging, packaging, which also has added value, should also be stimulated. It is said that the value that is sometimes also measured in decimals or hundreds of euros per tonne of packaging would be of some value, and that this would also reduce the cost of collection for those who do more in a separate part of the collection. This is a new area where regulations must be made clear, what packaging they take over and under what conditions of the company for waste packaging. And a third. In the system where the triangle is located: the liability of the waste packaging company-those who manage the services to come into such a relationship that we will not have the loss of part of the money in this triangle; either it is in the relation of the waste packaging company, whose founders, at least the largest, are those who place waste packaging on the market and part of these services themselves or those who provide services for them. So I have to say that all these problems are detected, and the group will continue this work intensively, which, in truth, has been somewhat neglected this year, given that colleagues doing this work are numerically limited, but we had a regulation on municipal waste management, the establishment of an entire system, the use of cohesion funds and the establishment of an entire system, the methodology for determining the prices of operational municipal waste management programmes and we were simply not able to process it in last year. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] One of the first ones we'll start in the next few weeks. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jenko, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I am particularly interested in some future framework: By what time, if you can say the deadline, will you take this seriously? Somehow this lack or overburden of staff, given that this crisis has been going on for three years, I think that Erjavaca too took the case back then in 2010. So far, the population has essentially been burdened with paying these things. For example, the market is very good at sorting the products and they are taken away by society. [[...]] It is heard that companies do not drive away because they have a coherent balance at the end of the year. In this sense, I am also interested in: Do you have any system for punishing these companies or a system that somehow forces them to take the package away? I have seen in the case of Tržič that two companies have somehow fulfilled their obligations and two companies have quite a backlog at the end of the year. I am particularly interested in sanctions for these companies: Do you have an option and a time frame for this to be resolved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you, too, for this supplement or request for a supplement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u117	As regards the preparation of the Regulation, it is envisaged that by the end of March we should try to harmonise the Regulation and then put it into discussion. We know that this will be a difficult debate in the broad field. As far as sanctions are concerned, the problem is whether the distribution of this quota is appropriate to date, given that it relates to last year and that it is not exposed to ongoing monitoring of this waste packaging. In this part, it is also the responsibility of the regulation to remove this deficiency, to at least quarterly monitoring of what is carried out, and to that end a cash flow that will also follow the same packaging flow. The sanctions, I must say, have not been very successful in this part of the investigation. We have to admit it peacefully. As far as these other things are concerned and as you mentioned, these loving cans and garbage are very dangerous for environmental ministers, I can only attach and I think that you will agree that we had a big acute problem in the spring, how – and the real number of people involved. Perhaps the citizens think that there are dozens of people working here, and at the end of the regulations you get everything for a slightly larger table, both from both departments, for public services, for the environment, and from Ars. This is a circle of eight, ten people to follow. Last year we did our best, and now at the end of the month, nine landfills will have a valid OVD so that waste can be disposed of. In the next two three months, four or five such landfills will be counted and a storage space will be provided for all four million tonnes. Through the parallel positioning of investments and the development of a strategic document, the Operational Programme for the Management of Municipal Wastes has been practically also laying the groundwork for the overall regulation, which has been discussed throughout last year and in some way also made these distinctions between municipal companies, among the companies involved in packaging. Indeed, this is an area that I believe needs at least two mandates of very systematic work, and then all problems will be solved. All of them are simply in one year, and I do not think they will be able to be saved in one term.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper, a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, as announced, I have one question concerning the so-called Bad Bank Act. Much has already been said about this law, in particular its basic content, so my question is not related to the part relating to the rehabilitation of banks, which is the position of Positive Slovenia in this regard, we have already said. This legal part of the law refers more to determining the responsibility of members of supervisory authorities and members of management bodies in these banks. This law, in particular from the mouth of the President of the Government and also from the mouth of other members of the Government, is often given some of the dimensions that I think it does not have. In fact, it is imputed to the law that with its help it will be possible to settle or settle with all those who have acted in the past by bringing our banking system into the situation in which it is now. I have carefully examined this law, as you probably do, and the only article relating to this issue is Article 33, which has exactly this title, which I am now talking about, the responsibility of the members of the bank management and supervision body and the supervisory authorities of the banks, but in this article I cannot find anything other than that those who will act under this Article may be able to review these credit maps if they find that the offence is suspected, report it or even have to, or even have to, be followed by sanctions under the second paragraph — say, resolution or termination of a working relationship. That's the first part. The second part of the article, however, discusses this significant limitation period, which is to be extended. In short, as a lawyer, I can't find any tools in this law that would really allow the prosecution of these crimes, because if someone detects a crime in their work, they must report it to law enforcement authorities, or if they do not, it may be wrong, especially if it is an officially prosecuted crime, which is the case here. The second example is the statute’s statute of limitations. This limitation period, four times, completely disrupts all outdated relations in the Penal Code. For example, the statute of limitations on these crimes is equivalent to the statute of limitations, such as pedophilia-related offences and so on. On the other hand, this article does not fall under this law, since statutes of limitations usually fall under criminal and bond laws. In short, my question in the first part: Do you really think - and Positive Slovenia wants this - that by means of this law we can find and effectively prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u120	Here you go, Dr. Shutterschitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u121	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question and also for your interpretation of these articles of the law you spoke of. When we adopted these laws, there was also a great deal of evidence in the public that it was an attempt to inquisitorialize, a coup against bankers. Even the bankers’ association or individuals from it have said similar things, and I myself have had a few visits from bankers who have said that this law could be a basis for a race against bankers. I am pleased that your interpretation of these articles is much more kind and benign, if I may say so, than what could have been heard when we adopted the law. If I try to answer your question, it is a fundamental matter which is a problem when someone who is responsible for banks such as the Ministry of Finance wants to contribute to investigating the suspicions of certain crimes and so on. Let me first say that I am sure that much of what we consider to be bad claims today is due to the economic crisis, but it is due to some normal business risks that are always at stake in decisions; but surely one part is also due to procedures that we can call abuse of the situation, excess of powers and so on, which is still a crime. In fact, our basic thinking went in this direction, if we potentially engage, say, four billion, which is the upper limit of these guarantees, and for a billion recapitalisations, that people have a legitimate expectation that at the same time we will try to find fault and responsibility – even where it is a responsibility that can be criminalized. The Ministry of Finance does not have any powers without this legal provision. I can't go to the bank and ask them to show me, explain some loans and so on. Even when the media are writing about this, because banking secrecy is in place, the Bank of Slovenia is the only one who can do it. As far as I know, Banka Slovenije sometimes lodges a complaint. Of course, someone else is filing a complaint, and some of these things, which have not even started in our mandate, some investigations have already started before, and are now slowly in court with the investigating authorities. What we naturally conclude is that these credit maps, which will be transferred to a bad bank, to the Bank's Claims Management Company, on the basis of the assessment that these are bad loans here, inherited loans and so on, are probably part of the claims where it is most likely that in certain cases these practices, which are so pervasive, are suspected of crimes. What we wanted to say with this law – and this is not the mandate of the Ministry of Finance, but these banks' debt management companies – is that when these credit maps get that, while solving the problem of these loans, they also review this folder on the basis of the documentation that this company will have access to – this documentation is still protected in relation to the public with bank secrecy, and not in relation to the company for bank claims management – that it has this responsibility to review. So perhaps the article is somewhat embarrassingly written in the sense that someone detects a trace of a crime — or how you quoted it. Of course, the Bank's Claims Management Company will also have some auditors, an audit committee, which will review these maps and what appears to it to be suspicious that there are some crimes in place, mediating them to the competent authorities. After some suspicion, of course, they still have certain powers today that are sufficient to investigate these matters. What is still important in this law, and yet it is somewhat different in this general duty for everyone to declare a crime, if he is observed or perceived, is that a sanction for the dismissal of members of the administration is also at risk if they do not. And that's very important. As a result, I think it will be quicker to clear up matters so that they can get to the competent law enforcement authorities, the NPUs and so on and then have the appropriate authority to investigate matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I agree with your implementation that this may have made it even more clear that these suspicions will be reported if they are identified, although here also respected Dr. Ribnikar, professor at the Faculty of Economics, age of banking, asks what will actually be the task of this society: to manage bad claims or to hunt witches. But there's something else I'd like to point out. The whole public - and therefore I want to make this clear today - thinks that, on the basis of this provision and this law, it will be possible to find the culprit for past misdeeds. And I reiterate, and I am sure that I am right, I have asked myself five more times, even though I was already sure of it, the statute of limitations and the new statute of limitations within a four-time statute of limitations apply only to our legislation on crimes from now on. Our Penal Code is defined in such a way that the statute of limitations cannot be applied to criminal offences, or the law states that those provisions of the law that were in force at the time of the service of the offence are applicable. If the law is later amended, the provisions of the Penal Code, which are more favourable to the perpetrator, shall apply. Thus this image of people – and thus, for example, the President of the Government suggests that some do not want to adopt this law in order to protect someone – is wrong. For those who did so in 2004-2008, when most of these loans were loans, this law will not apply in this respect but will apply to new criminal services. I want to know: Does the ministry, however, consider how these procedures could speed up for those perpetrators who have acted in the past and have prompted them not to become obsolete after a regular period of time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u124	Minister, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u125	If this interpretation of yours is correct, then you'll have to work faster. We think the law can be implemented. I have told myself several times that within three months, it is possible to make bad claims to be tolerated in order to make programs. I think that by the end of the year all this can be completed, this transfer, and thus also the review of these claims. It's just a matter of time. Maybe some things will get old in the middle. Extraordinary audits have also been carried out in some banks, even as we ordered this year or last year, are being reviewed. The last meeting of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka was also marked by an extraordinary audit or forensic review of its foreign, Frankfurt and Zurich exhibitions. We can also read a lot about this, so I don't think we're waiting for these measures until the bad bank starts working. But it is true that I tried to explain earlier, because it will have a better insight into information, but it will be able to speed up these procedures and if it holds this interpretation of outdated deadlines, then they must also give some priority here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u126	Here you go, Mrs. Kociper, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u127	I make a procedural proposal in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, this topic seems very important to me, in order to hold a debate, particularly in this style, on how these crimes that have occurred in the past can be prosecuted as effectively as possible. Obsolete deadlines have changed according to our legislation at this time in the sense that absolute obsolescence is almost no longer possible, so any action, such as the prosecution can stop it. I think that the country already has enough tools in its hands, in particular the law enforcement authorities, to provide and restore that trust to people. In Positive Slovenia, however, it is particularly in our interest that no one thinks that we want this law not to be enforced because we are protecting anyone. We absolutely want these things to be clarified, that we, too, have an insight into who the people who have leased loans have passed the rules, and that these people, in accordance with the law, only have our own desire to prove responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your proposal, which will be decided on Wednesday's vote. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič – question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrea Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u129	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The newly adopted pension legislation has also made significant changes in the field of disability and pension insurance for those insured who voluntarily participate in this insurance. The definition of insurers as well as the basis for paying contributions has changed. Perhaps even the most radical change in this area was in some way the abolition of the right of protection for a narrower scope of rights, which, of course, also means a drastic increase in their contribution to such insurance. The comparison shows that this contribution also increases by three times; from poor €60 to €185 per month. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How many individuals have been voluntarily involved in pension insurance in the last five years, and what is the structure of these insurers? Among them, I am particularly interested in: How many are those who are long-term unemployed or self-employed? I also want to know: How many insured persons have been suspended or withdrawn from disability and pension insurance since the entry into force of this Act, mainly because this financial burden has increased for them? I also want to know: What is the financial impact of increasing the level of contributions to voluntary inclusion in pension and disability insurance at the annual level, according to the Ministry's assessment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u131	Your Honor, I am happy to answer your question. First: How many individuals have been voluntarily involved in pension and disability insurance in the last five years? These were poor 60,000 or exactly 59,310 insurance companies, including those who were only in such insurance for a week. So the times are very different. On December 31st, there are 28 thousand 216. What are the most numerous categories of insurers? For the first time, there are very many people who are unemployed and who are registered in the Employment Register of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for a narrower range of rights. That's a good 7 grand, that's 7 thousand 28. Then there are insured persons who carry out a separate agricultural activity and do not meet the conditions for inclusion in compulsory insurance, these for a wider scope of rights are 2 000 878 and then those who carry out a separate agricultural activity but for a narrower scope, but a thousand 878. Then there are insured persons who are employed with shorter working hours than full-time and are voluntarily insured to full-time – for a shorter range of 3 000 222. Thereafter, insured persons who have voluntarily entered the compulsory insurance within 6 months of the termination of the compulsory insurance shall be 2 000 538 for a smaller volume. These are the ones that are the most numerous, and I have a detailed list for the others. As far as the financial implications are concerned, we do not have this information because we do not know how it will proceed. Nor was it speculation or a reason why we went to do this when we changed those provisions. The structure, according to data, has so far emerged about 2 000 400 insured in this year and it should also be stressed that, according to the novelty or the amended law, it is possible to withdraw by the end of February – back to back. Thus, it is not all that matters from 1 January. So much for answering all your questions. I think I answered it all, but let me explain why we did it. We did this because we really want to apply the principle that pension and disability insurance is an insurance; it is said that you are paying and that you get the right to pay in proportion. That's the basic reason. Look, someone with 57 euros paid a month, that's, say, a good six euros a year, won one whole pension year. Imagine when someone is twenty-five years in the workforce and then is unemployed and pays six euros a year and then has a relatively high pension for the rest of his life after fulfilling the pension conditions, because he has a relatively strong average and pension age; he has everything. Here, too, there is an exceptional imbalance between the contributions paid and the rights acquired by such a person. There would be no problem that these seventy-seven euros in advance, if there is also a basis for insurance or that the pension is linked to all the contributions paid, at all forty years of retirement. However, this is not the case because, over a period of relatively low payments, it is possible to gain a strong retirement age, but this problem is a shift from what you pay to what you pay. Perhaps, honourable Member, we are also aware of various problems, in particular certain categories of people, in particular the long-term unemployed, and we are already preparing a change in the Ministry in order to introduce longer transitional periods for these categories, in particular for the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. You'd like a refill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Of course, your figures show that about 10% of such insured persons, who in fact bear this financial burden, are to such an extent that they are exempt from disability and pension insurance. Therefore, ten days ago, the Social Democrats also addressed you with an initiative to examine the situation carefully and to determine how we could act to avoid the material deterioration of these people's situation. It is undeniable that, after all, we have planned such a change in our pension reform that the principle of fairness must be applied to all beneficiaries. What may be at stake in this change, or what might be the case is that it refers to the actions we are facing, is this sudden and high change that truly poses an insurmountable obstacle to individuals. Therefore, I can only say that I welcome such thoughts, and I hope that we will get to know them as soon as possible in the National Assembly, despite what will happen to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I do not see the need for a supplement because this was your opinion, so we can go on with the next question that Mr Jožef Kavtičnik will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Recently, we have moved in with the success of our athletes and athletes, and these are bright and happy moments that we can hear and read in our media. These good results of athletes do not come from themselves, but are the fruit of more than a decade of well-organised sports work. I am sure that what I saw on TV — or have we seen — when the minister was looking forward to the success of Maze, sincere smiles and even the minister’s sincere wishes. But that's not enough. There's more to be done! The foundation of mass sport is set in kindergartens, in primary schools, in the youngest. What was being built, as I said, in all these years that the children had the opportunity to float to describe themselves that they were competing for a sports badge, this is the Little Sun, the Golden Sun, the Krapan and so on, Hura free time It somehow raised the morals of the children, and at the same time gave them the summer to start thinking and working and living sports. From this, individual clubs have also drawn on our greatest potentials, which have been proven in sport and will still be proven. Now I'm afraid that what the professional public is saying is that this system is beginning to change. It is said that this competitive system could be disrupted so that the way this organised work can be changed, but there is no telling how. I want the system to stay or to change to some extent, but before it changes, let it show itself in what way. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How do you plan to run these competitions, this way of organising sport for the youngest in school sports societies? Who would lead, organize, and supervise this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u136	Secretary of State, Dr. Giga Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you so much for asking. I'm a little surprised that these things are actually regulated by the 2013 annual sports programme. This annual programme of sport was adopted last Thursday, which gave a positive opinion on this programme of the Section for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the competent Directorate of our Ministry, as well as during inter-ministerial treatment, the matter was welcomed. In general, sport has preserved all the funds for programmes, increased investment funds four times. In short, we do not intend to change the established systems, but we want to reduce the direction and integrate more local communities into the primary sport system. In short, the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport does not change the system of school sports competitions. Also remains in the co-financing programme programmes Small Sun, Golden Sun, Drappa and so on. It is true, however, that we want to rationalise the overhead costs associated with the organisation of these programmes, in particular in school sports competitions, where there have been more than twice as many employees in recent years to carry out these competitions, as has been the case in the past. In doing so, it should be noted that in the context of sport between children and young people, we have a specific programme of the branch sports school of national importance. In most cases it is financed by the Ministry by funding programme managers in individual sports sectors, where young athletes are trained, i.e. primary and high school students who enter the path of quality and excellence sport. In these industry sports schools, there are a total of 130 trainers watching over young athletes, future top athletes, and they can work with the resources of the state or the ministry in industry sports associations or in their societies. To this end, the country devotes a total of EUR 1 million per year; in short, according to this rule or strategy, we need to take care of young talent primarily through public funds, because once someone breaks through, sponsors and everything else come along. In addition to this programme, the Health Lifestyle Programme is implemented at 147 primary schools where 146 professional colleagues are employed and 26 000 pupils are included in this programme. We allocate almost €2 million of public funds for this programme. As I said, we also intend to encourage local communities to become more involved in sports projects for children and young people, because we find that some municipalities recognize these programmes as very important, but in some others this understanding of the local community is somewhat less.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u138	Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thanks for the answer. Dear Minister, I know very well what industry sports associations or industry sports schools do — that is, in fact, the extension or the start of selection. That's not what I'm talking about. I would like to draw your attention to what is most massive – this is a system of school sports competitions where we are not talking about selected athletes, but we are talking about the whole population. This is about children who can't do any of the work and didn't do sports, and here they have the opportunity and the opportunity to meet with sport and realize that sport is a healthy way of life. That's what this is about! And here it's important that it doesn't change. However, if it is already changing, as you said because of the number of employees, it must not change with the programmes. I'd be happy if you'd follow that. Of course, certain funds should also be allocated to this. As I am aware, in the previous period, the level of funds decreased by about 50% and now by an additional 20%. I didn't make that up. I have read a letter addressed to both you and other sports organisers in Slovenia. The Healthy Lifestyle issue is welcomed, but these are not the resources of our budget, these are European funds. Of course, it is right that these funds are intended for this, but I would like to point out that in the Healthy Lifestyle in most cases schools from cities participate, because in cities there are a large number of students from the Faculty of Sport and also other unemployed sports workers who can jump in and participate in these programs. But you're not in the country. Why? Because I was a principal myself, and I wasn't, even though I wanted to be a part of this project, I wasn't. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u140	Dr. Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u141	First of all, with regard to this reduction, you have not announced this part of the question, otherwise you could come here with specific numbers. As I know that there has been a reduction by about as much as you say, funding for the Sports Institute – there has been an increase in the number of employees from 2011 to today from one to 12 employees. I think it's more important to invest in sports programs, in industry sports relationships than in those who do it more theoretically. You also said yourself that we have a kind of double system, two systems of sport for young people that could be said to be complementary or competing with each other. One is what's going on in industry sports unions. As you yourself said, there is the first selection of better, very good top athletes. The second is what is happening with regard to sports competitions with school sports competitions. What we find is that these two systems are at least doubling at the national level. A system was created in connection with school sports competitions, which did not serve all the students in primary and secondary school so much, but became increasingly a logistical and organizationally complex competition system, which lost this original importance mainly to impress young people for sport. We've actually created some very advanced organization for organizing sports competitions. This also led to significant investments by the State. In recent years, the Directorate for Sport has warned that the school competition programme could be cheap, since it cannot be built in the style of all possible league competitions, as is already organised by industry sports associations in younger categories. In doing so, it seems to us that it is particularly important to point out that our primary education directorate also identified the dissension of principals because the students attending the competition were missing from school, and their parents demanded that this be taken into account that their children are involved in school sports competitions when it comes to questions and such things. I'm talking about school sports competitions, not what's going on in top-of-the-art sports unions. Thus, the idea of schoolchildren, their mentors, sports teachers participating in school sports competitions is becoming more and more up-to-date and should be exclusively outside school hours and organised by a sector sports association. It is estimated that in this case interest in this "double organised competition sport" would be slightly less quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Kavtičnik?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u143	Yeah, I'll just say it. After Article 246, I would like this answer to be discussed. However, I would like to add, I have too little time, Mr Minister, to explain to you, because I see that you really do not know that there is no connection between matters relating to industry sports, as far as school sports is concerned. There we are talking about selected athletes who compete both in industry sports associations and then compete for individual representatives. And we're talking about a bunch of kids who otherwise don't face any competition, and they're not involved in an additional process of sports education. Two hours or three hours of sports education is essential for the child, for normal physical development, which is why it is still important [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u144	Mr. Kavtičnik, the Minister can't argue [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u145	I don't need to be politicized, I don't want to be polynomized, I want to tell him, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u146	You had a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u147	Can I finish, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u148	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u149	I have plenty of time, and please let me finish. Would you excuse me? I have made a procedural proposal and now explain why this procedural proposal is important. Because children are in the game because we must not play that children will be deprived of it; we must not allow elites to be created in the field of sport as well. Listen, where parents can pay for extra sports programs, children will go; where a child is so gifted that he goes to selection, he will be able to compete and further improve; where children do not have all of this, it is necessary to enable him through what has already been done. We get good, faithful workers, we get sports workers who will then continue this sports work in clubs and societies and those who will then live healthy. This is important, so please do not talk about duplication, there is no duplication here, only those potential top athletes can be doubled, and for those there are not enough if they compete twice to three times a week. So please, don't think like that, and I would therefore ask for a real debate to be held here. Thirty-five years, sir, I have worked in sport and the desire of all of us who have built this system is that it can be preserved, that it can change, of course, where it has to change, but not to break it, it must not be broken, this system must not be broken when it comes to the welfare of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of Wednesday's vote. Mr Janez Vasle has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Greetings, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister! At the request of the interested public, I ask the question: When will Slovenia get a new hunting law that will be European comparable? Indeed, this issue is necessary because the current hunting law is in total conflict with the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. This is said, given that the right to private property and inheritance and human rights is guaranteed in Article 1 of the Protocol. The current hunting law stems from another social system, from the previous social system, which did not recognise private property and is therefore a time after 20 years for this matter to change legally. Today, private property is recognised in the Republic of Slovenia, there are over 400,000 forest plot owners and these owners are deprived of the benefits of hunting or hunting rights. If we look back historically, it is imperative to stress that by 1945, 1946, hunting legislation was as regulated as it was in Austria today. The hunting rights belonged to the owner of the land, the game was no-one's property, the compressed forest plots measured from 115 hectares further formed their own hunting grounds and the smaller areas were pooled and formed hunting sites of between 100 and 300 hectares. However, since the forest is not only a tree or a tree, but also a hunt as regulated in other European countries, it is necessary to amend or adapt European legislation. Hunting brings some income to the owner, a tax-based income country, which is particularly important today. Therefore, any delay and postponement under this legislation is unacceptable and materially detrimental to the owners and the state. Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you for asking. Here you go, Minister. Mr. Vasle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. As you said, this is a question that I think has been raised by representatives of civil society from all the parliamentary groups who have been working for decades as forest owners to implement this system. I have also received them twice, and we have spoken, and also on my part, a promise has been made to start with parliamentary groups, to start with the parliamentary groups of the coalition, to discuss whether the political will to legislate a proposal that would sum up the regime that has been in the territory of our country in the past and is, as you said, also in neighbouring Austria. Just as an interesting thing, on Saturday I was with the mayor of Iron Chapel, who is Slovenian, Mr Franz Joseph Deathnik, and he owns such a three hundred and fifty hectare hunting ground in their forests. As regards the area of hunting in Europe, this has also been explained to this group, there is no single European policy in this area and Europe leaves behind and recommends that individual Member States regulate the area of hunting in accordance with its historical development and tradition. This tradition has two periods in Slovenia, one from another country and the last tradition that has been established in recent years. On the basis of the many debates that have taken place in the Slovenian Parliament over the last 20 years, there is, in the end, such an arrangement as we know it. It is said that hunting is determined in accordance with the Law on Hunting and in such a way that in Slovenia we have hunting families who have concessions for the use of this space, that the game is state property. Let me also add that the Constitutional Court has already ruled at the end of 2006 that the 163rd Article of the Environmental Protection Act, which provides that the wild game is state property, and the 5th Article of the Forest Act, which provides that the forest owner must allow hunting in his forest, and the Constitutional Court has established that these two have not been determined in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so after the conclusion of this constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court, the right to private property is not violated. From here on out, I have to say once again what I told them must be checked for political will. If the political will in the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia is different and will go in the direction of different regulation of this area of hunting and wildlife management, four laws should be amended: the Law on Environmental Protection, the Law on Forests, the Law on Wildlife and Hunting and the Law on Agricultural Lands, while also taking into account and defining the fact that 20-year concessions were granted to hunting families in this context in 2009. I can't say much more than that, I can only say that this coalition, which signed a coalition treaty a year ago, has not entered these amendments into a coalition contract, so we don't have these laws with these amendments in a normative programme. This promise, which I have made to the forest owners, remains to be verified by political will and then assessed how to proceed with this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Minister for Answers. Ms Janja Klasinc is next, with a question for the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrea Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u155	Dear Mr. Secretary! In Slovenia we work much more than elsewhere, across other countries in the European Union. At work, we are more stressed and also more dissatisfied with working conditions in our jobs. We bear the greatest burden in Slovenia of women. This is not surprising, since 41% of women work at work and at home for more than seventy hours a week. This is information that shows that women in Slovenia are doing much more than other women in the countries of the European Union. Of course, I am not referring to all this information, but these are the results of a European study on psychosocial risks in the workplace carried out for Slovenia by a group of researchers at the Faculty of Social Sciences, led by two doctors of science, Dr. Mrčela and Dr. Ignjatović. This study was carried out in 2010, which means that this was at the beginning of the crisis. If these results were to be measured again today, these results would be much worse. It is also concerned that in Slovenia more than a quarter of people are not satisfied with working conditions, where they work, and even 43% of workers and workers suffer from general fatigue. Slovenians and Slovenians, however, are most angry about losing their jobs. This has plagued them since 2010, and today, when companies fail daily and even layoffs follow even in the public sector, this is of course more attractive. The result is stress and stress, as a result of this study, that Slovenians are also more vulnerable to work than workers in other countries of the European Union. What's the result? 63% of women and 59% of men report that they are going to work because they do not lose their jobs before they are afraid of losing their jobs. They call it presentationism. Globally, research is already under way to show that the presentation for performance is even more harmful than abstinence [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] That is why I am interested, Mr. Minister, in all these poor working conditions: [[...]] How you can find solutions in labour market reforms to our workers [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u156	Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u157	Respected! Thank you so much for asking me that question. For many years, the Ministry has been aware of the growing problem of psychosocial risks in jobs, which, of course, is also exacerbated by the crisis. You mentioned two agreements or survey conducted in the framework of the fifth European Labour Relations Research and the results of this survey. There was also a second agreement under which Slovenia also implemented a specific module on psychosocial risks in the workplace. You mentioned a relatively disturbing finding. I would point out, however, that when interpreting these survey results, it is important to take into account that it is self-assessment or that it is subjective to the opinion of the respondents. Therefore, it is not necessarily an objective reflection of the actual situation. Particularly interesting is the data on workplace stress, which is difficult to distinguish from stress in the home environment, as things are very connected. For example, it is very interesting that most Slovenian respondents have indicated that they are under stress or that they are experiencing as much as 40% stress. I hope that the matter in Slovenia is only not as black as the data show. Either way, we have two system laws and the sub-laws we want to deal with. The Law on Safety and Health at Work provides, inter alia, that the employer must adopt measures to prevent, eliminate and manage violence, torture, harassment and other forms of psychosocial risk in the workplace. The rules on the conditions to be met by a professional security worker are also linked because there are huge specificities, many different cases. Of course, it is impossible to take measures that would then also respond taxably to these things, so we create a broader environment, awareness and prevention within the framework of safety and health. However, I must also mention the new Labour Relations Act that you are asking about. This requires the employer to provide such a working environment in which no worker can be subjected to sexual or other harassment or suffering by the employer, assumed or co-workers. The Ministry is also aware that more needs to be done in order to effectively implement legislation in practice and to radically change the behaviour of employers, as well as of employees, so the Ministry will also pay a lot of attention in the future to raising public awareness and promoting the introduction of practical measures that will help to identify risks more quickly and create an effective response to them. In short, it is a range of measures that are already being implemented and still will be, to answer these questions. However, I think that these studies that have been carried out at a time when Slovenia has not yet become so confused in the context of the crisis – that they are different than they are today. Today, I think they are even bigger, and there is also fear of losing a job, and as a result, workers do a lot of things to keep it going. However, I must say that, on the other hand, employers have also been cut off by the crisis and there are many of those who have been the source of this violence against workers, including the past, no longer. They have remained strong, or those for whom I hope that they also respect these measures to a greater extent and that they are aware of the importance of the quality of the business process as a satisfactory worker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your answers, Minister. However, I would not underestimate these collected results. Of course they're individual. But obviously, if we work more in Slovenia than they do elsewhere in Europe – these are real estimates of both employers and employees – it means that there is something very wrong with us, given that we have bad results. It is said that there is something limping about the organization of work, something limping about the management, the promotion of creativity, the reward of good and innovative work, there is also a lot of mobile – we have not talked about it today. I would like to propose and ask you, Mr. Minister: Are you now prepared to encourage the continuation of this research in the ministry and to help researchers financially to see where we are today?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u161	Yeah. I believe that this issue needs to be further addressed, and it needs to be sharpened, particularly in those segments where we can also improve practices or that the impact of these studies will also have practical positive consequences. That is why I accept this initiative of yours, and I believe that we are talking about an extremely important issue and not nearly to underestimate the results of this survey. The results of this survey are worrisome, but there are self-assessments and we know what our problems are sometimes and what objectivity is if we evaluate ourselves. For example, if we ask ourselves if I have experienced stress in the workplace, I think it is not in Slovenia, which I would say is not. The question could also be whether he has ever experienced any stress, such as in the home environment, or in relation to neighbors, or to anyone. In short, when we talk about self-assessment, we have this subjective factor. That's what I wanted to point out. Of course, I respect and respect these findings at the Ministry and therefore we have already taken certain measures and we are still waiting for us, and any further activity in the research sense will also be a step towards this objective.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Any other wishes?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u163	I would gradually propose that because a good worker is only a satisfied worker, because the success of the Slovenian economy depends only on innovation, on ability, on satisfaction, on successful workers, on the basis of these answers, I propose that, for once in the National Assembly, this is said to be the first possible meeting, we should have a broader debate on this area and on your answers to this. This is based on Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u164	That is already true, and perhaps the general debate would be very useful, but we will vote on the Minister's response and whether we will discuss this at the next meeting. The next question is Mrs Tina Komel. He has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! At a letter meeting in early December last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the increase in the basic capital of Cimos, d. d., the automotive industry. The recovery process of the company is now questionable, since the Ministry of Finance is committed to granting a short-term loan instead of granting a so-called subordinate loan of EUR 20 million, which is a condition for banks to participate in the recovery process of the company. "The government is aware of the importance of the company's business and financial restructuring and thus achieves the objective of better conditions for growth and development of the company" and underlines that "Cimos is an important development company which directly and indirectly employs a large number of people and in which there is a lot of technical and development knowledge" was recorded in a press release by the Government of Slovenia. How does the government intend to implement the promised aid for the financial restructuring of Cimos, thus saving one of the biggest exporters in Slovenia, which employs about three thousand workers in the Primorska region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you for asking. It is true that, as you said, we adopted a decision on recapitalisation at the letter meeting. This Decision has one important condition that the State participates in the recapitalisation, if all the other owners are involved, and what was important is that Bank Koper, as one of the rare private owners of this company, has not adopted a decision to take part in this recapitalisation. That is to say, those who would be involved would be existing shareholders in addition to the Republic of Slovenia other parastatal companies, perhaps insurance and similar. Since only the state funds of the company, which were fully under State control, would have paid this recapitalisation without the participation of private recapitalisers, it would have been State aid and would have been unlawful State aid. This proves the case of Elan, who we are facing now, is likely to be the same in the case of Adria, at least in some recapitalisations. This is said to be the case if the state were to pay, regardless of which pocket, but if only state-controlled funds and budgets were to pay, it would be illegal state aid. It is true that at the time we discussed subordinated loans, this was linked to a framework agreement between banks, including some other conditions for the divestment of certain shares or undertakings owned by Cimos, but the problem with subordinated loans was also that, as suggested, it would be a one-year loan. Here we are again running into state aid rules. This allows, in particular, rescue aid as temporary and recovery aid, but is limited to a period not to exceed six months. Therefore, what we now propose and are prepared to do is a six-month loan. This loan can be granted. Together with this, we are trying to achieve that a framework agreement will also arise between banks in order for the company to do what is necessary. However, it is also important, given that this is the only legally permissible form, that there is also a provision in this loan that, if it does not return, it is converted into regular shares. This will allow the State to obtain no return from the money it lends to the company, but it will be able to control what is happening in the company and then actually perform the role that existing owners are obviously unable to perform, this is the financial and business restructuring of this company. As it is said, the State or Government is certainly prepared to help this company for the reasons you yourself have mentioned, but we must do so in accordance with the rules applicable to State aid, because there is no point in giving money now and having to be returned by the company some year or two later, and it will not be about giving money and not knowing what will happen to it, that we do not guarantee that we will ever get it back and so on. That's all this is about, but it's not about the government's unwillingness to help out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Didn't I see, Mrs. Comel, you still want a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you. So, if we take things together for a minute. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of the company's business and financial restructuring. The Government agrees that the Republic of Slovenia shall provide and increase Cimos’ core capital provided that Blue Insurance Company d.d., DSU, Consulting and Management Company, d. o.o., and Triglav Investments, Financial Company, d.d. The government also included EUR 20 million in the so-called mini-rebalancing budget for the possible recapitalisation of Cimos. Triglav Investments has publicly stated that it will not invest fresh capital in Cimos. Koperski Cimos will launch a sales procedure in the coming weeks, which is intended to be decided by owners with a total value of around 80% of the shares and to use recapitalisation to sell their shares to the company. Cimos, one of our biggest exporters in Slovenia, employs about 3,000 workers and the whole group employs about 7,000. Cimos charged around 25 million different taxes to the budget for the year before. Here, too, I fear that this capitalisation will not happen in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I don't think there's any need for further clarification, but that was your opinion, but the Minister answered everything that was necessary first. I'm adjourning this meeting of the National Assembly. We still have until 6:00. I do not think we would have successfully concluded with the next question. At 6 p.m., the Prime Minister of the Government decides on the questions. Until then, the session was suspended. We'll pick it up at 6:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u171	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished representatives of the Government, Minister and Ministers! We continue with the open agenda and move on to a presentation of the questions sent to Prime Minister Janez Janša. The questions will be raised by three colleagues, first of all by Mr Jerko Čehovin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Mr. President of the Government, welcome aboard! You will certainly agree with me that the issue or issues surrounding the intelligence and security services are one of the most sensitive in all countries, of course even in ours. If that were not the case, it would not be your first human resources action, which you have done, to replace the Director of the Owl, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency. However, my question is not focused on this competence of yours, but above all, I must say that in recent times, you are well aware of this, in the public eye the issue of alleged recruitment in Owl, but in particular my question is focused on how you imagine working with the parliamentary committee to control the intelligence and security services, given the fact that we do not get an answer to a number of questions to the Government, whether we get them too late or not. Such a response was also to the question raised in November and to the re-urgent on 20 December when we did not get an answer to these questions. It is clear that in the framework of supervision we also want to have certain controls on human resources matters, not in terms of literal staffing, but to see if we have people working on Owl and elsewhere who are capable of doing this work. Therefore, what we have received recently worries us when, among other things, we received a notice from the Owl Workers ’ Union that the operation of the Owl is partly distorted, which must be of concern to us. Mr President, I would like to ask you, above all, the following. The Public Finance Balance Act, which entered into force 31. 5. In 2012, he restricted employment in the public sector. The Slovenian Security Agency is the independent service of the Government, the agency is headed by a director who is responsible for the work of the Agency to the Government. I'm asking you: How many jobs, based on the ZUJF, have been approved by the Government since 25. 1. 2013 and when? How many new staff have the Agency hired since the appointment of the current Director until the entry into force of the ZUJF? Where such data are of such a nature as to compromise the functioning of the Agency or are secret: Has the Director acted legally in the employment process following the adoption of the ZUJF? When did the government give their consent to the job? Was such employment more than after its entry into force before the entry into force of the ZUJF? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you so much for asking. On 25 January, fewer people were employed in the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency than one year ago. Even in 2012, less money was spent on salaries in this agency than in the previous year and less resources were planned for this year than they were spent last year, when this spending was also lower than it was a year earlier. As far as the number of employees in the Agency is concerned, fewer people are employed in this agency than they were at the beginning of the previous year or at the beginning of the term of office of this government. This agency has specific powers and powers, and over these powers your commission has the power of parliamentary oversight. In many other cases, this is a government service which is obliged to respect general legislation. Even when it comes to employment, job systematisation and so on, the Agency is obliged in this case to comply with general legislation, it is said that the Government confirms systematisation and so on, and all of this took place legally during the time of this government's mandate. Who will be employed in Owl and whose criteria must be met is set out in the systematisation and employment is carried out by procedures that are slightly specific and are essentially the same as in the entire state administration. Of course, it is up to those who are competent there to decide that this cannot be decided by a commission which exercises control over specific powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a request for reply? Please, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I expected that kind of response, it's very short and very, I'm sorry, it's dry. But I'd still like to know more. Inspect: Don't you think it's necessary for both the government and the agency to work with our commission? If we ask some questions that do not relate to the formational positions of employees, even less so, of course, to the network of secret associates, but we want to know whether the employment criteria or political criteria are explicitly used, then I think we can get such answers. Last but not least, to remind you, these services have, by law, important powers that interfere with the Constitution and the laws guaranteed to safeguard fundamental human rights. It is clear that they must also be staffed in such a way as to ensure this. But there's no way the commission wants to get into the workforce. However, if we also want to get an answer from the Government after Zujf, whether the government has given the Owl the consent to hire new co-workers, or either to increase or change, in short everything that is stated in the Owl Act and also in Zujf, then I think it would be right for the Government to get such answers. However, I must say that from Director Sowe, these answers are very sceptical, or we literally run into a wall when we want to ask questions about the competence of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u178	The Commission does not have the authority to decide who will be employed in Owl. The government doesn't have that power either. Never before has the government dealt with names, without regard to Owl, with other jobs in terms of Züif’s exceptions. I have already said that employment has taken place legally in this agency, which means that the Government has taken decisions on how many jobs are systematized and what are the real needs there. These observations, which you have repeated after a letter from the unions or some employees, that they have been employed by political criteria, are indeed worrying because this means that someone in this agency is doing an analysis of the political affiliation of employees. This isn't the government, this isn't the director of this agency, but it's the people who wrote this letter. These are remnants of old thought, the former Udba or the State Security Service, which apparently is still there. This is a problem, and I think the Director has also said publicly that this will have to be cleared up. That's the problem. Surely the commission that employs there does not ask anyone by political affiliation, but someone within the agency under the auspices of the union or the quasi union is doing a political analysis of the employees, which means that the spirit of the old Udba there is still present, probably also in the presence of people who have performed such a job sometimes, and thus Slovenia has not been able to clear up the right time and I think that the Commission should deal with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u179	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u180	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of this Article, in the second part of the reply, Mr President of the Government would suggest that a general debate be held. That's exactly what he said, and we're worried about the committee. We are concerned that this agency has not experienced, I will say, transformations also in terms of expertise, but in particular we must be concerned if there is really what you mentioned in the end that someone is doing a political analysis of existing personnel. In fact, this justifies my six-year effort when I say that we have a problem in this country with the so-called counterintelligence service or anti-intelligence service. And I have already adopted legislation, and unfortunately I have not been heard, I have proposed that this matter be settled, perhaps even in the law on the organisation of the police, but it is not in the latest version. This is clearly a problem, for this indicates that Owl is being used for what you said, former tasks from the single-mart system, that it also does internal political activity, if necessary, which is not in accordance with the law. But this is precisely because of this determination, because we do not have a regulated anti-intelligence activity in this country. I think that this is not only for your government, but also for all other future governments, a serious security issue, so I think I need to make this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government at the next meeting will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the votes. Mr Janko Weber will put the next question to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The Prime Minister of the Government, when you formed the government before a bad year ago, on 10 February 2012, you announced that this is actually an anti-crisis government and a team that will drive Slovenia out of the crisis. In particular, you mentioned that the new elections and appointments of the new government have led to an end to the political crisis in Slovenia. If we look at the situation today, we can see that Slovenia is facing one of the biggest political, economic, financial crises – and also in the moral crisis, from which we have our own country. This time, however, not because of the global economic and financial crisis, but because of the actions of the Prime Minister, who cannot explain the origin of the cash and the ability to pay for the purchase of a car, real estate, and also because of the wrong decisions of the Government by introducing disproportionate austerity measures, and also because of the immeasurable desire to privatise or sell state property in companies, insurance companies, banks, in short, all that is state-owned. You were significantly less interested during this period in what people are reporting on protests that demand a fair and legal society, what they require in sentences when a multi-thousand-headed crowd advertises and requires a uniform shift in the burden borne by sharp and disproportionate austerity measures. As a rule, you're not in the government palace and you're withdrawing with the government outside the capital on the ground. We have significantly fewer answers to what will happen to decaying companies, especially construction companies, where there has always been an answer that this is a matter of owners, not a country. The pressures of workers and workers who have fallen deeper and deeper into severe social hardships have somehow not been of interest to you in this period, as have the above mentioned measures. Students also run out of scholarships. There is also growing uncertainty in the international field. Indeed, Prime Minister, I think in Slovenia we deserve a legitimate government and a credible Prime Minister who is trustworthy. That's why I'm asking you: In the current circumstances, how will your lost credibility as the most responsible solve the emerging political and in-depth economic crisis and lead us to a successful state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you for asking. As for the promise that the government I run will do everything possible to bring Slovenia out of the crisis, that is true. This is what we promised at the beginning of the mandate, and in the first quarter we have done a lot for it. The fact that I now promise that the performance of this government will prevent, at any time for the future, a political crisis in Slovenia, which I do not remember or make. So don't spread these things. As for the lost credibility, respected Mr Weber, let's say that our coalition would set up a commission at the beginning of the mandate, in which, say, Minister Gorenak's Secretary of State, the journalist of the Double News, and the wife of a local tycoon from Maribor, and this commission would check your assets. Would that seem credible to you? Would it not have triggered a loud noise when such a commission was appointed in order to establish a para-institution dealing with political opponents? That's exactly what they'd hear from you. So it's not that easy to pronounce you. comparisons. I explained everything to this committee. It is true, however, that there were not enough explanations for Mr Klemenčič and for Mr Praprotenik. Mr. Pratort wrote lies about me for 15 years. Whatever I explained to him when he was a journalist, it wasn't enough. And then he went on with his work. An appeal has been lodged and we will see how this will end in legal terms. As for solving this situation, I made it very clear on Wednesday. Here are two productive routes. One is that heroes, who know everything and know everything and have a majority now in the National Assembly, at least so you say, invest in a constructive confidence, form a new government, a government of clean hands, as we have heard, take responsibility for this situation and continue the work that we have done a great deal in last year. The second option is that given that half, I will say that these heroic selections require early elections, let's agree that they are early elections. But until then, let's do some things that won't wait. We have heard from one of the parliamentary parties that five matters must be made, including finalising negotiations for the next multi-annual financial perspective of the European Union. You must hurry because these final negotiations will take place on 7 February. However, I think we are all aware that early elections can produce a very similar result in terms of stability or instability, as has been the case so far. Without changing the electoral system before the new elections, we are simply exposing this country to a new risk, without need. Here are a number of initiatives about serious discussions about what to do and what key strategic decisions to make in the meantime. On the inside, it is certainly necessary to agree on a different electoral system, where people will on the one hand have more or an absolute choice of Members, not just a list, but also an impact on the fact that, if anything breaks during the term, there will be alternative elections in their district. There are different opinions here, but even if we do not take the whole step forward, already some significant improvements in the electoral system can move Slovenia away from this risk, that we will repeat the early elections every year and that the country will go back in doing so. These two productive options are available. As far as our responsibility is concerned, this is precisely as far as we have an impact on this situation, and as far as the majority of our responsibilities are concerned, it goes to those who can make up the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u185	Request for complete response. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Of course, it is possible to dispute what the Commission's decision to prevent corruption is, but I think that we must all be aware that this decision is final and is a fact, so I can also state what is written down. With regard to the measures that really need to be implemented in Slovenia, however, it is difficult for me to agree with you that the electoral system must now be changed as a matter of priority. The fact is that the decline in economic growth is significant, we record a 3% decline in economic growth, gross domestic product is lower than €400 million, more than €2 billion is more credit than in previous mandates, and 12% are less jobs than in 2011. This is a situation that the Social Democrats are really worried about at this time. We believe that the electoral system is something we can talk about, but priority must be given to solving the economic problem and providing jobs. And there are no such measures. As we monitor efforts to create the Slovenian State Holding, it is increasingly clear that this holding does not bring economic stability to Slovenia. Many companies, or if you want the largest companies in Slovenia, point out that they are afraid of untransparent privatisations and hostile acquisitions. This is an environment where it is very difficult to talk about the need to change the political system. Government policy needs to be changed. And here is also a series of important measures that are linked to the confidentiality, and we think, the President, that the confidant is the one who can solve the problem very quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. President of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u188	Your Honor, if I am not mistaken, you have received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors, which is an extremely rare case for municipalities with the left mayors or municipalities with mayors of the left province, and you have not resigned anything. And it was final. As far as the confidant's concerned. Your government, Mr Weber, has proposed a vote on the confidentiality at the end of September 2011. It took four months and 10 days for Slovenia to win a new government. If you think that at this point Slovenia can afford 4 months and a half of empty running, then all of these indicators you have talked about will be even more black. The Slovenian Constitution is very clear on the way out of the situation, when someone thinks that a government is not doing well, collects 10 signatures, proposes a constructive non-trust and a new government you can have within two weeks. There's no time in between. Everything else is toying with the fate of the country. I know what's behind these calls. It will not be necessary to wait for a year, perhaps six months and the results of this deadlock, these blockades and these stops will be on hand and will be clear to those who may still be on the surface today. And if this government resigns now, in six months, when these accounts come in, one day the government that has resigned will be responsible for instability. It follows from the Slovenian Constitutional Order that in situations where someone thinks that there is no support in the National Assembly, the government is replaced with a constructive non-trust. You have 10 signatures, file them, and, as Comrade Visjak said, let's see these heroes. Otherwise, calling on others to do what they should do is full of it in this country. Everyone would want something from someone else, but they wouldn't do anything. However, in view of the summation, it is perfectly clear how much responsibility there is on whom. As for the change in the system, we are not proposing a change in the political system, we are simply proposing a change in the electoral system. And this proposal is in line with the majority of the people's will in the referendum. Ask anyone if this change is necessary and you will get a firm answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thanks again for saying that. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that we hold an interview in the National Assembly on the response of the President of the Government primarily for the reason that I truly believe that we should come to Parliament for a confidant. It is true that, after this debate in the National Assembly, decisions cannot be taken, but it is possible, in fact, by all the political parties who are in Parliament, to gain a position on your decision whether or not you will come to Parliament for a confidant. The non-trustster you are trying to plead with is problematic because, like you, who are the president of the party's largest ruling parliaments, the Commission's report to prevent corruption also burdens the president of the biggest opposition party. All the other parties have a substantial lack of votes so that they can come up with new solutions. However, if confidence is expressed to the President of the Government, solutions may be lost within the same coalition. We are not talking about the need to stop development, we are talking about the need to appoint a President who will be credible, who will have the confidence of people. This trust of people has fallen in Slovenia, you will probably agree with me that it is significantly lower than when you yourself called on the previous government to go to early elections because people's trust has fallen to 25%. Today, according to data, this percentage is about 14%. So it's not just that the crisis is caused by the global situation, by the poor functioning of the economy, or by people refusing to work. It is about having a credible Prime Minister in Slovenia who will be able to talk to anyone and at any time and will not be burdened by the events we are meeting in Slovenia today. This would significantly relieve both political space and give a clear signal to the economy, as well as to the international public, so that we can solve our problems quickly in Slovenia. Surely, one of the fastest solutions is just a confidant in Parliament. It is our constitution that knows and it is right to take this opportunity, because I am sure that this is the most act of state at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We turn to the third question to the Prime Minister Janez Janša, who will be asked by Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Mr. President of the Government! It is a well-known fact that we have huge problems in our country with state-owned companies and their operations. Apart from honorable exceptions, most people do not do well or lose, despite the fact that the managers they run are extremely well paid, I would say that even too well, given the results they achieve by running these companies. Especially if we compare their salaries with the salaries of the three highest representatives of our country's authorities, the Presidents of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament. One can't believe that these leading people of our country, at least in my opinion, are paid extremely little to avoid using any other expression, given the responsibility they have with running the country. According to the data – I believe that as accurate as they are – which I have recently seen in our daily newspaper, because I have not been able to obtain the official data, especially the high salaries of directors and even their advisers in the electricity industry, where their salaries literally fly to the sky, despite the severe economic crisis that has been reigning in Slovenia for some time. According to available data, these salaries move around EUR 9,000 gross in directors and even around EUR 10 000 gross in professional colleagues [[These data are for HSE and TES]] . Maybe the wages in other state-owned companies are even higher, but I haven't been able to get through them. However, publicly available data on the salaries of directors of public institutions are available. Among the 25 highest wages in the public sector are more than half of health directors, moving somewhere between 7 000 000 and 7 000 500 euros gross. Only in 9th place is the President of the Constitutional Court with EUR 6 000 300 gross, while the first 8 highest salaries are paid by the directors of health homes or hospitals. We have more than money problems in health care all the time. A large financial deficit is also forecast for this year, while these directors have such high salaries. This fact, in my view, is unacceptable. In this area, the State should finally regulate the real wage relations. In my opinion, the salaries of directors or managers should consist of two parts: fixed, for example 70% or 80%, and variable, 20 or 30%, respectively. Only a variable part would encourage directors to work better and strive for positive results and profits, otherwise they would not receive that stimulating part of the salary. My specific question is: Dear Mr President of the Government, what exactly do you intend to do in the area of wage anomalies and when? In my humble opinion, action should be taken immediately. My additional question is: Is it true that, at the end of December, employees received Christmas in the New Ljubljana Bank despite the more catastrophic situation in the bank? If this is true, then I believe that this is unacceptable and unfair to all those employees in other companies that operate positively, but the management in these companies did not hope to pay the Christmas paid to employees because of the well-known [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u194	Given that Mr Weber had previously used the rules of procedure and asked a new question, there were only two answers. I'll do the same. Firstly, the time difference between a confidential and a constructive non-trust is two weeks to four months, and this is perfectly clear. As far as my credibility is concerned, I have no problem talking to anyone else, the rules of procedure apply to all the same. As regards this question regarding the Christmas tree in Nova Ljubljanska Banka or the last part of the question. According to the Ministry, which verified this, the Christmas house was not paid at Nova Ljubljanska Bank. With regard to the solution to the problem you discussed, I think it is close to what you yourself have proposed. In the economy in general, in the regulated part of the economy, it is said in public works or in companies owned by a majority of the state, the law adopted during the previous term of office is in force. There are limited and so on and this regulation is not good in my opinion. The solution is that most of the salaries of the leaders in these companies should be variable, but it would depend on the success of these companies, except where they are monopolies or public institutions, such as Radiotelevision Ljubljana, where some individuals receive three presidential salaries per month, all covered by electricity payers. Otherwise, in the economy, this should depend on success. And today you have cases in these companies where there are losses and wages are high. And you have companies where the results are good or relatively good. If someone's rehabilitating a company, of course, they can't have any results right now. However, he must be very capable of leading the company to this situation in order to reach them. There, however, wages are low and are criminal and do not motivate those who need to get the company over the water. I hope that the structures of the Slovenian public holding company will be brought back to life as soon as possible, that internal rules will be adopted then also on this award and that this will go in the direction of the greater role of this variable wage, so that it will depend on results and on success and not least on the average salary of employees in those companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. With this we have exhausted a package of three questions to the Prime Minister of the Government, I thank the President of the Government for the answers and we are moving on to the questions sent by the Minister or ministers. Mr Aloji Potočnik, who has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, at the end of 2011, the former Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the proposal for a tax code and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. For well-known political reasons, which are somewhat similar to today's, the proposal for a law in the workplace has not started. However, a public hearing of the draft proposal was previously carried out. The professional public, as well as various associations of business entities, supported a technical solution that allows automatic connection of the tax office to the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law also went in this direction with some urgent and meaningful changes. There's no ignoring that they were different. A well-known economist then wrote that he had, that was the previous government, an incredible talent for nonsense. The government, in which you are a minister, has recognised the problems of registering traffic, especially in cash transactions, and has made some moves by amending the tax procedure law. However, the proposal for a tax law remained cold. Given that tax evasion and weak tax returns are a serious public finance problem, I ask: Did the Ministry of Finance or the Government remove from the list of suitable instruments that act against the loss of tax revenue both direct and indirect? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u197	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you for your question. From where I come from, he has me to say that we've frozen this solution. But no matter what, I will answer why we did not do so or why we did not continue with a project that was prepared in the previous term only to some extent. One thing to know is that different countries have or do not have tax registers. This is not some general practice that would be a standard. In all such matters, it is a matter of comparing costs and benefits. And the costs here would not be so smallly hung on the taxpayers about, I don't know, there was a talk about 500 euros in cash and so on. Of course, you can solve one problem with the tax box, not all problems. The problem that you can solve is the problem of later processing of records because it is a direct transfer to or direct recording of tax administrations. We are the same goal as you said we tried to do differently in the Tax Procedure Act, that is to say by prescribing and controlling information systems. Another objective, another problem that is just as big, is that the accounts are not issued at all, or that they are issued otherwise or that accounts are issued via another cash register, which is then hidden and which is not a tax office. This is not to be prevented, or then all those procedures that are already under way, that inspectors go to the field, control, take accounts, then see whether these accounts are in the tax records or not. This is what we are doing, and our assessment was that we will not be able to prevent all this from happening, that this may be only appropriate for a few activities, perhaps in the guest house, and perhaps more, and that this is a big project that we did not undertake at the beginning of the mandate. The additional thing that convinced me that I had left the matter alone was that when I saw the state of Durs' information system, which they had been introducing for two years or three years, the situation was catastrophic and to a large extent widespread, I was terrified when I thought about what would have happened if these same people had similarly introduced the information system for the tax box. So I think that here, as far as I'm concerned, I don't care as long as you know, we don't introduce these tax receipts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jože Velinja to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of Parliament and civil society have often received complaints about smokers' services providers. Various media have also repeatedly pointed to this problem. Although the issue of the regulation of chimney services began to be systematically regulated by the State in 1993. At that time, the Company Act imposed on local communities to regulate this service in accordance with public law. Not one third of the congregations in those days had regulated public economic services until 2004. As a result, the State had to re-increased the regulation of chimney services by transferring concessions to the state level. Even if we reject complaints about concession procedures, the key problem from the past remains. Public service should be offered to users under the same conditions for the same assessment. The change in prices of services in 2009 has only worsened the situation in this area. In order to pursue the objectives of the chimney public service, this is health protection, fire protection, environmental protection and efficient use of energy, and it is necessary to produce and establish at least an appropriate national register of facilities, concessionaires, authorised persons and inspections. In the previous mandate, the National Assembly proposed to the Ministry that it also strengthen the professional supervision of concessionaires and, in view of the results of the controls, initiate the procedure for the withdrawal of the concession. As we are all aware of the importance of proper maintenance of combustion plants and their potential risks to humans, I believe that the area of chimneys also needs to be regulated in the common interest. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How is the control of the operators of chimney services carried out, whether any extraordinary inspection has been carried out or is it planned in the future? What are the findings of possible controls carried out? How many concession withdrawal procedures are currently taking place at your Ministry and has any such procedure been completed by the withdrawal of the concession?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Minister Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much. As you described in the introduction the situation in this area and then concluded with a question, I will answer you in an exact manner. However, let me add to this introductory thinking that, at last, it is only now a signed contract for the description of the combustion plants and thus a good basis for regulating the situation forward, which gives us, in line with the time plan, that we will have an accurate list of all these combustion plants at the end of the summer, and also an appropriate basis for the operators and all that follows, at the same time also at the same time a regulation on standards for inspections, price lists, technical characteristics of combustion plants and similar things, so that we can expect the adoption of a new regulation in this area, because in the years 2014 to 2016 it is also a period of time when these concessions, which have been shared in various periods, are also expired and are good conditions for a new regulation of these procedures in accordance with the adopted guidelines that will be adopted. Our work is guided by the conclusions of the Committee, which has already addressed this issue in this mandate. On your exact question, allow me to read the answer prepared by the co-workers: The Environment and Nature Inspectorate between 2009 and 2011, on the basis of the applications received, dealt with four cases where operators managed chimney services without a licence, six cases where the concessionaires performed a chimney service outside an area for which they had a concession contract for the implementation of chimney services, and two cases where the concessionaires carried out a chimney sweeping service with non-employees. Twenty-four criminal authorities have also been introduced in accordance with Article 140c of the Smoker Service Regulation and the jury to 11 smoker service providers. Between 2009 and 2011, an inspection was sent to the Ministry, which is responsible for the professional supervision of the work of chimney operators, of 23 applications relating to daily infringements by operators of the chimney service. The professional supervision of concessionaires or their employees in order to determine the skills of workers shall be carried out very intensively. In the second half of 2012, over 100 chimney areas were inspected. All those where we have identified any irregularities, we have called for an end to the deficiencies within the deadline and have given them a written warning, which already constitutes the start of a unilateral withdrawal procedure from the concession contract. We note that concessionaires respond very quickly and provide relevant information about their employees, but unfortunately in three cases we have found that irregularities have not been resolved, so we continue the procedure.The Ministry did not stop checking in the other chimney areas this year, and it has already sent new calls to the concessionaires for the delivery of documentation and notices in the first week. Examinations of the professionality and regularity of the provision of services by the concessionaire in accordance with the rules governing public economic services shall always be carried out by the concessionaire, the State concerned and the inspection authorities shall monitor the overall implementation of the rules of obligations and prohibitions laid down in the regulation. Thus, in the case of smoker services, the environmental inspection controls the emissions of substances into the air and their possible excesses, and the control of the fire safety reduction and the fire protection inspector, and the inspection of human health risks due to poisoning and suffocation with smoke gases, the health inspector. The only one directly oversees the work of concessionaires in one segment is the market inspectorate, whether the concessionaires account for chimney services on the basis of a government decision and a price list of chimney services. An exceptional inspection under the regulations governing the chimney service is not a review that would serve to control the work of the concessionaire, but a review ordered by an inspection to verify that the combustion plant and its associated smoke-proof, ventilation and auxiliary facilities operate in accordance with the rules and establish the documentation on the basis of which the device or building in which the combustion plant was issued has been authorised. At the moment, there are also three procedures for the withdrawal of the concession, but none of these procedures have been completed. These are procedures that were launched in the second half of last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Will you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go, Mr. Josie the Great.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you. At the fifth regular meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment in May 2012, the subject of chimney services was re-examined. As you mentioned, three conclusions were adopted. The Ministry was once again called upon to produce as soon as possible a state record of the combustion plants and services of the chimney service. An examination of the possibility of partial release of individual chimney service services was proposed. The development of new rules on the concession act was foreseen by September 2013. In order to prepare supply standards for the chimney service and to change the pricelist for chimney services, the deadline was set at the end of October 2012. It is these two documents that would regulate at least the most urgent anomalies in the field of the provision of chimney services and prove the pursuit of the basic objective: to provide public service to consumers under the same conditions at the same price. Since the deadline for implementation has already passed, I am interested in the timetable for adopting this regulation and adopting the change in the price list of chimney services and the reasons for the delay. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u206	I've already answered the first two questions. As far as this record is concerned, the call was similar to that of a few public procurement complications, such as any other one, and the contract is concluded, and funds are provided in the budget as well, and this register of smoke appliances will be completed by the end of August in early September. This normative part of the new rules has not yet been completed. As we said, the regulation itself, at the meeting of the National Assembly's home committee, the debate was already held to prepare changes to the system in parallel with the production of records and also with the beginning of the expiry of individual concession contracts which are beginning to expire in 2014. Therefore, what I said earlier is that we expect this year, based also on this document, this regulation, which will regulate the area of combustion plants, pricing and similar things, this new regime will be done. The pricelist himself, I must say that I myself was present at one or two meetings, where the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce were probably justifiably challenged by the price list, which was unilaterally amended by the State in 2009. However, we have not yet decided to change this price list to the Government, and I am counting on this discussion to be concluded next month between our experts and between the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, which represent chimneys, so that this problem will be resolved. On the one hand, the operators of these services are warned that the price list is too low and that it does not provide sufficient standards. As you know, in the media as well as other articles published, on the other hand, there is a completely different view of the users of these services and of civil initiatives, which are also very active.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Defence, Mr Aleš Hojs, will be raised by Dr Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! I would like to ask the Honourable Minister of Defence a question that connects all governments from 2000 onwards, namely the problem of the Falcon government plane. After the Civil Aviation Agency failed to sell falcon last year and also failed to rent it, you got the plane back to management at the Ministry of Defence. Dear Minister, you announced in mid-November last year that the aircraft should be re-registered as a military vessel, which could be managed by the Slovenian Armed Forces, then that you would send two crews to train to ride this vessel and then, with appropriate crews, you would also offer it to NATO's programme of Atares, where it would be intended to transport important personalities, and it would also be used for national purposes to transport representatives of the highest political elite. In view of the fact that the plane was to be transferred to the Ministry of Defence from 1. 1. 2013 I ask you: Is the re-registration of the falcon plane already done? Have military personnel been sent to adequate training to manage the Falcon? How did you choose the appropriate pilots for this project? How much does it cost to go to school? Are you still in the estimated 200,000 euros for this training? How are the plans for redesigning the interior of the aircraft being carried out, as mentioned? From what means will all these costs be covered? Has the Government provided special funds for this purpose, for example with the General Secretariat of the Government, or will it have to provide the Ministry of Defence with the budget? Just as this government aircraft was purchased at the expense of the modernisation of the Slovenian Army just over ten years ago, it seems today that its transformation into something more useful than it has been so far will take place again at the expense of the Slovenian Army. Last week, we, the Minister, discussed an important document on the Defence Committee, a defence strategy that stated that the Slovenian Armed Forces would have to give up all possible capabilities other than the key defence capabilities of the Republic of Slovenia. And in this regard, I'm curious: How do you see the contribution of Falcone to the key defence capabilities of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Dr. Jelušič, for the question. Let me start at the back. The aircraft was indeed purchased from TRPs intended for the Slovenian Army in 2000, if I am not mistaken. The fact is that the aircraft came back to the Ministry of Defence in 2009 under those leases that the state of Slovenia had with US privates, as I recall. During all this period, from purchase to the day we handed over the aircraft, after we got it back in 2009, or handed it over to the Civil Aviation Agency in 2012, it was the cost of the Ministry of Defence. Also in the previous mandate, between 2009 and 2012, these costs amounted to around EUR 600,000 during this three-year period, or if I sum up after 2009 EUR 276,000, EUR 515 thousand, EUR 2011 472 thousand and EUR 346,000 in last year. With explicit emphasis, I think it's right to say that the plane did not fly during all this period. These were the costs when the aircraft was wintered, when the aircraft was not used for any purpose, was not broadcast, nor was the NATO connection offered, and for its flight the pilots who worked under the contracts, that is, former Adria pilots and the like, who had copyright contracts or contracts to do so. The very idea of getting the plane back on track or into the air is, frankly, a proposal from the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian Army has proposed that this aircraft could be reasonably offered to ATARES, a programme where, at the NATO level, either bilaterally or as part of the programmes, this aircraft can be rented by VIP guests and by others who wish to drive this aircraft. This idea was actually created during the period when the Agency for Civil Aviation, despite the promises it made in 2012, when we transferred the aircraft to the Agency for Civil Aviation, failed not to deliver the aircraft, not to sell it, nor to provide the relevant VIP transports not only for domestic customers, but also for foreign guests. Then, of course, this also concerns the question, we immediately started selecting the pilots who were sent to school. It's hard for me to tell you about the choice, because the choice was made by the army itself. The army has decided which pilots are going to school. As I know, these are the pilots who are younger in the Slovenian Army, i.e. those who have several years to serve in the Slovenian Army who are already pilots on a turbo-flight, i.e. the aircraft that the Slovenian Army has, and the pilot who has been trained to do so in the Agency for Civil Aviation. Your assessment that the cost of these trainings is about 200 000 euros, holds or is somewhat less, I think the exact cost is about 170 000 euros plus a fee, there are some 200 000 euros, all pilots are sent to school and the plane is not yet in the register of the Slovenian Army. We took over the plane two days ago when it came from a regular annual renovation in Switzerland. That's where this plane is kept every year. I am counting on you to put it in the register of military vessels within a good month and thus somehow reduce the EUR 4 000 500 monthly cost, which we are paying for the airworthiness of this aircraft, which is about EUR 45 000 per annum. Of course, at this point, as I have already announced at the time of the transfer, I cannot give any assurance that the planned hours we are planning in the programme will be realized. But only by offering, only by testing the market, when we have an actual aircraft, a trained crew, can we actually put this plane on the market. I am counting on the aircraft, including the crew, trained by the end of May, not later than the beginning of June, to put the aircraft into this programme, but even then, again today, to make it clear that the aircraft is being continuously marketed if we receive any demand, supply or anything like that, this aircraft is, of course, available for that price, which has been judged to be below that price. As far as what you asked and related to the plane's remodeling is concerned, I must say that this arrangement is not planned, and the military asked how much KIT costs, it is said, a performance that could replace VIP seats with 16 or 18 seats on this plane. There's not an offer for that one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u211	Request for complete response. Dr. Baby Jelusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you very much for all the explanations, Minister. But you still haven't answered that key problem, so please give your opinion: How do you think a Falcon aircraft can contribute to the key defence capabilities of this country if, at the same time, we are talking about the end of the life cycle of the Roland Air Force? At the same time, we're talking about the landing of school planes. It is also clear that pilots who have been trained so far for school aircraft, as well as for some other important forms of flight in the Slovenian Army, will now be involved in the country's protocol activities and so on. I want to know: How can we from the Institute of Combat Insurance of this country, what the Slovenian Army is, make an institution for protocol activities? And this Falcon is actually pushing her into this situation. I'd like to add to what you've said about paying the costs so far. For Falcone, our country was getting some rent. This rent was on the special item of the Ministry of Defence, from which all the costs incurred with it were also paid for a long time. Later, it was also necessary to visit other funds of the Ministry of Defence. At the end of the day, Minister, I can see why this plane could not be sold or leased. Lobbyists who tried to make it into a plane in the hands of the Slovenian Army were silent, and now it is clear who they were and whose interest it was.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u214	I have to say that I have not spoken to any lobbyist in this decision, I have only spoken to the Chief of Staff and no one else. As far as the amounts in the account are concerned, I must say that there were no rent amounts in 2009-2011. All these costs in these years have been paid on the basis of the defence budget. If it wasn't for a stranger, or if it wasn't for that, I'd say something we remembered, and neither did you, dear Dr. Jelusichev, of course. Someone else bought this plane as one of the, I'd say, carrier capacities of the Slovenian Army in 1999. If you remember, I was then in the media listening to how this is a plane that will transport wounded, which is necessary to be bought by the Slovenian Army, which is essential for the Slovenian Army to have it. I can't take any responsibility for this here, and neither can you, probably not, but someone else who was then, if I'm not mistaken, the President of the Slovenian Government. At least in part an apology or in defence of what we are doing or what we would like to do, I would like to say, however, that the practice of so-called VIP transports, not only for the President of the Government now, but also for the entire regiment of other officials or, I would say, the supreme people who run the country, in foreign countries, is not so unusual. It has to be said that a German chancellor rides a military plane, that an American president, that an Italian president, and a number of other countries, could count on you where, in fact, these military pilots with military aircraft, despite driving state representatives, are not considered non-military or something that this army does not need. It's true, we can discuss this, in a way, I would say that you're right, I find it difficult to defend the military involvement of this plane, because there is no military involvement of this plane. And frankly, it's hard to argue that this plane is going to drive wounded, so let's get some clean wine in here. But I can certainly defend that, and I will always defend that I think the most important thing is that the plane is on the ground, that the plane is on the ground. Two hundred thousand euros for the aircraft to be serviced, for the aircraft to be sailed, for no one to fly with it, for the cost itself, is, in my opinion, inappropriate. And once again, if a buyer is found for this plane, we will be happy to sell this plane for that estimated court value, but unfortunately it hasn't been found in all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The following question is raised by Mr Mitja Meršol, Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Happy Zerjav, but he's gone. Will you ask a question and get an answer within thirty days or do you want an oral answer at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice welcome to ministers and parliaments in the 15% cast! I will request a written answer from the Minister. "If it were not for these complicated bureaucratic rules, I would have decided long ago on a project to draw on European cohesion funds." This is a phrase that we hear very often from various parts of Slovenia, as well as from central, Ljubljana work when it comes to drawing on cohesion funds. And today, with a very concrete project case, my colleague, Alenka Bratušek, has already pointed out this issue. That is also my question to Minister Žerjav. The European Commission has proposed a legislative package for cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, aimed primarily at promoting growth and jobs in Europe. The Europe 2020 strategy also includes some measures that will simplify bureaucratic requirements and rules in calls for proposals. With these measures, the European Commission wants to reduce costs and attract more participants, in particular SMEs, research, innovative companies. The European Commission will therefore simplify the procedures for participating in research projects financed by the European Union. And the general objective of the European Commission is to make cooperation transparent and attractive for the best researchers and innovative companies in Europe. Yes, the aim is to allow for as much simplification as possible while maintaining control, for example by extending the use of so-called average cost methodologies, which do not need to be fully aware of all small expenditure items in the project. For the European Union's Europe 2020 strategy and also for Slovenia, therefore, it is crucial to ensure that good projects are implemented for economic recovery and thus for new jobs to be replaced by what has been lost as a result of the crisis. Therefore, I ask Minister Žerev to reply in writing: In view of your optimistic financial plan for drawing up European Union funds in the coming years, have you prepared measures – and if, in order to simplify our rules related to European Union projects in Slovenia, what rules, which often make it difficult to apply for tenders and then, due to the scale of the final reports, make it impossible to draw up funds more quickly? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Well-welcome, distinguished presidents, distinguished ladies ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister Zvone Blackach! I am asking the question on the subject of the publication of the list of calls for proposals, which will allow the use of European funds for 2013. Mr Minister, last year you adopted the 2013 and 2014 budget, where you wrote down that certain larger and smaller infrastructure projects will also be financed by the European Union, as also stated in the Development Programme Plan. In the last few years, Slovenia has almost destroyed all the advantages it has because of its geographical position due to the slow preparation of projects or possible non-compliance, as well as the hesitation and lack of vision, sometimes political will. The loss of time in itself would not be such a problem if we did not lose the European Union's co-financing in the financial perspective 2007-2013, and all of this could hamper us in terms of the financial perspective 2014-2020. Given the extremely poor situation of the construction sector or the entire Slovenian economy, calls for the implementation of the planned projects should be made immediately. That's why I want to know: When will the professional interested public be informed of the list of all calls for proposals in 2013 in the areas of economically important infrastructure in the field of roads, railways and energy sources? In this regard, it is also right to commend you for the efforts being made at the competent ministry in order to accelerate the preparation of certain projects. Thus, the third development axis project, the southern part, adopted on 19 December already the first state spatial plan in the government, which is why this is also my question in the context of such projects, which could help to re-establish and start the operation of construction companies and ultimately reduce unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Minister Zvonko Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you very much for that question. Nice greetings to all present! You will recall that in the middle of the previous year, the National Assembly discussed a report that discussed where we are in the area of using the funds of this financial perspective 2007-2013. It was given a certain section of the condition. The report stated that, following the level of project preparedness and absorption capacity, the most substantiated area of railway infrastructure modernisation is. Then, some other areas followed, and also from this assessment, that in 2013, it is said in 2013 that there will be an extremely difficult year to complete at the contractual level of all that is available in the perspective 2007-2013 and by the end of 2015, unless the European Commission adopts different rules as we now know N+2, it will also be impossible to make all these investments, which will not be possible, because it is a larger investment that takes place for several years, three, four or more in normal conditions, in this particular case it will be necessary to speed up and everything that would otherwise be done over a three- or four-year period of time will be done within two and a half years. At the 2012 Ministry, the same was true for the government, there was not only a year of stabilising and framing the financial framework, given what we have at our disposal, but also a year of preparation for faster activities in this area this year. For information, in 2012, we have spent more than twice as much resources at the Ministry as in 2011, and for 2013 it is planned that we will draw six times as much resources as in 2011. However, the total volume of investment resources is in infrastructure work only within the Ministry over EUR 400 million. Calls are made on a permanent basis. One part is published publicly on the public procurement portal and the other part on the Ministry's website, where energy tenders are intended for many beneficiaries, local communities, individual companies, individuals and so on. These calls are currently valid for €443 million, which is the current framework for transport and energy infrastructure projects across the Ministry's level, and in 2013 we are planning an additional €416 million in public transport and energy infrastructure. It's a number of different projects. Some of the most important developments are in the area of modernisation of railway infrastructure. It's five major projects. Modernisation and electrification of the Prague–Hodoš railway line, out-of-way crossings, modernisation of the Divač–Koper line, implementation of the first phase of the new Divača–Koper railway, in the field of transport infrastructure, numerous railways, modernisation, improvements in the maritime field, improvement of the operating conditions of the port of Koper, by allowing for the landing of ships with a greater downturn and by establishing pre-preparations for the expansion of the first pier, in the area of the infrastructure airport we signed a contract a few days ago for the implementation of the new passenger terminal at Jožet Pučnik airport in Ljubljana and, in conclusion, is co-financed by European funds, a new airport building at Maribor airport and many other projects from this area. In the field of energy infrastructure, this call is certainly very important, on which evaluation is concluded in these days for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by municipalities or local communities, where this quota of 52 million euro will in our opinion be used effectively and will be saved mainly by a large number of primary schools and kindergartens through this sum of energy. According to our assessment, 80% to 90% of this call will be for this work. With appropriate redeployments in these last days, we have managed to provide an additional €55 million, which will be announced at the end of this week or in the following week, dedicated to the energy rehabilitation of primary schools, kindergartens and health homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u221	Are you asking me to complete the answer? Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you very much. As you have already presented, I have also looked at what the statistics were like in 2012, when the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space launched 46 public publications, of which there were 8 investment construction projects, the other being studies and research or preparation of PGDs for future investments and other related content with the Ministry, which must also be published under the Public Procurement Act. The projects that were published were unannounced, for example, the Ministry of the Economy – so I also asked you some of these questions – already published at the beginning of the current year with a known date of publication, so it was a slightly different procedure. At present, drawing on European funds, as you said, is the lowest for financing transport and environmental infrastructure. In some cases, two years of delays are also due mainly to the bankruptcy of selected operators, problems in obtaining land and building permits and long-term audit procedures on public procurement, as you find yourself at the Ministry. I remember that, in fact, last year, at the very beginning of your mandate, we were talking about deepening for larger ships, so it's probably a bit of a time-consuming issue here too. However, what my initiative is in this direction in this regard is that we would really be working here as actively and effectively as possible, so that we would also be helping construction and the economy by using European funds for infrastructure in this way and, on the other hand, the infrastructure Republic of Slovenia to this extent, as you now have in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u224	There was no further question, but just a few words about it. The announcement of these invitations was mentioned. In cases where it is a matter of awarding works in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, this procedure shall be carried out in accordance with this Act. And there's no dilemma, no publication on the portal, and so on. Most of the calls from our area are like this. Where tenders are intended for the general public, they have been announced. This call was made for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by municipalities or local communities. We announced this call last spring and then published it sometime in the autumn months. This call, which we are now publishing in the next ten days, is in fact only a continuation of this call because, on the one hand, there is insufficient funding for all projects that have been reported, which are around 180, and on the other hand, the possibility has been demonstrated during this interim period that one part of the funds allocated to transport infrastructure modernisation projects could be allocated to energy recovery. Why? Because the actual values will be lower than those originally assessed. This timeline has made its own and the implementation part of these projects has shown that they will mostly be implemented for lower values than originally planned and are also planned in these announced schemes. The result of this surplus is, however, the energy infrastructure sector under the same cohesion programme. Why this area? Due to the fact that these projects are extremely quick to be prepared, most of them do not require strong documentation and building permits, but they represent the highest added value at the level, so to speak, micro operators. This is a number of projects that will give this construction sector the highest added value in the Slovenian construction market. Since you have to count that, if this potential of European funds is to be here within two years, 2013 and 2014, about €110 to 130 million, one third of the funds will be added through all the other activities to be carried out. EUR 200 million in this work is a potential that will become known and will further contribute to all the activities that the Ministry is leading in the preparation and later in the implementation of major infrastructure projects. Earlier, I had forgotten to mention the field of energy infrastructure. Most of the projects are implemented at the level of energy companies. And the volume of all these investments that will take place this year is around €800 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajnar Tavš has a question for the Minister of Defence, Mr Aleš Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good evening, Minister! At the beginning of the summer, half a year ago, you raised the dust by reorganizing night work in the regional information centres. The system of protection and rescue, which has been under construction for more than thirteen years in our country, has been virtually overnight for a great test. And rightly so today, there is a fear that, in the background of this partial reorganisation, it intends to end the centres in at least six regions or places: in Murski Sobota, Ptuj, Slovenj Gradc, Postojna, New Town and Trbovlja, there is also a background for the integration of various services and, consequently, the privatisation of this part of the public sector or public services. This is also indicated by some of your past or previous statements. At that time in Positive Slovenia, as we said before parliamentary holidays, we called for an urgent meeting of the Defence Committee. We wanted an objective expert assessment of the consequences of the end of the night shift in the centres and, as a result, the complete abolition of the six regional information centres. That is why we invited workers, operators in these centres, representatives of local communities to the meeting. You know that representatives of regional centres and local communities have jointly drawn up rescue plans. We've called firefighters, health professionals. In short, everyone – except the government side at the time, found that there were actually more problems, confusion and that the system could not be implemented in practice with the same efficiency. If I make one banal case, it's plastic enough for all of us to understand. Why, an example of two operators covering the Trbovlje and Ljubljana area in the Trbovje two in Ljubljana before the reorganisation, now there are only two operators covering the Ljubljana region – Ljubljana and Zasavje region – which means that the number of workers working on the operational area has roughly halved. At that time, the Committee also adopted a decision to set up an independent inter-ministerial working committee, taking into account all active stakeholders in this area, which will examine all professional aspects more widely and also assess both the current abolition of night shifts and the planned merger of regional information centres. As far as I'm aware, the commission is expected to finish its work at the end of November. And I'm asking you right now, because today you have to have the results: What are the results of this analysis? At the same time, I'm asking you: What are the costs of the reorganisation so far, especially this night work, including travel costs, and of course how to proceed on the basis of these analyses?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Your Honor. First of all, I'd like to react to what you've been saying about some of my statements going this way to advocate privatisation. That's not my statement you've heard. I have never made such a statement, but I have always and everywhere advocated a more economical, rational and even more different, better use of tax money. I don't remember that at that session, as you mentioned, I think that in September, if I'm not mistaken, we could talk about the effects or even a little earlier, I apologize that even before September, it could have been about the effects of the night work, because there was no night work. I don't know how firefighters, paramedics and everyone else could have talked about how this way of work would collapse into a system of protection and rescue. Hold what you said, we started last year by reducing night work in five centers. I can say that this working time has actually gotten quite well. I can also tell you the cost. In these months, by the end of last year, we spent just over €42 000 on certain technical solutions that were needed on transportations, especially on the communication system. During this time, we have saved €35 000 600 on non-payment of night allowances, relocations, labour costs, overtime and so on, minus around €7 000. In these six months, however, we had to provide additional €680 for travel costs. If I only look at the period of these six months, we have created a minus of €7 000 in these six months, which is, of course, practically covered by this January and will bring a positive balance over all the months that I have just presented. Indeed, we then, as was the committee's direction, called the Inter-Resor Working Commission. In fact, all those who operate or are under the competent ministry with information centres, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior, participated. This Interdepartmental Working Group has actually reviewed all those centres on duty. All of these on-calls will be described in this analysis, and it will describe exactly how many people work there, how much resources are needed for this, how much maintenance and so on. By the end of November, the Commission had reached a conclusion that, given the obligations set out in the European Directives, other legal bases and the multi-annual nature of the work that had been established, in fact some centres would not be able to join together. We're talking about the airspace control centre, we're talking about the centers of Slovenian railways, we're talking about the centers Dars has, which is what a few centers could still count, where it's clear that these centers won't be able to merge. As far as the centres themselves are concerned for security, protection and rescue, i.e. 13 regional centres, the Commission has prepared a proposal for the phasing-out of individual centres, it is said in some of those where they work only in the night shift, but I have rejected this report. I demanded that a detailed financial analysis be prepared of what such a withdrawal means. Before any treatment, I also want to see pluses and minuses of the financial situation, and only on that basis will I be able to decide. But as for the fact that the two workers are supposed to be now, you kind of said, there were two, there were two, and together there are still two. I think it's also right to say how many of these two people do at night. I've had this information before. I have shown, for example, a situation where, during the nighttime of the information centres, specifically in the Rippers, on average, there may be two calls per night during the monthly period, two calls per day, two calls per day in Ljubljana, and 20 calls per day, while this number is significantly larger during the daytime. And unfortunately, you won't be able to convince me that those two people who do this at night in Ljubljana can't cover those two calls that come from the Ripper area. As far as the labour force itself is concerned [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] You'll probably ask me another question and then I'll answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u229	Will you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. You still gave me a little bit of hope because you said you asked for further analysis, but I would still like to remind you of one thing. I found the phrase "fiscal consolidation and structural reform to be interesting is an empty generic concept if there is no real instrumentalisation", in other words, let us leave when the content is important, mathematical numbers. How much are we going to save because we stopped one shift at a regional center? Yes, what's important now is that only two workers cover one larger region after another. And if the regional centre were to be abolished in the Sava region, it would mean that only two workers would cover this area in 365 days a year. That this move was pointless, it is also clear that at the time of the November floods you virtually activated all the employees at all the regional centres, including those you want to stop. However, Minister, allow me, I would like to ask you, because I have received information that a decision should already be drawn up which should go into the inter-resortary or governmental coordination that envisions a new reorganisation. I'm interested because you said you ordered new analysis: When do you expect these analyses, and what are the chances that this reorganisation or abolition of individual regional centres will not take place? Let me remind you once again that the representatives of the local communities also made it very clear at that meeting what it would mean to abolish the regional centre in the Sava region, the Mursko-Hodo region, specifically for this region or its inhabitants. The representative of the Medical Chamber also made it very clear at that time how important seconds are in saving human lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u232	Dear Member, I must say that you asked about the costs – on the one hand you ask and on the other hand you tell me not to talk about the costs. I just replied about those savings in the Trbovlje Regional Centre last year, and I presented nothing else. Even the indication of how wrong we were, because we activated the centres in the case of the flood, seems to me that they are also nicely said incorrect instigations. I made it clear on that committee that during all this time that these centres will operate experimentally, it is because of this experimentation that we will retain the possibility of triggering people into night shifts. And that's what we did in the major accidents that unfortunately happened in November. And all that happened was what I predicted, nothing else. I can't agree with the thesis that this turned out to be incomplete, but just as we have foreseen the situation, and we have also reacted in the same way as you said. When will this analysis be completed or when all these costs will be known definitively, I do not know. I have ordered that I wish to have this by mid-February at the latest, I am sure that it can be done by mid-February. However, I must make it clear that any organisation will not be eliminated by regional centres of protection and rescue. I already said that on the board. We're talking about two segments, we're talking about regional centres that are going to stay at these thirteen locations, and we're talking about information centres. We are talking about rationalisation of information centres, not regional centres for protection and rescue. Rationalisation will go as far as it goes, only in the direction of rationalisation of the information centres, not in terms of rationalisation of the regional centres of protection and rescue. In the end, all I have to say is that, given the current staff force, where we cover the whole of Slovenia from these 13 centres with different working hours, night and day, day and night at individual centres, if we all worked at night, we would need 22 additional workers, which would be half a million euros per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will also propose that the Minister's response be discussed in a broader way. Why the Minister? The Committee also agreed, inter alia, that before any reorganisation of the information centres you would undertake a comprehensive assessment of the situation and an analysis of the expected effects of these changes. You should at least get to know the competent committee of the National Assembly. That's one thing. Second thing, Minister, you've been deceiving a certain part. I wanted to warn you and ask you about the cost of this analysis. Why? Because you have consistently excused, and even today in response to this reorganisation or the cessation of night shifts, and gradually perhaps also the abolition of certain information centres in connection with rationalisation or cost saving. But the Minister, you know, and this is supposed to be in this decision, which is supposed to be marked "internal" and to which Members do not have access, that the envisaged reorganisation is an extremely expensive project and that there are no projected costs in the 2013 budget. On the other hand, I wanted to remind you that when we are talking about such important matters as the reorganisation of public services in the field of protection and rescue, or specific information centres, we need to have content before numbers. It's the public sector. In the background, there are people who need to have access to the operator when they need help in that second, who knows how to react and where to connect the caller. This is important. In this case, the seconds count and we also discussed this on the said committee. On the other hand, I would like to ask you, and perhaps even in this broader debate, to have an answer, and I would like to discuss whether this Commission, which is preparing a new analysis of the financial implications of this envisaged reorganisation, will also deal with the content, with the number of complications. This is important. The Minister mentioned certain costs today. 680 euros, I have noticed that only more payments should be made for travel costs. At the same time, he forgot to say that Slovenia, for the first time, because of this new way of working at night, is renting a line. These connections were formerly owned by the Ministry of Defence. Since the system, which went recklessly into some attempt, had to be adapted quickly, Slovenia had to hire links in order to deal with as much as it could normally operate during the nighttime. And it costs a lot of money. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held on this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. It's mag. Majda Potrat, who has a question for the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr. Žiga Turka.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Since the middle of last year, I have been asking questions related to higher education. This is the path I'm looking for in this area. At the rector conference in Maribor at the end of June, it was pointed out that brain drains were associated with disproportionate austerity measures in higher education. So in July, I asked the Minister how the ministry would prevent the programme poverty of public higher education institutions, reduce the availability of studies and brain drains abroad. Then something interesting was explained to me about the brain drain, but let's put this aside, and let's go back to the story of how it can be read from all the documents. The budgetary documents indicated that, even in 2013 and 2014, the Government's major savings intentions were reflected in higher education. Of all the things that could be heard from the higher education sphere, but I am thinking mainly of the three universities of the state, about 20 million were missing in order to be able to implement the programmes of the first and second levels of higher education programmes after the bologna. Since there was no response to this problem at the Ministry, the Social Democrats on the Committee on Finance have tabled an amendment to this activity, which is called the activity of higher education for twenty million. At that time, the amendment was not adopted, and the discussions of the coalition MPs and Members went further in the direction of misunderstanding the support of this amendment, until the plenary session, when we were able to deliver the amendments for 16 million. My conclusion is based on the Minister's statement that day after the adoption of this amendment, which has gone this way, that he is satisfied that he will now be able to receive the higher education of this 16 million. My specific question is: How does the Ministry intend to distribute the additional funds obtained by the adopted amendment to the 2013 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which were intended for the smooth implementation of the study programmes of public universities? The statements on this are different, very different, and I am interested in what the minister will say today. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The honourable Member has actually asked me the same question in writing, so now I do not know if I should just read the written answer that things will be the same, or should I say something else to make it interesting. As I have explained to the honourable Members in response to the written question, the Ministry's decision to provide an additional €16 million for higher education in the State budget for 2013 and an equivalent amount of €16 million for science in the State budget for 2013 was understood as the will of the National Assembly to increase funding for higher education and science in 2013 and 2014. In order to maintain the critical mass of researchers at Slovenian institutions, the Ministry decided to distribute the available funds between the activities of higher education and research activities. As Minister, I estimate that it would be foolish and unwise to give 16 million in 2013 only to higher education and nothing to science and in 2014 to give 16 million just to science and nothing to higher education. In 2013, the shrinking of resources for science would have the greatest impact on researchers at the beginning of their careers, those who have just completed doctoral studies and are not yet adequately integrated into the research environment. In 2013, two generations of young researchers, the ones according to the old programme, are the last, and the first after the Bologna programmes. This means that the pressure of these young researchers on the labour market, on the market of top intellectual work will be much greater and there is a likelihood of the best going abroad. With this concern, it is not only for higher education, but for science I must explain, however, the resources for science, we are now talking about these 8 million, but we have already given them to higher education or they will be dedicated to higher education activities. But the resources for science in Slovenia are divided by about half for public scientific institutes, and half of these funds are also given higher education in competitive and similar situations. So the final takeover of this 16 million will be for 12 of these 16 million to land in higher education, 8 from their educational activities and 4 from scientific research activities and 4 from public research institutions. We also need to be aware of this, someone will say, but now it's some other money for some other activity in higher education. Quality research activity in higher education is also essential for quality research activity. With regard to resources for science, the main resources will be transferred to the activities carried out by the public science agency, which will aim to strengthen those activities that focus on the conservation of young researchers, new researchers, the rejuvenation of Slovenian scientific organisations. The involvement of researchers in the programming groups will be supported in the period immediately after the completion of the doctorate, as this is a critical period when researchers are not yet adequately involved in the research environment and have no opportunity and no way to continue their research career alone. This High Council took an important decision at the time, because it was at its last meeting, it was also somewhat limited in what amendments it could still accept, what amendments were put in, for which item, for how much money, 16 million proposed that it be for higher education in 2013, nothing for science in 2013, in 2014 16 million for science alone, nothing for higher education. I have also decided, after consulting my colleagues at the Ministry, to consult with the Rectors of Public Universities, even after consulting the Director of the Public Research Agency, to distribute these funds to 8 million higher education institutions, 8 million to mechanisms that are science-related and from which half come back to higher education organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Will you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you. It's not about whether you're going to entertain me with your answer or not, but with your answer you've underestimated me again and attributed me to what you don't know about me and my attitude to science. And I am asking you about a specific amendment that was adopted in the National Assembly, which has been deliberately invested in what we are talking about. You have read almost the whole answer to me, but you have not read what is essential – that you have found in your reply that for 2013 you cannot spend any other means of science at all than to include younger researchers in project groups and it is a matter of employment. So you are deceiving me when you answer some things, and I am asking you over and over again what your attitude is to the decisions taken in the National Assembly, and I see that you feel no responsibility to them, as I believe, you feel no responsibility to the arrangements and to the conversations you are having with the various stakeholders of education. My position on everything you attribute to me that I do not care about this, but let me tell you that you are finally speaking at the starting points for the preparation of the 2014-2020 development strategy for Slovenia, that you also have something written in these starting points that you are supposed to be solving: the mobility of students, students and professors, especially young people, the circulation of the brain. You wrote it as a project, then you should use it as a project. Young scientists who have now been awarded scholarships tell you exactly how it is with the circulation of the brain that it is essentially a brain drain. I ask you once again, Mr. Minister: How will you allocate the funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u241	Secretary of State, Dr. Mark Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u242	Excuse me. I answered that question in writing. I answered it orally earlier. Now I won't tell you again. I am sure that in your monologue in which you will abuse the rules of procedure, you will say something else interesting and on occasion I will also answer these questions if any new answers are needed. Now you haven't asked anything new.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u243	Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u244	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the State Assembly discuss the Minister's response. It's in the rules of procedure. Today, however, we have been given eloquent infringements of the Rules of Procedure when the President of the Government answered my fellow Member when he answered the other Member's question and commented on this part of the Rules of Procedure to which we have the right of Members, but not the Ministers, and you will have to do so until you are the Minister. I don't think you understand what I'm saying. Members and Members of Parliament are part of the legislative branch of power. The Rules of Procedure allow us to interfere with legislative proposals. And once the National Assembly accepts, we formed what we wanted to form in the National Assembly. However, Minister Giga Turk is forming, in his own way and in fact, out of the 16 million voted in the amendment, a mere 4 million devoted to higher education activities. That's the truth. And that's why I keep asking him that question. It's something else. The aim is to ensure that the three public universities fulfil the obligations they have towards students from the higher education activities that enable them to implement the first and second degrees of Bologna for already enrolled students and allow them to attend the programmes in which they have entered. If this money is not available, then the programmes will be brought together, which Mr Minister has also advised the rectors, and they will not receive the same quality of the programme they have entered into. I have a feeling that in a ministry dealing with the entire educational vertical, knowledge is no longer recognized as a good in itself, as a public good, but all that happens in education is subject to market demands. The protection sign of the acceptability or inadmissibility of some educational programmes is simply whether those involved in the programme will also be employed. This is harmful and I think that this should be discussed. Knowledge is publically good, it's good in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mr Branko Ficko, who has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u246	Given the heat of the predecessors, we need a little more oxygen, which is why we have, fortunately, forests. Dear Minister! We like to say that wood is a strategic resource. However, the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and, consequently, your ministry has been cracking down on criticism for years to survive significantly too little for wood from state forests. The Court of Auditors also warns us that we are working in non-economically with state forests. In particular, this applies to the concession scheme, since we have lost on average approximately €16 million a year over the past years if, of course, someone else were to do the work on the basis of a call for proposals. While the concession fee has risen from €6 to €13 last year, there is €18 per new proposal, giving us about a million cubic metres of poor 20 million realisation on cut wood. This, however, would still be significantly less than the annual budget allocation by the State for forestry and thus makes a loss. Mr Minister, the conclusion of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has been suspended, although the annexation with concessionaires should be concluded by the end of January – why, I ask you, Mr Minister, since this makes the country further lose its return to concessionaires? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Minister Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you for this question, so that we can also tell the public what has been going on in this area lately. Three chairs to your left or my right to sit in the National Assembly in 2009, when, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I proposed for the first time after several years that the report of the Fund of Agricultural Lands be considered in the National Assembly, not only on the Parliamentary Committee. The constitutional problem was that I was one of those who also did not agree with the regulation which in the area of forestry or the extraction that the country has obtained from the state forests, since about one million cubic metres a year has been cutting through all these last years. The figures that you mentioned held all the way from 2006 to 2009 were even lower by about a million. And also on the basis of those pressures and debates that opened up on all bodies later, this return also slowly started to rise in the state forests, so that in 2010 it was then 7.5 million, in 2011 about 10.5 million and last year 14 million. In last year, when I became Minister, we immediately started, even though concession contracts had not yet been signed for last year, actively also with the Fund, that they had signed against autumn, and this return, which had already been mentioned, was achieved. At the same time, we have also prepared ourselves thoroughly for this year's 2013 concessions, given that we have all warned that the public in this area have also been very careful about the need to regulate matters in this area. That is why we expected and also received from the Fund before negotiating with the concessionaires themselves, that they proposed a price list at which prices of timber from the state forests according to the sales class in the market area. Then there were also proposals for services charged in the concession contract, as well as the cost of recovery, and finally the return from this transaction, which is for the fund of business, and for the concessionaires as well. Finally, according to the proceeds, it is said that the range, classification under these conditions, has also resulted in a gap between the Institute for Forests and the Fund for Agricultural Lands, and on this basis this projected return from the initial poor 14 euros, which was in line, has risen to the proposed 18 euro. As you have also written in a broader question, then, at the end of December, when these contracts should have been signed, there was a great opposition by concessionaires, and not everyone agreed to such a calculation, so after a new year we met representatives of the Fund, the Institute for Forests, concessionaries, then representatives of the Chamber of Commerce representing the woodworking industry, and representatives of the Ministry and talked about this in depth again. At the end of last week, this proposal for this year was reviewed in line, in order to make the starting prices for the calculation of those prepared by the Fund on a basic basis, that is, the 13.5 euros around, and this is the minimum price at which it is calculated that this concession fee will be paid in order to carry out a 100 per cent review, says the measurement of wood to quantities and also to the quality, to the classification that will then also see the final quality of wood. The difference between the evaluation of the Fund and the assessment of the Institute for Forests was exactly how many timbers, the class of which is in this class, which is assigned to this million cubicles. This issue will be fully monitored and will then be settled according to this amount. The next step is to review all these standards, together with experts who have drawn up standards for cuts, and to determine whether there is any loss for the country in this area. The third key issue is that I also mentioned that the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, forestry, were present to make the wood priced in the price available to the Slovenian wood processing industry at such a price. Last year, almost 80% of wood from state forests went to the Slovenian timber processing industry and to exports from private forests. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u249	Here you go, Mr. Ficko, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thanks for the answer. This is one species, I would say, a compromise proposal that does not solve the long-term issue. Clearly, in this chain of forests — saws — the timber processing industry is not fairly divided. Someone has too little, someone has too little, and above all, the country loses at the expense of other actors. It is likely that the responsibilities of the actors will need to be redistributed. In what way? Let's divide who's in charge of picking up, classifying, and, above all, shipping and selling timber, and, on the other hand, those in charge of cutting, harvesting, farming, transportation and so on. It is probably necessary to think or even support the proposals for the concession to obtain forest-forest chains, and very quickly, independently of the individual contracts concluded with concessionaires. This is, of course, a proposal, and I would also like to hear your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u251	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you for this opportunity. To get back to that first part, which I haven't answered you before, when you said the public service was making a loss. The public service is for all Slovenian forests, the state forests are about one-fifth in scale, and in this part this mission of the public economic service is significantly broader than just dealing with state forests. As far as these relations are concerned, we all know that the concession is concluded by June 2016 and also this proactive relationship that we have adopted at the Ministry is a relationship that wants to establish a situation relatively quickly in the right place, so that the possible allocation or future forest management will be significantly better than it is today. The Forest Act is in preparation, and three variants of future regulation are also on the line. The most professionally supports the arrangement to establish in the future a forest fund and agency as a company operating with these forests and on the one hand having a public service, and on the other hand not as it is now for twenty years a concessional relationship, but a significantly more active role as owners, whether it is a sex for the next five years, to set up areas, set a floor, auction on the spot, is said when trees are standing, and in this way management. I also fully agree with you and also here we wanted in this way, as you mentioned earlier, that the Chamber of Commerce was also involved, to establish this relationship already now, so that we will not receive any indications that the wood processing industry does not get wood at such prices as concessionaires do in price. And we want to establish this relationship already this year. There will also be an invitation to tender in March, with which we will support at least two to three wood centres, which are also listed in the Action Plan adopted last year, where we will also try to link in the background, so that one of the conditions and priority in this matter will also be where the Forest Owners Association will be, because private forest owners are also significantly underorganised and in some way become hostages in this entire chain. So in this area, I can calmly say that a lot of things are being prepared. Also, these starting points and the guidelines that have been made out of your words are entirely in line with what we wrote down in the action plan last year and are also being prepared in the background, it is said to be revived in the chain as a whole. Here, unlike agriculture, the first in the chain is better paid than the last one, unlike agriculture, where trade is the one that collects more. There is certainly forestry in a better position than the wood processing industry and, above all, small owners will need to be encouraged to make this intervention as large as possible and to re-establish concession relations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will ask the Minister of Justice and Public Administration, Dr Senk Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, look, we have recently witnessed many demonstrations, protests in which citizens and citizens express their ill will, anger and concern about the country we are in, and the situation in the country. This anger is at the expense of increasing poverty, unemployment, it is at the expense of a crumbling rule of law, a crumbling social state and, last but not least, it sometimes goes to these demonstrations alongside the ruling political elites at the expense of local politicians and local officials. In this matter that I am devoting to you, I would like to know your opinion or your ministry's view on how to proceed. In the Maribor case, we could see that in our legislation, even in the Local Self-Government Act, we do not have an institution to call off the mayor. So something as drastic as it is in Maribor must happen that people go to the street and in a way that is ultimately legal, require the mayor's resignation. We are among the countries where the mayors' elections, the mayors, are determined in a direct manner. Most European countries have this in an indirect way. In these countries it is easier to arrange an institute to recall the mayor or mayor. It's a little more difficult for us. However, as we look at the legal state taking place on the street, it would certainly be good to reflect on what and how this mechanism could be introduced into our legislation, so that, in cases of eccentric violations by mayors and mayors in their workplaces, they could serve this institution, call off the mayor, the mayor, the mayor and thus avoid all these protests, demonstrations where we know that something will happen to turn emotions into hatred, into vandalism and the consequences are so much greater. That's why I want to know: Is the installation of this instrument, this mechanism being considered, and how do you see the solution to this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u255	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you. I can confirm that, at the Ministry, we have begun to draw up legislation that would introduce this institution into the Slovenian system, so recalling the mayor, where voters would have been instigated, would have set a certain threshold for this to be required, say 15%, we have been thinking in this direction that a certain qualified majority of the voters involved would be necessary in order for this call to be valid. However, I cannot predict what the future fate of this proposal will be, which, as it is said, we have begun to prepare at the Ministry. But I'm pretty sure whoever takes over from me on Thursday is probably gonna keep going that way. My personal opinion and the opinion of the Ministry's professional services is that this institute is needed in approximately the same patterns as I just said. As it is said, I do not know what will be the further fate of the law in preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u257	Here you go, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u258	Thanks for the answer. I'm happy with that. In my question, I also announced that this issue would be in two parts, one of which is this, and the other concerns an absolute preferred vote. We know that our system is such that in local elections, lists and electors and voters cannot express their democratic will and elect the councillor or councillor of the municipal council, the municipal council they want. We see in Positive Slovenia that an absolute preferred voice would be a mechanism, it would be part of contributing to the democratic will of voters and voters to be able to choose that name, not just a list, but not just the first three or the first one on the list, but we could also choose one that is placed in the list somewhere to the end or in the middle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u260	Here I can only say that I also agree with the view you have just presented, but the fate of any amendments to the Local Elections Act is more in the direction of strengthening the preferred voice in the way you described it, so the introduction of an absolute preferred vote is also in the hands of the one who will take over the business from me in this department.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs Patricia Šulin will ask the Minister without a résor responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world of Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u262	Madam President, thank you for your word. The well-respected Minister of Slovenia in place and around the world, the long-term objective of the cooperation strategy between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous national community is to actively continuously exchange economic contacts of all forms with a view to strengthening cooperation with the economic operators of the majority people in the countries where the Slovenian national community lives, and to promote investment from neighbouring countries in the Republic of Slovenia. I want to know: How is the strategy implemented effectively and what projects are implemented on the basis of the strategy adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u263	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House, welcome. Thank you for your question. This strategy was adopted in 2011. The strategy aims to harmonise the synergies and strategic approach of all major economic factors from the Republic of Slovenia and neighbouring countries. We are particularly cooperating with various economic associations or agencies of all four neighbouring countries, where we find Slovenian minorities. This action is intended to strengthen existing and create new economic flows, increase competitiveness and also improve the cooperation of indigenous Slovenian minorities with the country of origin. In order to implement and monitor this cooperation strategy, a specific working body for the monitoring of the strategy is appointed at the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Leads and coordinates the work of this body exactly our office. In March 2012, the Government took note of the annual report on last year, and now this Thursday it is a re-session of this Council, where a report for this year and also a work programme for next year will be presented. Let me just list a few projects that were implemented in 2011. It was a business conference "Go Austria! Opportunities for companies from Slovenia in Austria". This conference was held in Celovac in Slovenian. More than 170 companies from Slovenia took part. There were different cross-border organisations and entrepreneurs from Slovenia, then there is always the possibility of a personal meeting, making contacts, exchanging contacts with these organisations or entrepreneurs in the future. The consultation was followed by the involvement of young people in cross-border economic processes. This was in Trieste in May 2011, or the purpose was to involve young people in cross-border economic processes. The consultation itself was aimed at coordinating initiatives and seeking synergies that can be achieved through existing resources and projects in different areas and through different programmes, in particular with a focus on young people. We are also developing a common portal to exchange information on the supply and demand of personnel and to increase the promotion of many opportunities for young people towards the creation of a common human resources market. Then there was cooperation in promoting the internationalisation of businesses and cooperation in preparing foreign direct investment. At the international trade fair in Celje, the Slovenian National Economic Association from Trieste and the Slovenian Economic Union from Celovac, which together presented themselves there, were connected with the aim of getting to know, connect and participate better. Round table Economic challenges and opportunities for cross-border cooperation and joint performance of young people from the replacement at a career fair at the Economic Exhibition. This is in the framework of the Fair My Work 2011. There was a round table on economic challenges and opportunities for cross-border cooperation. Here, for the first time, they also introduced themselves to young people from the localities. Then there is a presentation of the Zambian economy in the framework of the meeting of the Business Women's Association – FAM. There were 80 people here who were invited. Then create the section Economy that we have on the office's website. It contains news, current projects of cross-border cooperation, calls for proposals and a number of useful links to economic operators in Slovenia. A number of activities were carried out in 2012. Among the most prominent, heard, visited were the Ptuj conference and Grosuplje conference, where many entrepreneurs participated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you very much. If you still have a set of these activities in 2012, can you complete your answer in this part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u267	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u268	This year, we will continue these established activities. In particular, in preparing conferences to be attended by entrepreneurs. We're already preparing a conference like this first. I think he'll be in Idria in April. At these conferences, we will invite foreign organisations, entrepreneurs not only from the replacement, but also wider, from Italy and Austria. We will also invite representatives of local communities and regional trade-business chambers as well as economic chambers. In the future, we also intend to strengthen cooperation between Slovenian and Somali municipalities. Therefore, at the office we will prepare some kind of excursion to which we will invite Slovenian mayors or saints who will have the opportunity to meet with the mayors of the municipality – in Italy we have quite a number of Slovenian mayors – where they will learn about certain projects, activities in these municipalities and thus have the opportunity to connect closer contacts and cooperation with the municipalities. Similar projects will also be repeated in the second half of the year in the economic field, as well as in connection with the municipalities of the Republic of Macedonia. Well, I haven't had time to stress that we are promoting cooperation in cross-border projects. Since this has resulted in certain congestions, problems, administrative obstacles, we have organised a conference with the National Assembly and the Office, at which all interested parties have presented the difficulties they face in applying for and implementing projects, in co-financing. Then we did an analysis, which we also provided to the competent ministries. This will also encourage this cross-border cooperation on European projects in the future. However, the Office has the most important role to play in cooperation in the field of culture, education, and we will also introduce some innovations here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žigi Turku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! By adopting certain measures, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made a grave effort to act autonomously in the field of sport. Personnel cleansing in the Sports Council and the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, based on the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, to which the Law and Law Service has made a number of legislative comments, are obviously only part of the scenario of political ownership of this part of civil society. Even though the Directorate for Sport should focus intensively on the preparation of a proposal for a national programme for sport and other acts in this field, it is unacceptable to interfere with the functioning of those institutions that perform their tasks successfully. One of these is the Office for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia Planica. Only a few weeks after the exceptionally resounding opening of the renovated jumps, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia suspended it and transferred the tasks to the newly established Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia. The words of the competent minister at the opening mentioned above, I state that "Planica is one of those connecting elements in the country where there was never a dispute between the positions and opposition parties", at the end of the statement, a good month later they respond as first-class cynicism. The Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have grave principles about the connectivity of the story of Planica, which was also expressed by the National Assembly without a vote against the adoption of the Law on the Nordic Centre of Planica within the mandate of the Government of Borut Pahor. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not only raises reasonable doubts about the well-intention of the decision, but also raises serious legal concerns. The activity of the Sports Office of the Republic of Slovenia Planica is defined by the Law on the Nordic Centre of Planica and the admissibility of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to change the name and derogations from the legally prescribed mode of operation is therefore formally questionable. It also raises the question of how to draw on European funds, as the Planica Institute is listed as the beneficiary. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What activities is planned or implemented by the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport for the efficient and dedicated use of European funds in the implementation of the Nordic Centre Planica project? It is two stages and a significant European resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u271	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this question as well. I must say that I admire what it says when it says that we are striving for, quote, the "political ownership" of sports work or this part of civil society, so we are seeking to politically acquire sport, on which it is probably still a party colleague, once the Secretary-General of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, Mr Janez Kocjančič. I'm afraid that part of the sport, you don't know, but part of the sport was far from being just civil society. Then you asked a question about the Planica Sports Institute or the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that Planica is something very important for Slovenian sport, very important for Slovenian identity, for our confidence. Of course, Planica is not the only thing Slovenians have in sport, and therefore we have decided to call the only public sport institution the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, operates the organizational unit of the Centre Planica. We have started to develop the Plan of the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, sometimes you like to quote the island of isolation from this resolution, but even a few smart projects have been somewhat less ambitious in this resolution. And in this resolution at the time, we wrote that by upgrading the modern Nordic centre we will offer quality, tourism and sports services. The plant shall be constructed or renewed by means of the European Regional Development Fund. Includes or includes the Centre for Ski Jumps and Summers, the value of the entire project of the construction of the Centre for Ski Jumps and Summers is just over €21 million, without value added tax. By the end of 2012, some €8.5 million had been paid or realised. For 2013, we plan to realize all parts of this part of the Nordic Centre Planica of EUR 11 million, EUR 400,000, and the remainder of the value after all errors have been corrected in 2014. The second component is the Ski Running Center. Planica signed a financing contract with the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport within the framework of the operational programme for strengthening regional potentials 2007-2013 for the Nordic Centre of Planica, second phase, the Centre for Skiing. On the basis of the contract, the Institute began to draw on European funds totalling EUR 15 million. The Running Centre is expected to be upgraded by 2014, the realisation of these funds by the year around €700 000, and we are planning 8 million €150,000 for 2013. Here is the fourfold increase in investment in sports infrastructure, which I have also talked about in the reply to Member Kavticnik, and the sports halls connected to the European basketball championship are here. For 2013 8 million 150 000, for 2014 6 million 400 000 euros. This will represent the entire Nordic sport, with an additional offer, with products that will allow every visitor to find something for themselves. There was an architectural competition. Among the solutions received, according to the Commission, the best substance of Planica was hit by two design groups, the Projective Bureau of Blenkus-Floriančič for the design of landscape and sports facilities and the Thing, d.o.o. O., for the design of buildings. On the basis of the award-winning architectural solution, we carried out the design of individual stages, obtained five building permits, for the renovation of the Gorišek brothers' airport in March and for the central building – for ski runs in May this year. So far, we have made ten public procurements following an open process on the EU portal. The construction of Bludkov's giant, which was a series of years of Slovenian shame, reminds us of those broken cases in the valley under Ponca, which was actually the reason for investment in the Nordi center of Planica, is already in use. I think our jumpers are already using it and exploiting it. With some probability, we can argue that the sports successes of our jumpers are also the fruit of this acquisition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u274	Thank you. As early as 2008, the then Minister of the Beast had announced how well work was going, and it was known that he had left matters so far that all the land had not been bought. Since then, much has really happened, and you have also mentioned part of the funds spent from European funds. The question raised and mentioned in the introductory text is a questionable legal solution. With the government's decision, you reached into the law that was passed. By law, the Nordic centre of Planica was established, a public institution, and you have now transformed this public institution into two organisational units. Even the Legal and Legal Service, your government legal service, told you about it. In fact, it is now because you have given the introduction of the reply to a large extent to politicisation, it is probably also necessary to ask an additional question if the answer is not hidden in the fact that you have been able to resolve the previous director of the Nordic Centre Planica by reshaping and will or will you put yours. Well, the way the human resources policy works at your ministry is very interesting. And even if you are not overly concerned at your ministry whether the Court of Auditors or the Commission has concerns about individual management or senior government officials to prevent corruption, don't even think about it. But the fact that you're removing people who showed up in their professional work is a fact. And the part of the sport that is supposed to be fully processed in this new institution will certainly not be because the sport for young people is moving elsewhere. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Since you also mentioned the sport of young people, including Mr Kavtičnik, unfortunately he is not here now, he had one long discussion after I could no longer answer. All these Golden Suns and Krpani, all that remains, for the financing of youth sports, of course we care. All these activities are defined in the sport programme and it would be most appropriate for the Minister to refer to this sport programme or to ask a question if there may be a mistake in this sport programme. Mrs Potrata, with regard to politics, you started the debate. I didn't start it. The matter with regard to the Planica Sports Institute is completely clear. The legal legacy is perfectly clear. We are optimistic about the continuation of parts in the valley under the Poncas. Contracts have been signed for the construction of children's and young jumpers, for the service facility, for the ski jumps of Chaplja, for the execution of the hoist lift for the rehabilitation of the rotor and so on. On the big airport of the Gorišek brothers, we will continue with the parts immediately after the end of the World Cup in ski flights on 24 March. In addition to the contracts already signed this year, we will also restore the airport, and I expect that we will work to make it the world's largest. We will start with parts at the central ski facility and on running routes that will be completed in 2014. As far as the Court of Auditors and similar cases are concerned, however, let me say that the Nordic Centre Planica project was audited by the Court of Auditors and gave a positive opinion on the work done, which in our opinion also ensured that the Nordic Centre Planica project would be successfully completed within certain deadlines.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u276	Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the second paragraph, Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a debate on the reply of Minister Turk. I think that the debate on sport would be welcome. I have already mentioned that there is no national programme for sport, that the Sports Act 1998 is and that we receive MEPs and Members a number of comments on this law. Particularly worrying are those judgments that measure young people’s sport. I am pleased, however, that you, Mr Minister, have said that the Court of Auditors in relation to the Nordic centre of Planica had no comments, so it is even more strange that you are shutting down this institution, reorganising it, and at a time when you are supposed to save, you are shutting down a number of saints, a number of bodies, and there will be two organisational units here in a public institution that will not bring any savings if this is supposed to be the point of reorganisation, because we often hear that there would be a greater rationalisation of savings. This raises the question of why something that works well needs to be reorganised. In doing so, people are in key positions to prepare reorganisations, but in their own pocket or in their own box of comments either by the Court of Auditors or by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, not just brilliantly good opinions, but rather by someone who is responsible for the appointment of these people for a period of five years for leadership functions, to give some thought rather than a recommendation for their appointment. And this is what, with the success of sports, including jumpers, including other athletes, raises the question that sport and activity, the sport strategy in the National Assembly and also in the working body are virtually not being discussed, so the debate on the Minister's response would be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u278	About your proposal, mag. Spending, we'll decide on Wednesday, 30. 1., in the context of the votes. Mrs. Tamara Vont, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you very much. On hearing the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Religious Freedom, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, you wrote, last June, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal, inter alia, that the Government was already preparing this law, a new law and that in September 2012, when I asked you how this law shows, you said that you anticipated that it would be put into parliamentary procedure before the end of last year. The bill, as we know, has not yet been proposed. He's not here yet. I want to know: Why isn't he here when you plan to see him? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you so much for asking. Everything you say is true. The law is written, it is aligned with almost all the departments and will be included in the Government as soon as we assess that it could also be adopted in Parliament. In fact, during the coming political crisis, we do not want to open another issue that could lead to impatient debates; we do not want human rights to be as important a topic as religious freedom, a victim of bad atmosphere and mistrust here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u282	Here you go, Mrs. Vonta.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad to hear that there were a few empathies. I hope that in other cases, for example, in the case of deleted, it will be possible to hear something similar so that we do not discuss matters that separate and similar. Now I have just two more specific questions. I'm about to know what this new draft is, and I'm interested in two things. We have also dealt with one petition in the petition commission, signed by 30,000 people concerning the taxation of the church and the financing of social contributions to the priests. Now we have a second such petition, as well as a mass-signed, just before the hearing. I don't know how you comment on that. Could this also have affected the law of religious freedom? That's one thing. Another matter that interests me briefly, however, is how you will evaluate the number of believers under the new law, according to the law you have drawn up. What information? It says here that thousands of members of a registered church or other religious community are members of one religious official of this church or another religious community, and that the number of their members are proving with credible data sources, including the use of data from the last census. As far as I know, there wasn't a question in the last list. I don't know what they're gonna have to offer you. That's what I'm interested in. How will they prove the number of members of a religious community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u284	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u285	All these questions that you are now asking are, of course, questions that I am sure we will be talking about when this assembly is considering a amendment to the Law on Religious Freedom. If I have listened correctly to the President at the beginning of these questions, you cannot, under the rules of procedure, ask in the second part of the new questions that you have now done. In this way, I will use this Rules of Procedure to remind you that you have asked new questions and not only have asked for an answer to the question already raised. But, as it is said, the substantive issue is the subject of a debate on the novelty of the Law on Religious Freedom. We cannot now discuss a question under this law separately, or I can answer the questions that have been sent to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper, Minister of Justice and Public Administration Dr Senk Plitchanič, will raise the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have a brief question regarding the land book. As a real estate record, the Land Book, which contains data on legal facts and real rights on real estate, is particularly important because of its impact on real estate trade, and in order to ensure trust in the land book as the basis of land-book law, it is crucial to keep the land book up to date and to keep it in business, since it is only by doing so that the parties can obtain accurate data on rights and legal facts on real estate, which then affects legal security in real estate traffic. As we know, the alignment of the land book with the actual situation and the operation of the land book has changed significantly in recent years as a result of the information project, which is still part of the project to modernise real estate recording. So, according to my forecast, I'm asking you first, or I'm asking you for information: What proportion of the entries in the land book are now in line with the actual state of affairs, and what is the trend in solving the book’s backlogs over the last few years, say five? Do you think or assess the informationisation of the land book has a beneficial, positive impact on the reduction of the book’s backlog? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u288	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u289	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll finally have a chance to answer that question. First, with regard to the first part of the question, how many percent of all matters in the land book are properly settled. Here you're probably referring to the consistency between the Earth Book data, the Earth cadastre. Consistency is 99.9%. So almost perfect. There have been some problems over the years, now they're gone. As for the second part, to what extent does the informationisation of the land book contribute to the speedy elimination of judicial backlogs in this area, I can answer that very, decisively. I can present the information for the last five years, just like you wanted. Total number of cases of judicial backlog at 31. 12. 2011 was almost 50% lower than on 31. 12. 2007 So in five years, 50%. Even better is the data from last year, which shows that it is in the first nine months, i.e. in the first nine months of 2012, according to state 31. 12. In 2011, backlogs in land-booking cases decreased by 66%. All of this is mainly on account of the informationisation of the land book. We are also predicting, as well as the judiciary, that judicial backlogs in this area will continue to decline rapidly in the future and that they will soon be eliminated. In fact, the land book area is one of those areas where the judiciary is doing very well, where judicial backlogs are rapidly decreasing and where the length of entry into the land book and other land book cases is steadily falling. When it comes to these key two issues, including the judicial reforms I have drawn up myself, i.e. how to speed up the functioning of the courts, it must be said that these problems, which are in other areas or in most other areas, especially when it comes to so-called important matters, do not exist when it comes to the land book. On the contrary, the courts work very well here, in fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u291	If I may supplement it. Minister, as you probably think, I wanted to hear your assessment precisely because there are some changes planned here, which some think are evolving in the right direction and that you are also satisfied as a department minister with them, I am interested in: In your opinion, what added value is the planned consolidation of the land book and the cadastra, especially given that this last proposal, which I am aware of, does not differ significantly from that of the old Janša government proposal, where the possible unconstitutionality of this solution was already exposed at that time? If I am correctly informed, this proposal for a real estate law would also then transfer the decision at the first stage to the administrative authorities, referring to the GURS and, at the second stage, to the courts. And according to my information, I am aware of the letter from the Supreme Court, but it seems to him that this is also disputed from the point of view of some financial assessment of this intervention. I wonder how, given what you've said before, good trends, you're assessing this planned change?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u292	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u293	First of all, I would like to say that I am opposed to this proposal. This is a proposal from a colleague of Montenegro, and I did not agree with him, and I still do not. I believe that such a merger, as provided for in this law, has been standing for some time now and I do not even know what its fate is or will be, which foresees the consolidation of the land register, the land cadastre, and so on in Gurs, that is, within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. I object to this because I see no need and no sense, no added value. Some change makes sense if we get something with it, if we fix something, if there's a positive result, I don't see it here, the greater I see the danger of making things worse. It is important to know that the position of the land book when it comes to information is much better than that of the cadastral when it comes to the issue of informationisation. And in general, so if we compare both systems, the land book system is in a significantly better condition, and that is why such a merger in the administrative body would not make sense. A whole bunch of other dilemmas are opening up this merger. But, as I say, I don't support her. What her future destiny will be, we'll see. At the same time, I can say that I do not think, as the judiciary thinks, that the land book is judicial jurisdiction, something that is an eminent branch of the judiciary. That's not true. The earth’s book, as well as the cadaster, can be organized in a different way. An example and proof of this is the Netherlands, where the land book is not organised within the framework of the judiciary. But right now, this works great, and if something works great, there's no need to change it. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič will raise the question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Zvonk Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u295	Dear Minister, Mr. Blackach! In October 2011, the basis for the resolution on the national programme for the development of public rail infrastructure for the period 2011-2030 was adopted. According to the latest reports from Brussels, Slovenia is expected to be placed in both rail corridors, Baltic and Mediterranean, which is positive news, as Europe will also co-finance investments in these two corridors in the next financial perspective 2014-2020. Dear Minister: Can you confirm that Slovenia is finally placed as an equal partner in both rail corridors, Baltic and Mediterranean? Besides, I'm asking you: Is your ministry preparing a national programme for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure for the period 2030 and 2050? Will financial consolidation be part of the national programme or any other programme, which will also be based on the 2013 and 2014 budgets and development plans by 2017 for the construction of railway infrastructure by 2020 at least? I have received quite a few amendments from our European Members and Members, who I see are trying to table amendments. I was a little concerned about reading all these documents, which are not enough for the European Commission to think we were nothing to you, and it did not even place us as a full member of the European Union in that corridor, especially when we are talking about the TEN-T Baltic-Adriatic Corridor. It is good that our MEPs tabled the amendments and that they have accepted this and confirmed it on the committees. I wish that this would also be definitively confirmed and accepted in the European Parliament. However, I am concerned that in the country of Slovenia we perform so soloistically that every minister who comes here somehow behaves differently to this single European space that we are part of. If we do not connect to the European space and if we do not prepare, not just a resolution, and talk about certain desires, but if we do not clearly write this down and also bring projects in nature to an end, we can actually fall out of these very important European transport flows and then we can actually forget the development of this, promised to us, country of Slovenia, about which we so like to talk about, has an excellent position. It doesn't mean anything to us, and it doesn't help us, which we don't actually know how to use. I'm asking nicely for your opinion and your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u296	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u297	Thank you, too, for that question. The question was whether Slovenia was placed in both railway corridors, Baltic-Adriatic and Mediterranean or Mediterranean. The answer is yes. Slovenia is included in both corridors within the framework of the regulation on the establishment of a nuclear rail network. A few words, perhaps, about history. In order to facilitate the implementation of the trans-European TEN-T network in the next financial perspective in 2014-2020, the European Commission has already proposed the establishment of corridors for the so-called nuclear network. It identified these corridors in the proposal for a regulation establishing an instrument for European integration. In the basic proposal published by the Commission in October 2011, Slovenia was covered only in the Mediterranean or Mediterranean corridor. In the process of addressing the proposal on the working bodies of the Council of the European Union, Slovenia succeeded in including it in the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor, and the proposed regulation also lists the section of Ljubljana – the Croatian border against Zagreb. Such a proposal was endorsed by the Transport Ministers' Council at a meeting held in March 2012. The European Parliament's Transport Committee, as you yourself have mentioned, confirmed in December such a solution and it is expected that Parliament will do the same in plenary this year. As regards the placement of Slovenia in both railway corridors, Baltic-Adriatic and Mediterranean or Mediterranean, Slovenia is located here within the framework of a nuclear network. Of course, this will not help us much in the future if we do not meet the requirements set out before the Member States in this Regulation, the specifics to be met by the network in terms of axle loads, train lengths, speed and everything else will also be successfully implemented. And here's the answer to the second part of the question. I have already mentioned that the Ministry is preparing a resolution on the national programme for the development of transport infrastructure. One part of this resolution is also the modernisation of the railway network. The government addressed these issues at one of the autumn meetings and accepted some of the tasks the Ministry carries out. As part of this resolution, the following areas have been addressed for rail infrastructure: development of public rail infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia; development of public rail infrastructure for the needs of transit and domestic freight; development for the needs of local passenger transport; development of inter-urban and international passenger transport; development of infrastructure for fast distance transport; common network strategic baselines for the development of public rail infrastructure; and priority projects for the period 2014-2020; and projects to be implemented after that period until 2030 and beyond. As part of this document, which we are preparing for ourselves at the Ministry, there is also a financial framework or financial resources for the financing of individual sections, which may be a little longer because it is a rather difficult area. In addition to the known resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia available at around EUR 110 million per year for road taxes and other charges intended for the development of transport infrastructure, the main source for the next period 2014 d-2020 is the European Cohesion Policy funds, as well as the resources not yet drawn from the current financial perspective 2007-2013, which will be used to modernise this network in the period until the end of the implementation of this perspective in 2014 and 2015. The resources we are relying on in the framework of the strategic partnership for the implementation of individual infrastructure sections are also a special resource. We believe that this resolution will be completed in a short time, followed by a discussion in the Government and a public debate and then an endorsement or adoption in the National Assembly. It will also be suitably assessed so as to provide an appropriate basis for the implementation of all those projects to be implemented under the 2014-2020 perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u299	Complementary. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I am sure that this time we will be able to achieve this goal together, so that we will finally be included and linked to the European main corridors, just as it is appropriate and not as it has spoken or negotiated or better said directly in 2006-2007, when it began to talk about common connecting corridors, that as a country we were not in the European space, we have fallen out of this work. We know we have a connection to the Adriatic Sea. We know that this is our national wealth, our comparative advantage with the other European countries, and if we do not deal more intensively with this project accelerated, we will miss out on other opportunities, as has been the case in the past. The port of Koper is very important, it is strategically important, but this can be written by the Government in its strategy or in the capital investment management strategy of the Republic of Slovenia or it does not. The fact is that Luka Koper is extremely important for the development of this country and we can play a key role in the supply of Central Europe in connection with other ports, Trieste, River, possibly with Raven and Venice. We know that we have on the right hand side of Suez, that we have Gibraltar, that the largest quantities of cargo are to be brought here by sea. We have a corridor into the heart of Europe along the sea, and obviously we did not know how to take advantage of it in the past. Now after 22 years we are just talking about the second track, whether it will be real by 2020, and it should already be, I'll say, a hard-buried construction site and [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me this: Will your ministry and professional services really do everything and really actively engage?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u300	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you very much. The activities we have carried out in the past year speak of the fact that we are aware of what can happen if what Slovenia has done within the framework of its placement in these corridors fails to be realized in practice through the modernisation of railway infrastructure. A very valuable time in recent years, as you yourself have found, has unfortunately been delayed. During this period, some neighbouring countries have been extremely active in modernising and building new railway infrastructure and will be ready to adopt by 2022 and 2023 significantly different types of transhipment than they are capable of today. This is why it is a very important task for us to ensure, in particular, adequate modernisation in the fifth corridor, not only because of the needs of the port of Koper, but also because we are opening up new possibilities for transshipment for some neighbouring ports. The ports of Koper, River, Trieste and others within the North Adriatic ports, as you know, are now being merged into an association called NAPA. This is an association which is supposed to in some appropriate way divide the possibilities of transshipment of different types of cargo according to the capacity these ports have, because it is not a problem that this cargo would not be sufficient, but the problem is that individual ports are appropriately specialised in individual types of cargo and that this part of the goods available in this area are adequately distributed. I think that the time is coming when this rather loose connection within these North Adriatic ports can also be upgraded in one part in terms of capital connections. Time will bring its own. I am confident that this will also be followed by a very important part or very important situation in this connection, of course, ensuring the adequacy of the railway corridor within this fifth corridor. Thus, it is crucial that this network be modernised and that, in this interim period, until, in a formal sense, a new Divača-Koper route project is prepared, the first phase of modernisation, which we call preparatory work, is to be carried out by the end of 2015 and should allow for an increase in the transshipment capacity for the needs of the port of Koper from the current 72 to 103 trains per day.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u303	Dear Minister, I think we will both agree that too many years have passed and that too much time has been spent and too many opportunities and opportunities have been wasted, so I propose that, in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a public debate be held on this subject, and in particular on your answers. This is an important area and given that in the past there have been so many mistakes, so many unwise decisions and the neglect of such an important area as the integration and integration of Slovenia into European transport flows, I propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly. If the National Assembly does not vote on this, I will propose that we convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, probably together with the Committee on the Economy, in order to seriously discuss and in depth identify where we are, what we still need, what we are still missing in preparing a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure. See, Croatia is preparing to join the EU, when we were preparing, we did not talk and negotiate as Croatia talks. It is clear today that Croatia will be with Slovenia and we have been in the EU for several years now, and at the same meeting of the European Parliament they will also confirm their link between Koprivnica-Zagreb-Rijek. I think that Slovenia should do so at the time of 2006-2007 and that we should speed up the restoration of existing infrastructure in the field of rail transport and that we should invest in public passenger rail transport, as we do in countries where there is more understanding and more experience and where they already have a somehow completed phase of sustainable development, green development, which we are just talking about and agree that we should also think about a green breakthrough once. Unfortunately, we have failed in the past, but it is never too late, and I hope that this time we will be able to manage so much wisdom that we will not divide into yours, ours, lefts and rights, but that we will actually work for the benefit of all of us and for the development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u305	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I must say, I'm disappointed that the minister's not in the hall, and I didn't see him apologize for being away. Given the fact that at the beginning of the meeting we discussed whether he would resign today or on Thursday, because he has so much work until Thursday, I think he will also have this duty to answer the question and I am disappointed about it, and I find it unrealistic and irresponsible on his part. However, I will ask this question and I want a written answer from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u306	Agreed, but in the beginning, by telling the president that the minister was excused after 19 hours, you may have overheard.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u307	Then I apologize, and I overheard. In December 2012, more than the necessary Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks entered into force. Just before that, we have also survived the constitutional review in the Constitutional Court, and we should now work more than intensively on all the necessary conditions to begin the actual operation of the rehabilitation of state banks. But look at the fraction, according to the information I have at my disposal, nothing is happening on this matter. According to some information, it is Banka Slovenije who does not agree with the method of assessing bad claims. As a Member myself, I cannot rely solely on newspaper articles like some of my fellow Members and colleagues, of course, when it suits them. That is why I am asking you a question from the Member States, because only your answer will correspond to the real state of affairs in this matter. I'm asking: What is really happening or is not happening on this more than a matter of urgency for our country? I'm asking for specific answers. When can you finally expect the first positive results of the bank system recovery? Simple people who meet me in the streets and ask me that question are more than concerned and almost desperate. They believe that there will be nothing in all of this and that those who have taken advantage of these more than problematic loans will not respond, while simple people are immediately responsible for the smallest offenses. I ask and want a concrete answer, for which I thank you very much in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u308	Thank you very much. You will receive a written answer. The final question of today will be posed by the Magi. Stanko Stepišnik to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Zvonet Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Again, I must conclude that of the 79 registered there is only one other Member and four members from Positive Slovenia and one from DeSUS. Thank you so much for being here. And, of course, Mr. Minister Chernač, to whom the question will be addressed, plus three experts. Construction is an extremely important business sector, with about 87,000 employees in 2008, while the previous year 2012, at the end of the year, 69,000 employees were poor. This is said to have been the third most powerful activity in Slovenia in 2008 after the number of employees, and today it has fallen tremendously because its social gross product from 2008 when 8.7 per cent of the social gross product fell to a poor 4 per cent of the structural share of the social gross product. This is a significant decline, which also means a fall in value added, replacing the remaining industry, but the remaining industry is not strong enough to accelerate economic growth or the growth of the social gross product, so we are even recording negative growth for last year close to 3%. The 30,000 less workers in construction, and probably also between 30 and 50 thousand who have gone to the former republics of Yugoslavia, represent a huge loss in the Slovenian economy. If the volume of operations or construction needs was EUR 3.5 billion in 2008, it decreased to EUR 1.2 billion in 2012. This is an extremely large drop in the demand for construction works, which in fact means that the branch is extremely poor. We could even say that because of all these bankruptcys that have taken place, there is a whole activity in the crisis, as it also includes various schools from builders, professional, medium, high, colleges, various institutes that have tried and given materials, some standards, that is to say that I can talk about the entire crisis of this activity in Slovenia. Mr. Minister, because of this great fall and because the construction situation is getting worse, I would ask you to say: Cate [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u310	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u311	Thank you very much. I will read the question, honourable Member, because you have run out of time: What measures have you taken in 2013 to improve the conditions of construction and when will you start implementing them? This oral question was thus announced. I am pleased that this is actually a construction sector, which is very important because it has multiple effects in many other areas and in many other sectors. I don't know, to put it simply, a hundred new apartments means a hundred kitchens, a hundred living rooms, two hundred children's rooms, a hundred bedrooms and so on. Not to mention everything else that this activity brings with it. There must be two reasons that have led to the collapse of this construction activity in recent years. You mentioned one. It's not just the crisis that caused this collapse. A very important factor is the general economic crisis. However, there is one major problem, at least in our country, this unfortunate property, which has occurred mainly in some major construction systems in recent years, where, at some point, senior managers have not seen that the moment is not appropriate, that energy and ambitions should focus on the development of this activity instead of ownership, and the consequences are also related to this crisis here. Of course, it is not only in this ministry that can, in particular, allowing certain projects to be placed in a room for deregulation to be implemented more quickly and so on. A stable business environment is very important. This applies not only to construction but to virtually all business activities. What a stable business environment means, we all know. The first attribute of this regulated stable business environment is that the rule of law works. The way it works in Slovenia, we see it at every step. The average period of resolution in business matters in Slovenia is still a thousand 390 days, in Germany four times less. Not to mention cases where individual contractors, subcontractors and so on, despite many regulations, are still without pay for the work done. Some of this has improved, but of course not yet. There is still a number of work and activities to be done here, especially in the area of this legal stable environment and in the area of a properly functioning financial and banking system. Here is an important step has been taken when the law on a bad bank has been passed, with regard to cutting off these bad claims, to exclude them separately, to allow cleaning and, on the other hand, to enable banks to function normally to monitor ongoing projects that are beginning to take place slowly. At the Ministry in the past year, we made some of the most urgent changes mainly in the area of spatial building legislation. Where possible, we have accelerated activities to prepare state spatial plans. 16 have been adopted in the past year and so many are expected to be adopted this year, which means some potential to generate new investments, new projects. We have accelerated the activities I mentioned earlier in response to one of the questions put forward in drawing on European funds. Thus, the extent to which the Ministry has a direct or direct impact amounts to approximately a billion 600 million investment potential in transport and energy infrastructure projects in 2013 about half, 800 on transport and 800 on energy infrastructure. Of course, there are also activities that will follow this in individual local environments and by individual private investors. Once the wheel slows down as it is in our country, of course it takes some time to start back in some normal way and get some normal flow. Nevertheless, I think that we are somehow at the most critical point and that this year will be sometime in autumn that year, which will talk about increasing these construction activities, and that what has been done in the last year will also be known in this area. We are moving forward with the national housing programme, in addition to the activities we have launched and which have stood for some time, in such a way as to accelerate investment in this housing fund as well, in order to allow the use of dwellings that are currently unoccupied and are in one way or another the burden of the balance sheets of individual banks. And, of course, all the other activities that will allow us to channel the resources available both from cohesion policy funds and from other sources into a range of investments in the infrastructure field in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u312	Here you go, mag. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u313	Thank you so much for that partial answer. In fact, this construction sector has also declined considerably in Europe, but much less, some data speak for 17% and in Slovenia for 40%, which was somehow understood from the above figures. In fact, the housing problem is that in 2009 there were about 11,000 housing units, in 2011 7 000 900, of which many individual investors, are said to be individual private investors, not companies, about 6 000, and from completed dwellings we just fell from 2009 from 8 000 500 to 5 000 500 apartments. It is said that we are also somewhat behind in housing construction. I think we all deal with these bankruptcy procedures, especially in construction, but there is no real result. Well, I am looking forward to this year's revision, as the report of the working group on the preparation of measures for the rehabilitation of construction in Slovenia by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology already a year and a half ago indicated certain conditions in construction, the causes of the crisis, the support measures, the proposals for the measures of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise have also been taken into account. Some measures have also been taken. You mentioned some of these measures, but those that would accelerate employment are mainly energy and construction rehabilitation of buildings. We know that 40% of the total energy consumed goes to heating apartments in Slovenia. And the intervention of the Housing Fund on the real estate market was one of the actions, major infrastructure projects, internationalisation and foreign direct investment [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u314	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u315	Thank you very much. We are also working in this exact segment. These proposals, which have been tabled by the Chamber of Commerce, are welcome or are also part of what is the Ministry's policy, not just ours, but the whole government's policy. As regards bankruptcy and the consequences of the implementation of works on individual projects, a new law on public procurement will be needed, a novelty that will allow the activities to take place more quickly when bankruptcy occurs, so that there will be no half a year or more free running. Of course it's best not to. However, if this is already happening, then I think it is right that it is also possible, through legislation, that these activities can take place in the implementation of works, not in the way we are now witnessing when the whole process needs to be re-elected, which means extending the timing of the investment, but also in many cases. As regards the acceleration of these works in the energy rehabilitation of buildings in this area, there have been several activities in the past year. We're doing them now, too. In the Ministry, approximately €80 million has been earmarked in the past for the energy rehabilitation of hospitals, nursing homes, schools and other public-owned facilities. At the conclusion of the call for a €52 million call for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by municipalities and will be fully dedicated to the energy rehabilitation of these buildings and the use of renewable energy sources, we are also ahead of the publication of the call for approximately €55 million in grants from the European Cohesion Policy, which will be aimed at energy rehabilitation of schools, kindergartens and health homes in the municipalities. In addition, we are changing the regulation, in the part that talks about investment works. In the framework of the amendment to the Regulation setting out the types of individual works or works, we are significantly expanding the scope of works for which no authorisation is required, so that virtually all investment works occurring on buildings that do not directly interfere with the construction can be carried out in the framework of maintenance works, which will in some way also facilitate the process of the energy renovation itself, as well as all other services related to the maintenance and upgrading of individual buildings. The area of dwellings is largely linked to the proper regulation of these empty apartments and properties under the so-called bad bank. However, under the national housing programme [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] rent with a later redemption, for which it will be necessary to amend legislation, housing law and tax law, which would allow for a faster settlement of empty units and a later redemption, taking into account the rent payment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u316	Here you go, mag. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u317	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to discuss the subject of construction because it is very hot in Slovenia. Besides, there's only two things I'd like to mention. I'm sorry you can't answer and if you give me a written answer, I'm giving up this public debate on these two short questions. When talking to two construction workers today, I'd say it's a big problem. For the first time, these are the guarantees to be given when reporting to certain works. These new companies do not have this guarantee potential and are extremely difficult to obtain due to poor bank guarantees. That's why they start then, they say, in all these big projects, other investors, foreign investors, especially Strabag, and they explain that he has a bank owner in his portfolio. And he only goes to the other door to the office, gets this guarantee and the deal. Our subcontractors are then 50 % of the value of that price and probably not good for Slovenian construction, but finally for our economy. Second, it's project funding. Some, very few banks, say two banks have introduced project financing and the other banks have not. It's kind of a dead end, it's for two bank accounts. One for the tides, one for the tides. And if this were to be introduced more quickly in our banks, then these construction companies could also be involved in public procurement or demand, projects and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u318	Thank you very much. It's a matter of procedure, Your Honor. Stepmaster, it is not exactly the rules of procedure, but you yourself have said that you are withdrawing from the request for a debate if the Minister gives you a written answer regarding questions. He's the one who wrote it down, and Mr. Secretary is nodding to hear this. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your cooperation, for your presence, the President of the Government, the Minister, and I thank the ministers for their answers. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 30 January 2013, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
