ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Iva Dimic from 12 noon onwards, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mr Stefan Tisel and Mr Ivan Vogrin. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 20. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S ON DEFINITIVE 18. REPRESENTATIVE REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA IN THE YEAR 2012 The 18th periodic report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. On this occasion, I give the floor first to the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Janko Weber, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the first days of July, I handed over the 18th report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the President of the Government. The State Council of the Republic of Slovenia is then 18. 9. 2013 supported the Ombudsman's efforts and his proposals and recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and proposed that they be taken into account as far as possible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 3. Ten. 2013 submitted its response report to our annual report as well as information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly at the time of consideration of the previous 17-year report. The comprehensive review of the report was 4. Ten. 2013 to our home Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities under the chairmanship of Ambassador Eva Irgl. Today, I thank the National Assembly for its extremely rapid consideration of the Ombudsman's extensive report for last year, 2012, with another consideration at the beginning of the year, January, for 2011. With the Deputy and three Deputys, I took over immediately after taking office, as this is a report on the work of the Ombudsman Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik. We are in an extremely important year when we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Law on the Ombudsman. Next year, ending with the anniversary of the operation of the first Magi Ombudsman. Biziak, we would like to review the implementation of all the Ombudsman's recommendations so far. Only then will there be a clear path of protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia and guidance for the third decade of the Ombudsman's operation. Although statistics are not the only indicator of work, it is not possible to overlook the 3722 cases dealt with last year, which represents a 21% increase. For various reasons, especially because of the crisis situation, we are also following this year the trend of increasing both initiatives and calls that have already reached the entire level of last September. There has also been an increase in out-of-seas operations, which is of exceptional importance to the Ombudsman. The law requires me to report to the respected assembly on work, findings, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and on the legal security of citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. I can find out, and I wrote this in the introduction to the report that the rule of law is this moment, today, this year for a great trial, because many people in Slovenia are also in violation of their rights to effective remedies. The rights of people in Slovenian courts are still not always judged within a reasonable time frame despite truly tangible progress. The principles of good governance are not respected. The authorities of the State and the crisis relations are not always sufficient reason to adopt rules and laws across professions and civil society, and often by knowingly violating fundamental standards for the protection of human rights. The Ombudsman has repeatedly highlighted the longevity of administrative, in particular appeals, procedures in his annual reports, as well as the absence of an explanation of the duty of administrative authorities. Significant progress has not yet been seen in this area, but we certainly expect it. The social state is the principle of erosion. Social security is diminishing, including due to past mistakes in the country and the wealth of unstoppable greed for corruption, and the inadmissible and often unpunished place of social property. The laws adopted also define control mechanisms, but they are not effective enough or not working at all, and people are demanding it. If I focus on the 2012 report, the first three places among the initiatives under consideration are in the area of social security, judicial and police procedures followed and then constitutional rights initiatives followed. In the area of constitutional rights, we have dealt mainly with hate speech, and we have recommended to all those who participate in public debates, the media and the public at large that they do not promote hatred and intolerance on the basis of any personal circumstances. While it is essential to weigh between several human rights, also those to freedom of expression, which enjoys special protection in accordance with the established practice of the European Court of Human Rights. It should be stressed that the Ombudsman cannot judge — this is often expected of us — whether there are also signs of a crime in a particular case. There are a number of dilemmas related to hate speech in forums and the anonymity of authors. The Ombudsman recommended that the Government consider the possibility of publicly promoting hatred, violence or intolerance as an offence. The Ombudsman proposes that serious consideration be given to the possibility of a civil penalty or compensation for unjustified interference with privacy through public publication. In the area of electoral law, we have identified the absence of effective legal remedies and therefore the Ombudsman recommends that the Government examine the possibility of procedures for the approval of alternate members of municipal councils, in particular the judicial protection of candidates for alternate members in cases of inaction or obstruction of the mayor and other authorities of the municipality, and propose such amendments to the legislation that will prevent detected irregularities, abuse of electoral procedures and inefficiencies of legal remedies in the procedures for the election of representatives of local interests to the Council of State. In the area of privacy and personal data protection, we have found that the misuse of archival material also makes it possible to disregard the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. The Ombudsman has made a request to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives because it does not regulate the extradition and accessibility of materials from psychiatric institutions containing sensitive personal data on the treatment of individuals. The following is the area of discrimination, which calls attention to the need to establish an independent advocate who, in accordance with the EU acquis, will ensure that cases of violations of the prohibition of discrimination are dealt with impartially, effectively and independently in all areas. It is also recommended that an independent institution for the protection and promotion of human rights be set up to act on the basis of the so-called Paris principles. The report pays attention to national and ethnic minorities and to issues related to the Hungarian, Italian and Roma communities and to their specific rights in the Constitution. In particular, I would like to point out that the Ombudsman issued a special report on the living situation of Roma in the South-East Slovenia area. I expect the Government to develop a strategy to address this issue and to burden local communities and civil society. Situations in environments where the Roma community and the majority of the population share together threaten the realization of human and special rights of the Roma community, as well as the realization of human rights of the inhabitants of these communities. We have found a violation of the right of access to drinking water and sanitation. Local communities, authorities and the State are obliged to take measures to address these violations. We believe that the State must not avoid being held responsible for the elimination of human rights violations when the local community fails. I am moving on to the area of restrictions on personal freedom, where we have dealt with the initiatives of detainees, convicts, as well as some juveniles from the educational home. There will be spatial distress in some institutions, their overcrowding. It shall take care of the report on the lack of financial resources and also of professional staff. When we speak of persons deprived of their liberty, we cannot go beyond the role of the Ombudsman as a special state preventive mechanism. Following the Act on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Punishment or the conduct of guardians in cooperation with non-governmental organisations and experts, it shall monitor places where people are deprived of their liberty or of their limited movement and other tasks under the mandate. We made 46 visits, of which 37 were unannounced. This year we are chairman of Southeast Europe, which is certainly a recognition of our work so far. In June 2012, we welcomed an open unit for forensic psychiatry in Maribor, which was also established on the Ombudsman's initiative. We have dealt with persons with mental disabilities, persons in social security institutions, as well as with special protective measures in health and social institutions, and have pointed out the implementation of the educational measure of the training institution. In these areas we still find human rights violations. In the area of justice, we have highlighted two major problems: judicial backlogs and quality of trial at first instance. The trial within a reasonable time is one of the fundamental human rights. On the other hand, we have drawn attention to the problems of judicial experts and free legal aid, which for many because of a few square metres of land or a few euros is too unavailable and necessary for them. We have also paid a lot of attention to enforcement problems and the free choice of enforcement assets, regardless of the level of the creditor's claim. In view of the initiatives taken, we have also encountered violations, the amendment of the Law on Offences, the replacement of the fine with tasks of general benefit, as well as the decision on the requirements for judicial protection, where human rights must be respected. There was no delay in the prosecution's work, which was encouraging, but we wondered about an effective remedy for the injured person in the event of a disagreement with the decision of the state prosecutor. We considered that each investor should receive at least the first response to its first role, especially if the case in the prosecution is archived and ad act given. Although the number of initiatives has decreased in the field of lawyering, there is still evidence of non-disclosure, non-refoulement of documentation, as well as payment of costs and accounts contrary to oral agreement. Disciplinary procedures are still too long. Many instigators were also disappointed with the insurance company’s responses, which often rejected claims for compensation. There were no initiatives in the area of notariat, and future changes to this regime must further increase the legal certainty of users. There was no increase in initiatives in the area of police procedures. The police have carried out many activities to demobilize procedures and relieve the work of police officers, which is essential. We have been monitoring police action in protests at the end of 2012 and have pointed out the duty of appropriate action, but consistent respect for the dignity of the detainees. The police have always responded to the Ombudsman's recommendations, which have focused on consistent respect for human rights. I'm moving to administrative matters. The practice of a number of public administrations has become a failure to respect deadlines. In our recommendation to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Public Administration, we have proposed that it be ensured that all public sector bodies comply with the provisions of the Administrative Regulation and comply with their explanatory duty within 15 days. Similarly, the said Ministry should establish levers to respect all instructions in decisions in the administrative procedure. We have discussed initiatives relating to procedures relating to the acquisition of rights from public funds, as well as to the slow and ineffective conduct of inspection procedures. We have highlighted the issue of foreign citizens, the area of international protection and the elimination of free legal aid for applicants for international protection. The process of denationalisation remains open, and we do not see any reason for this process to finally end. There is also no consistent compliance with the deadlines for deciding on complaints in the field of taxes and customs. Some unresolved property matters with the congregations are in the eyes, as individuals have allowed public roads or roads to pass through their land, and the congregation does not provide a dose to the affected, does not offer compensation, or is very low. The correction of the injustices also referred to the application of the ZUJF. The Constitutional Court has confirmed our arguments that some have established Articles 143 of the ZUJF in contravention of the Constitution. We have applied for a constitutional assessment as soon as it has been implemented on the basis of the initiatives of many associations and pension societies, as well as more than 250 bitter individuals. The Constitutional Court has repealed the non-constitutional provisions of the ZUJF. I reiterate the consequences of unacceptable regulatory changes and the financial consequences of non-constitutional acts. Just think, honourable Members and Members, how long they have spent and will be dealt with by various bodies, to decide on the complaints lodged, without having to mention in particular the lost time and impact and dignity of individuals and their families. We have discussed the issue of regulating war and hidden graves, where there is a lack of funds and therefore the work of the government commission has been suspended. We'll have to solve the problems. The Ombudsman in this area proposes that the Government provide adequate financial resources for the detection of hidden war and post-war graves, and that appropriate symbolic burial of the victim, memorial signs and access of the relatives of the victims to the burial site have already been discovered. In the field of social activities, we have dealt with both pre-school education and higher and higher education, standards and standards changes, and also with the reduction of resources for higher education and science. We have proposed that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in possible integration, closure and other reorganisations of secondary schools, and in reducing the entry points, should carry out these procedures on the basis of objective analyses, involving all interested parties, in particular transparent ones, so that there is no public perception of arbitration and the neglect of certain regions in education. We encourage all competent authorities to make very thoughtful and responsible changes in the field of education, science and sport and to have far-reaching consequences for possible early decisions. With many non-governmental organisations in the field of environment and space, we wonder what land we will leave to the craftsmen and whether capital really has an advantage over health. Public participation in environmental and spatial interventions, regulated award of concessions, consistent work of inspection services, recognition of noise, smell and pollution with dangerous PM10 particles is essential. The criteria for determining the order of treatment of the individual application or the priorities of the part of the inspection shall be clearly laid down. In the area of the municipal economy, the largest initiatives were due to the payment and cost of services for the provision of individual municipal services, as well as the exercise of the chimney service and the right to water as a universal human right. It is necessary to amend the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemeteries. Unfortunately, people have lost confidence in the country and those institutions that have powers, powers and responsibilities. The social situation is getting worse. Housing matters are closely linked to the property situation and social situation of the individual. It is necessary to regulate the housing policy of the State and the municipalities and to adopt a national housing programme. It will still be a violation of the rights of tenants of denationalised dwellings and a failure to respect the findings of the European Social Rights Committee at the Council of Europe. In the field of labour relations, we have considered non-payment of salaries, non-payment of social security contributions, suffering, harassment, bullying, volunteering, agency workers' chains, pensions and scholarships. Among other things, we have requested that the conditions for the operation of the work-providing agencies and the entry into the records of the competent ministry be tightened. Inspection should be strengthened and offenders punished more severely. The Public Finance Balance Act has been, and is, in part, in the Constitutional Opinion, which shows that all possible consequences, in particular in practice and in the issuance of all sub-laws that normally come with too long a delay, should be foreseen before amending legislation affecting human rights. There is still no new health legislation. It is essential to include the interested professional public and service users in the proposed solutions. I cannot overlook the growing financial and economic crisis, which is changing legislation and, as a result, shows an increasing risk to people. The Ombudsman constantly points to the rights of the socially weak, from children to the elderly. An active employment policy is essential, a faster response to the needs of the unemployed and those who still have jobs, the preparation of programmes that will ease the growing increase in social transfers, which represent the elimination of many fires. It is necessary to invest in development and knowledge, and to give priority to man and to the quality of his life. For man is our only wealth, not the financial institutions that are this instant cancer wound our society. In this area, we are pleased with all the positive responses of the ministry to alleviate the crisis. Our society and its progress will not be without children who must not share the fate of parents who cannot spend the month without the assistance of the state and charities. We've paid attention to all their children, all their problems. We also had a conference on this subject and also drew attention to the child in the media. We're in the month we recorded, and so I conclude, the day of the elderly, the week of the child, the day of the fight against human trafficking, the day of the white rod. All vulnerable people deserve attention. Thank you very much for your attention. Marie Curie wrote: "They taught me that the path of progress is not easy and not short, but I will faithfully follow it with my fellow workers." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation given to the report. We continue the debate with the Commission's report on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, which considered the report as a parent labour force and also prepared a proposal for this report. I give the floor to Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable guardian of human rights, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 14th meeting, the Commission considered the 18th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2012 for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. The representative of the proposer, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, provided an additional explanation for the report in which she introduced his structure and statistics, cooperation with NGOs and field visits. The highest number of cases in 2012 was in the area of social security, followed by judicial and police procedures and constitutional rights. In the context of the hate speech, many comments were made regarding the insult of the religious feelings of citizens. At the same time, it stressed the important role of detection and prosecution bodies. The Ombudsman also recommends exploring the possibility of publicly promoting hatred, violence or intolerance being penalised as an offence. She pointed out the potential for misuse of archival material, which would also allow non-compliance with the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Materials and Archives. The Ombudsman also points out that the Office for Equal Opportunities has been abolished and that the Interdepartmental Working Group on Human Rights has been disbanded. She responded to initiatives concerning letters that insult the Hungarian national community and also focused her attention on the living situation of Roma in south-eastern Slovenia, disability issues, children's rights and everything else, as she has already discussed in the introduction today. The representative of the Council of State briefly presented the Council's written opinion on the report, which he considered to be transparent and well structured with the recommendations and proposals made. Among other things, he touched on the areas of election of representatives of local interests to the Council of State or the lack of legislation that does not prevent local authorities from using electoral practices. He also drew attention to lengthy and complex procedures for the categorisation of municipal roads, to the right to be tried within a reasonable time frame in the field of social security, judicial and police proceedings. In a short presentation, the representative of the Ministry of Justice stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is considering the Ombudsman's reports and appreciates his work. The ministries and government services are responding to the infringements. The government’s response report to the Ombudsman’s 2012 regular annual report presents concrete responses to the cases under consideration and proposals for the implementation of the recommendations. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities stressed that the Ministry is trying to respond to people's difficulties in the light of the current situation and is working with the Ombudsman whose recommendations have been thoroughly examined. By means of various forms of assistance, they are trying to help people in social distress, explaining that more European funds will be made available. A representative of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, a representative of the Supreme Court and a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for nationality, then spoke. In the discussion below, the members and members of the Commission gave their views and conclusions on the content of the report, to which individual representatives of the institutions invited to the meeting also responded. Among other things, it has been said that some of the Ombudsman’s findings continue to be repeated. Among other things, the debaters touched on the ethics of the public word. In this context, the Ombudsman's recommendation to the public debates constitutes a continuation of the warnings that have already been transmitted, for example, by the European Commission to combat racism and discrimination. Among other things, the debate also drew attention to the non-response of some authorities. The word was about tolerance for those who thought differently, about violations of the right to a healthy environment. The area of economic crime in connection with human rights violations has also been highlighted. Attention was also paid to the five victims of postwar beatings and to the relevant group memorial markings, as well as to means of regulating hidden graves. In view of the current situation, there has also been talk of increasing unemployment and the social pressures of people. The member and members of the Commission voted on the proposal for a recommendation to the Ombudsman's report and adopted it by 6 votes in favour and none against. The text of the proposal for a recommendation was put to the vote in full with the preamble and explanation adopted by the members and members of the Commission. An integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission as a working body, and today it will also be addressed by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia welcomes and accepts the Ombudsman's recommendations for improvement and notes that despite the economic and financial crisis, ministries and government services are responsive and committed to the resolution of violations. The Government's opinion presents concrete responses to the cases raised by the Ombudsman and proposals for the implementation of the recommendations, which are also partly covered by the measures already taken to implement the recommendations of last year's report. Let me introduce a few concrete responses briefly. There has been an agreement between the judiciary and the executive, which contains concrete measures and obligations both between the judicial and executive branches of government with a view to shortening judicial proceedings and ensuring a reasonable period of time. The administrative authorities also actively seek to speed up the resolution of administrative procedures and to respect the decision-making deadlines. In order to rationalise and improve the decision-making and functioning of inspection services, work of certain authorities has been reorganised or even merged into single services, such as the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection. Solutions are being drawn up to better regulate the institution's advocate of the principle of equality. The Interdepartmental Commission on Human Rights has been re-established. The Ministry of Justice is actively addressing the problem of prison overcrowding and the general improvement of prison conditions. In preparation, the Law on free legal assistance aims at simplifying and expediting the procedure for obtaining free legal aid and the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of enforcement procedures. A new proposal for a family code is already in preparation, taking full account of the benefits of children. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse has been ratified. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall endeavour to ratify as soon as possible the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN Conventions on Enforced Disappearances and the Council of Europe Conventions on Violence against Women. In order to protect the Roma community, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will organise a public debate as a starting point for the drafting of a new law on the Roma community. The newly adopted Labour Relations Act and the amendment of the CFPIPP strengthens certain rights and the situation of workers in cases of infringements by employers. In December 2012, a new law on pension and disability insurance was adopted to fully implement the Constitutional Court’s decision. The Ministry of Health is preparing a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, a new Law on Patients' Rights and three new laws – Health Act, the Law on the Abduction and Transplantation of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment and the Law on Medicinal Products. Measures are being prepared to simplify and accelerate procedures for the issue of water licences, measures to improve air quality and regulation of the waste management area. The ministries have taken concrete action to implement the Ombudsman's reports, while at the same time clarifying which recommendations they may disagree with or assess that they are satisfactorily regulated in positive law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Guardian, her Deputy, Minister and Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Ombudsman's report is always a moment for the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to reflect on the state of human rights in Slovenia. Judging from the 18th report of the Ombudsman, we need to find the sad fact that the number of posts in the Ombudsman is increasing. This is not surprising in view of the situation in which we are living when social pressures are on the rise, as well as the dissatisfaction of people with social and political conditions. When I talk about the state of human rights in Slovenia, I also wonder which institutions are those that need to watch over the realization and protection of human rights. The Constitution and the Constitutional Court are certainly in the first place. In this regard, in particular, I should like to stress that the Social Democrats have requested that, when amending the referendum legislation, it remains explicitly stated that the referendum cannot be signed if a referendum decision interferes with human rights. Then there's an advocate of the principle of equality. As the guardian of human rights, we consider the entire justice system and, last but not least, the commission to petition the National Assembly. When we look at it at European level, it is certainly the Council of Europe, the ECRI – the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the European Centre for Human Rights in Vienna, the Commission on Petitions in the European Parliament, and as the crown of all this – the European Court of Human Rights. Let us add to this the Organization of United Nations, international institutions, conventions, human rights instruments. If we were to look at what mechanisms exist to protect human rights, then the number of human rights violations should be reduced. Unfortunately, this world is not nice to people, and violations are often so drastic in the world that they also take human lives. I must not forget the specialized international institutions that classify countries on the scale of respect for human rights. It is also worth mentioning here that every time an index of human development measures in particular non-discrimination in public affairs. If we review all of this, when foreign eyes see us as the most common problems Roma are experiencing, deleted, tenants in denationalized apartments, judicial backlogs, and could also talk about individual cases dealt with in front of institutions. Therefore, it is not irrelevant who Slovenia is delegating to individual European institutions, and the Social Democrats were not satisfied with the selection of representatives and representatives to ECRI and the Vienna Centre for Human Rights. This is because in Slovenia there are competent individuals who have proved themselves in their fight against human rights violations and have not been given the opportunity to operate in international institutions. Among all the problems which Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer stated in the supplementary explanation, clearly and systematically, I should particularly touch on the issue of the ethics of the public word. Other areas will be touched by my colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that the most important case in 2012 was indeed in the field of social security, judicial and police procedures and constitutional rights, that the Ombudsman’s Office assessed, for 25% of the initiatives under consideration, that they were justified. This is an extremely high percentage of the rationale for initiatives. It's not just a claim that can't be proved with anything. When I mention constitutional rights and in particular the ethics of the public word, the violation of the ethics of the public word appears to be an increased problem for several years in a row. The number of initiatives taken in this area has increased sharply in 2012 – from 353 initiatives to more than 3 times, and the index is 330. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the number of new initiatives in the field of ethics has increased, as has been said, in all recent years. However, it should also be added at the same time that there is such a significant increase in initiatives at the expense of multiple hearings or complaints at the same time. In particular, it is those matters which the investors of the initiatives consider to be harmful to their feelings and therefore require a response from the state authorities. Let me recall that there is in principle agreement in the National Assembly for the adoption of an ethical code, whose recommendations would also lay down ethical principles that should be followed by Members and Members in their duties as Members. It is much more worrying, however, that the SDS Group, during its recommendations, has proposed that the Ombudsman's recommendation should leave the very part that calls for respect for the ethics of the public word, in particular the holders of political functions. Especially is it to draw attention to hate speech. In doing so, we reiterate that every other position that the addressee cannot accept is not yet an hate speech, and that there has been a great deal of concern in recent times when it comes to adopting different views, which is also affecting the freedom of artistic creation. Unjustifiable interventions into privacy and public publication were mentioned. Here, too, we need to count on everything that can be detected in the media. We attach to the Ombudsman that even in the leadership of RTV Slovenia we should consider the more precise powers of the watcher and listener's rights. The RTV management ensures that this will happen. Now I'm going to touch on just one more question or one more problem, that's the problem of discrimination. Inequality or discrimination has been most noticeable in the past year in reducing pensions under the Public Finance Balance Act. The fact is that the Ombudsman here has demonstrated his response and has submitted an application to the Constitutional Court for a constitutional review, which has also been successful. It has achieved an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 143 of the ZUJF, suspension and absolute priority treatment of this requirement. For years, the Ombudsman has pointed out that the legal framework and institutional mechanisms for eliminating discrimination are not appropriate and in line with the requirements of the European Union acquis. The latest report again recommended the adoption of legal solutions that will be in line with the acquis of the European Union and will ensure an impartial, independent and effective treatment of cases of infringements of the prohibition of discrimination on all grounds and in all areas. Following the Ombudsman's recommendation, it is therefore necessary to establish an independent advocate who would have the power to investigate cases of violations of the prohibition of discrimination and to sanction violations in both the public and private sectors. This work, the private sector, cannot be covered by the Ombudsman. For 2012, the Ombudsman notes not only that the Government and the National Assembly have not taken this recommendation into account but that the situation has worsened. The Office for Equal Opportunities has also been abolished among government offices, under which an advocate of the principle of equality has also acted, which has drowned after reorganisation in the services of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. This problem has already been brought to Slovenia's attention in the European Union. In this regard, the Ombudsman also received a letter from the President-in-Office of the European Association of Anti-Discrimination Bodies. On 20 December 2012, this letter was addressed to the Home Ministry, which draws attention to the insufficient operational capacity of the Advocate and to his structural and financial independence. In July this year, the government re-established the Inter-Resort Commission on Human Rights, as the Ombudsman also pointed out. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, in response to the Member's oral question, replied that the Ministry was preparing a law on counsel. I am aware that we do not have a Member or an individual government to look at this issue in the same way, but the response of this government, despite the poor economic situation, shows, however, that steps have been taken to improve the situation. Speaking of discrimination, the question of the Roma community should certainly be mentioned, namely to invest both sides of the problem, both the Roma community and the non-Roma environment, which requires a different treatment in the allocation of funds for the regulation of irregular Roma settlements and the absorption of European funds. Allow me to finally answer the question that I initially asked myself and saved it for the end — what is the power and effectiveness of the guardian’s work? Many times less than what people expect because the guardian does not have executive powers. However, when we weigh whether the Law on the Ombudsman should be amended after 20 years in the direction of increasing jurisdiction, in this direction, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is not because it is necessary to ensure the independence of this institution. We believe that over the course of 20 years, it has strengthened its reputation that people are increasingly responding to the Ombudsman, but that luckily, the executive branch of power is also increasingly responsive. Last but not least, the Borut Pahor's government adopted the Ombudsman's report for the first time and the Ombudsman, then Dr Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, presented the report to the government. Last year this tradition was interrupted, but this year Vlasta Nussdorfer Vladi presented the 18th report. The presence of the ministerial team and State secretaries shows that it is possible to promise that the recommendations of the Ombudsman in the 18th report will also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian with co-workers, Minister, Minister, other representatives of the Government, Members and Members! That our country is not only in the great financial crisis, but also in the social and moral crisis, it is eloquently clear that the Ombudsman Institute dealt with 3,722 cases in 2012. This information alone does not say much, but if we know that 21% of the cases have been dealt with more than a year ago, this information is worrying. As the guardian lady said on the committee, this trend in this year in which we live has unfortunately not changed – quite the contrary. Although luckily, we can still claim that we are still a social and even a just country, without any major concern, but that such a long-standing period is also increasingly interfering with the protection of human rights. The Ombudsman's annual report details more precisely the specific areas in which violations of rights occur. I would not specifically list them because the Ombudsman described them precisely, but the actual weight and obligation are the Ombudsman's proposals and recommendations for remedying the situation. In particular, I would like to welcome the Ombudsman's announcement or thinking so that, on the second anniversary of the Ombudsman's 20th anniversary, we can review all the proposals and recommendations that have been put forward so far. Such a document could be an excellent starting point for determining the actual performance of all stakeholders concerned by the Ombudsman's reports. We now have the feeling that most recommendations are repeated year after year, but over the years it is not possible to monitor actual long-term deviations. We can only compare two consecutive years. Thus, such a report covering 20 years could be an accurate analysis of the longer term and would allow for a real insight into the effectiveness or failure of the authorities to address the shortcomings. Since we are primarily responsible for the protection of human rights, I would like to present the position of the Civil Gazette on this issue. In fact, I'm going to repeat what I said on the 2011 report. What do we look forward to in this field in the National Gazette? We are committed to promoting common human and social values. We advocate the right of every individual to freedom of conduct and development. This freedom can only be limited to the rights of others. We also advocate respect for diversity, freedom of speech, respect for different worldly and religious views. Among the values that we value highly in the National Gazette are tolerance, tolerance in dialogue, tolerance in conduct. We see this value as the most civilized and democratic form of communication with others, including those who think otherwise. We also appreciate the responsibility. In particular, I stress the responsibility of all those who decide, because we have to take responsibility for our decisions. These values, as well as others, are also addressed in various areas by the Ombudsman's report. In the Civil Gazette, we support the recommendation of the National Assembly, which instructs all institutions and officials at all levels, including Members and Members, to take into account or take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the annual report. Finally, let me add that we appreciate and support the work of the guardian with a team that keeps on the watch, alerts, and solves the hardships in which people find themselves. In practice, the Institute of the Ombudsman is seen as one of the most genuine links between the levers of power and those people who, due to various factors, have been violated by fundamental human rights. Madam Ombudsman, in the Civil Gazette, we want the 2013 report to be more encouraging than it was this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u12	That's a nice hello, Mr. President. Madam Ombudsman with colleagues, ministers with other co-workers and co-workers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues! 18th periodic report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012 – distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I do not even know where to start. This is not only the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for last year. I would call it a more sad book, which contains the written horrors experienced by our citizens due to the unfortunately wrong government policies and so-called government measures for many years. If I start at the beginning, where the Ombudsman wrote: "The rule of law is on a great test, because many times the rights to effective remedies are violated." This is where we have to freak out. "People's rights in Slovenian courts are not always judged within a reasonable time." Regarding the social state, she wrote: "The social state is the principles of erosion, social security is declining, also due to past mistakes in the management of the country and the wealth of unstoppable greed, corruption, and unacceptable and many times unpunished places of social property." All this, he says, is based in this report on data for last year and data by May of this year when the report was being prepared. Or otherwise: we are in such a position because of the tycoons, in one word, because of those who stole the country, the thieves who stole the property of the Slovenian state. This report also shows that we have just those who warn that we are living in a society that is experiencing a crisis of values because greed has prevailed in this corrupt society. Dear representatives of the government, the government coalition, I ask you how long you will keep your eyes closed before the real situation in the country. This today is not a report from the opposition, but a report from the Ombudsman. Therefore, the government coalition should read this report more thoroughly, sit together and decide whether it is capable of stepping on this crime if it is not, and make it clear that it simply cannot. He knows what's behind it. Are you not touched by the words of the guardian who already wrote in the introduction: "As we find that the growing problems of people, those who struggle to survive, are on the brink of social events, are powerless, indignant, humiliated and tired." Even in some of the views of Members and Members of the parliamentary groups this week, I have heard just this about the grief, humiliation and fatigue of people from the journey from the institution to the institution, where the Jernei as servants should seek their rights. Unfortunately, the social conscience of Slovenian author Ivan Cankar is no longer just a conscience, but a reality in which there is a conflict between property rights and the right to work. Much of Slovenian citizens do not understand how such injustice can be done, but no one sees it or does not want to see it. I must also make it clear in this place that those who work honestly, respect the rights of workers, pay taxes, should be given a prize today, especially in order to separate the seeds from the weeds. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I sincerely hope that when people know who is pushing them into distress, they will also know how to separate the seeds from the weeds. The Ombudsman also wrote: "The report will certainly draw the attention of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who proposes to the National Assembly to elect either a candidate or a candidate for a guardian or a guardian of human rights." I hope that the President of Borut Pahor, who was also the Prime Minister recently, will ask how in his time the country's debt of EUR 7 billion would affect the chapter of the work relationship, the failure to pay for the work done – and there was much talk at the time about job conservation – how these 7 billion affected the problem of volunteering in the public sector, the scholarships, the response of the judicial authorities, what with the health reform, where these 7 billion are seen here, how with unemployment. When preparing and spending 7 billion when the current Prime Minister was Prime Minister, someone was the Director of the Directorate for the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The same person today is the President of the Slovenian Government. I hope that this touches her, too, and she'll wonder what we did when our boat goes. If we look at the area of labour relations, the key content they dealt with, unpaid wages, non-payment of social security contributions, torture, harassment and harassment in the workplace, forcing employees to enter into business in their own organisational form, problems of agency workers, failure of inspection procedures and so on. Again, these are not the words of the opposition, but the quotations from the Ombudsman's report. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have the only tool to repeat this clearly and loudly and to say it. Maybe something will ever touch anyone. The Ombudsman reiterates his proposal to the Government to take all measures to ensure that the procedures in the supervisory institutions are carried out quickly and that they are completed within a reasonable time frame and to propose the redeployment of public servants. Respectable coalition, will you heed the guardian's opinion? If we're talking to you from the opposition about these things, you're saying we're guessing. Will you continue to talk about headless savings and new taxes? I suggest that all those who talk a lot about new taxes read chapter 2.13 of Social Affairs, where the first paragraph states that the number of social protection initiatives has increased, resulting from the growing financial and economic crisis. "The data show that the social problem is further deepening, and the state's unwillingness to take all the measures it is taking in a timely and effective manner," the report states, adding: "The incomes of the most socially weak have already been below the minimum of living, and therefore these people cannot be considered as someone who must contribute to the improvement of the economic situation in society by tightening the belt." Most likely, they tightened their belts before or before the economic crisis began for them, with the collapse of businesses and tycoon greed. Further tightening can be afforded to those who still have certain reserves, not to those who are more marginalized every day because of poverty. With those who took the assets out in billions of euros. Here is our task, both the Government, the National Assembly and the Third Branch of Power, to finally step on these. A lot of legislation is in the right direction and is ready, but unfortunately it is not being implemented. You don't believe us in the opposition. On the question of what the guardian thinks about new taxes – I think the report has been clear enough. Equally clear is the Ombudsman in the area of unemployment, where the work of the competent authorities is very questionable, since the Ombudsman recommends to the Government that she analyse, inter alia, the effectiveness of the services of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. On page 259, when I read the long-term decision of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs concerning complaints against the decision of the Slovenian Employment Institute, I could not believe that such a thing existed with us. The Ombudsman was contacted by an instigator who was deleted from the unemployment register by a decision of the Slovenian Employment Office. He appealed against the decision, which the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs had not decided on for two and a half months after his case had been resolved. When the initiator asked when he could expect a decision, he learned that there were many outstanding complaints and that they did not know when it would be his turn to deal with them. The instigator will be able to re-register the unemployed six months after the decision has been finalised. So far, it says, the decision is still pending. This means that he has not yet begun a six-month re-trial procedure in order to be able to register. That's why I'm not surprised by the record, I think yesterday in Finance, wondering where are the 70,000 unemployed who are deleted from the records. Instead of 120 thousand as officially showing statistics, we have about 180,000 unemployed people. So it saddens me that it is true that over 270,000 people are below the poverty threshold, that 120,000 are socially excluded. All these new taxes cannot and will not survive the tightening of the belt. Your Honor! I read in the report that the guardian once a year organised an informal meeting with journalists and media editors under the title Malica with the media. Perhaps the guardian should consider having lunch with representatives of the government, because they obviously do not understand the plight of a small man, because if they understood him, they would not have proposed such a budget and new taxes. It is sad and shameful for Slovenia, and especially for the Government, that we are at what stage we are going to. That is why in the Slovenian People's Party we fear reports from the Ombudsman for the following year. What is the power of the Ombudsman? Just a public word. What is the power of the opposition? Just a public word. What is the power of the coalition and the judiciary? Unlimited. Are they taking advantage of her? I'm afraid not. What do we have left? The opposition and the Ombudsman are left with only perseverance and a call in public. Can anyone else help us? I wonder if it's God who can turn all this around. I'm afraid neither is he.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Guardian Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer, Honourable Deputy Ombudsman, Honourable Minister and Minister, Honourable Secretary of State Mrs. Tina Brecelj and distinguished other members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, everyone's welcome! The protection of human rights in times of economic crisis in all parts of the world is often an unappreciative task. The country's drying financial capacity directly and indirectly affects the enjoyment of civil and political human rights as well as economic, social and cultural rights. The work of the Ombudsman has become increasingly difficult in times of economic crisis, which seems to be increasingly showing off its teeth, and in terms of maintaining human dignity, it has become more and more sensitive. As a result of rising unemployment and resulting greater poverty, people feel humiliated and disgraced. They often find themselves in a hopeless situation, which our legislation certainly contributes to. Let me give you an example that the guardian also draws attention to in the introduction of her report. People are not entitled to free legal aid because they own a few square metres of inherited land from which they have no special benefit but cannot be sold or surrendered. Some for a trifle go beyond the price that free legal aid is available to them, but they are heavily indebted and simply cannot afford legal aid. The Ombudsman's report reflects the real picture of our society today: mobileising in the workplace, suffering and harassment, non-payment of social security contributions, the position of agency and foreign workers, hate speech, the longevity of the proceedings before the courts, discrimination and so on. In doing so, I would particularly like to highlight the situation of the most vulnerable groups of the population, who often cannot fight for their own rights. These are older children, especially those children with special needs. Recently, the case of an aggressive child has drawn attention to the fact that in our country for 20 years we have not been able to establish a section in the form of a crisis accommodation centre where we would properly diagnose and treat children with mental disabilities. These children are hospitalized in closed wards of psychiatric hospitals together with adult patients when it comes to uncontrollable conditions. In 2010, there were five children aged between 10 and 14 and 80 between 15 and 19 years of age. Such conduct is extremely inappropriate and extremely disturbing. By refusing appropriate professional assistance to these children, we deny these children an even small opportunity for normal adult life. I wonder what will have to happen if things actually move. Despite all the warnings, the situation of the elderly in our society continues to deteriorate visibly. Modesty pensions and restrictions on social transfers are increasingly being pressured into poverty and on the edge of society. For some time now, it has been noticeable that the occupation of home for the elderly has fallen. There are several reasons for this, and the most common is the inability to pay for home care services. As a result of the crisis, there are more and more cases of family members taking older ones out of their homes and then unable to provide them with adequate assistance and care at home. Most of the reasons for this are their poor material situation. In these days, older ones often find themselves in a situation where they have to decide whether to eat or warm or to pay the bills or land on the street as homeless people. After years of hard and honest work in the fall of life, they feel justified in being deceived, disappointed, and humiliated. Poor 30% of all pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 euros, which means that all of these pensioners live below the poverty line. At least part of the situation makes it easier for them to own 80 % of the property they live in. The introduction of real estate tax will further place the burden of crisis resolution on their shoulders. The ownership of their homes is priceless for the elderly, since they worked hard for this house in the vast majority and also gave up on many. The property tax, however, will cause these people and their homes to be unable to afford them any longer, thus taking away their last shred of dignity. In the DeSUS Group, we would also like to draw attention again to the growing violence against the elderly and often to disregard their will, as we pointed out in our Group last year. I'd talk more about it, and time won't let me. Many of the Ombudsman’s recommendations are repeated from year to year. Among such judges, for example, is the pedopsychiatric treatment of children and discrimination against the elderly. Clearly, in the areas mentioned above, we do not take the recommendations seriously enough, which means that we are beating the basic human rights of those affected in our country. In recent times, we have often used the crisis and the current state of our country as an excuse. I believe that the crisis must not be an excuse for not taking these problems seriously and not solving them as we should. The DeSUS Group supports the recommendation that all institutions and officials at all levels take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in the 18th periodic report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! This year, the Ombudsman's institution celebrates its full age and is looking at the 18th annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. How are we satisfied in Slovenia with the realization of human rights, or what are the areas that are emerging from year to year? Thus, for some residents, the Ombudsman remains the last resort to force, the last hope that something will move. The report provides an overview of the areas in which the rule of law is most repealed. There is an increasing sense among the inhabitants that we are not all the same before the law and that some, because of political and capital ties, simply nothing happens, are untouchable. From the extensive Ombudsman's report in New Slovenia, we will highlight freedom of conscience, an alarming social situation and unreasonablely long judicial proceedings. In a more detailed review of the report, we are concerned in New Slovenia that the biggest increase in initiatives is in the area of constitutional rights. The case of new cases in this area amounts to a good 175 % more than in 2011. In this category, there are examples of freedom of conscience and the ethics of public speech. In this regard, let us especially point out the rise in cases of religious pity. The Ombudsman's response to the re-increasing of the Cross in Strunjan is appropriate, as we have already warned Members of New Slovenia. The instigators felt that the cross was being set on fire as a crime of public incitement to hatred, violence, intolerance and expected action by the state authorities. The Ombudsman confirmed to the initiators and expressed his understanding that this action had caused them to regret religious sentiments and that the police and the prosecution would properly treat and act accordingly. In the response report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, we read that the police have considered the case as a suspicion of the crime of injuring foreign goods with the provisions of the Penal Code and as a suspicion of the offence of public incitement to hatred, violence or intolerance. On the basis of the notifications collected and the assessment that there is no basis for a criminal complaint, a report was sent to the competent state prosecutor's office. This April, the prosecution informed that there were no signs of a criminal offence. It would probably be interesting to know how many criminal suspicions in this area have been dealt with and how many sanctions have been sanctioned. It is likely that we have not come any further than mentioning the criminal provision in these years of the independent state. It grieves us that the competent institutions attach to the alleged artistic freedom that has in this case proved to be over freedom of conscience. The central Slovenian daily published the news of the re-increasing of the cross in the section Culture. Of course, it is an editorial choice, but people are far from blind that everything is allowed in the name of freedom. Is this art, how to get past freedom of conscience? We agree with the recommendation to examine the existing legislation in the light of the appropriateness of the remedy in the event of the prosecution’s rejection of a criminal complaint or the decision not to initiate criminal proceedings. The next chapter, which is already kind of a constant of the Ombudsman's reports, is the area of social security, where the most issues have been addressed. The Ombudsman's report reinforces the findings that Nova Slovenije has been pointing out for a long time. The new regime for the exercise of rights from public funds in force from 1 January 2012 and the so-called Svetlik Law have strongly infringed on the rights of the socially weak and have caused them exceptional difficulties in ensuring normal living conditions, especially for young children. An additional serious problem in this area has been the failure of the information system, which has significantly affected the rights of several individuals. Despite the Ministry's assurances that the problems have been resolved, this area needs to be closely monitored. A good week ago, we took note of a case where incomes that were not actually available were taken into account in the decision-making process. The applicants from public funds are usually people who are functionally illiterate, who are already having difficulty exercising the right, not only to complain, because the explanations in the decisions are still unclear to average citizens. It is totally unacceptable that the information system does not allow them another solution, even though the workers of the social work centres themselves have found the error, but have not removed it or have been warned by the parties. This imposes ever-new and new obligations on individuals, but a slight derogation already constitutes a loss of a certain right. The overall risk is identified both on the individual and with concern. Let me point out another example mentioned in the report from this town, namely the area of justice, where it took more than 15 years to complete the abandonment process. The instigator turned to the Ombudsman in the case of the District Court in Maribor, which had not been completed for more than 15 years. There were two other trials pending the completion of this procedure. The Court did not respond to the instigator's lawyer's warning. It is also extremely unacceptable in these circumstances that the Ombudsman’s reply, which justified the reasons for the long procedure, justified the fact that the case had been dealt with by several judges, that the procedure was complex and professionally demanding, that he himself had been absent for a long time and was overloaded by other priority cases due to the staffing difficulties of the Court. I wonder if this is a decent answer to someone whom the National Assembly appoints for our constitutional order for a permanent term of office. Can a permanent term be a silence for a week? We believe that the trial mandate of judges would speed up a number of trials. Unreasonably long procedures and indecisions of judges have a clear impact on the state budget. What is the state of justice and the general state of our rule of law, more than verbally, are the cases in the report. Let me conclude here that we will certainly be alerting Members of the New Slovenia in the next debate, including in relation to past history, to any other case that the Ombudsman's report does not contain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable ministers, ministers, members of the Government, respectable Lady Guardian of Human Rights with fellow workers! Initially, the 2012 Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia is a transparent, substantive and thematic piece of material, which is all the more important than the recognition of the institution since the replacement of the mandates of the former and the current Ombudsman has taken place. I would like to draw attention from the general introductory part to just two opinions or views of the Ombudsman. We also believe in our Group that its concern about the fact that to a certain extent the acquisition of a modern Slovenian country in the field of the protection of human rights is at risk, and that is why the rule of law is a major test. Secondly, it is very important that the Ombudsman unequivocally condemns all forms of public hatred and intolerance of a national, racial, religious or other nature and calls for more education and education activities to be discussed. Above all, public life actors must be exemplary in all areas, which is particularly important. Given the time available to me, I will focus primarily on the sub-chapter of the National and Ethnic Minority within the framework of the Discrimination Chapter. The report states that no initiatives were taken at the establishment of the Ombudsman in 2012 to establish a direct violation of the Constitution and the laws of guaranteed specific rights of indigenous national communities and their members. In doing so, we must point out, as they also mention in the report, that unfortunately such violations have occurred, as they have in previous years, but the affected do not most often inform the competent authorities and services. In our opinion, this is partly due to systemic inadequacies, since, several times in the past, organisations of indigenous national communities have warned about certain violations, there have been dilemmas, such as this, or the infringement of collective rights, in the context of the Ombudsman's action. There are also cases where, in the case of employment in jobs and functions where the language of indigenous national communities is prescribed, this condition is overlooked and a candidate who does not meet the conditions is selected. With regard to these and similar issues, there is no doubt that further expert discussions should be held in order to clarify possible systemic inconsistencies. The failure to inform the competent authorities and the Ombudsman by the affected members of the national communities can also be attributed to a certain degree to the psychological pressure of the members of the said communities, which is probably still based on certain negative stereotypes from the past when the repression on a national basis was not desirable. There may be other reasons. As mentioned in the report, and together with the competent national organisations, I myself have warned, in 2012 there was a constant hostile speech in the form of letters and e-mails, which were public or anonymous, at the expense of the Hungarian national community and its members as well as the Hungarians in general. The competent authorities have acted in this regard in most cases. There have also been some public convictions by representatives of state and local institutions, but unfortunately this negative trend is still present. It is a matter of concern that it may even be spreading a little. Such phenomena of impatience are also very pleased with the present difficult material and social situation in our society, which is even worse in the pomur region than the average level, and will need to be given even more attention in the coming period. Above all, we think of a more comprehensive and objective way of educating and informing the whole society about the lives and characteristics of national communities and other vulnerable minority groups and the values of coexistence in national mixed areas. In fact, intolerance on a national, racial or religious basis can most easily be prevented by correct approaches and programmes in the field of education and education, media and information activities in the broadest sense of the word – by creating even more suitable miles in terms of acceptance of differences. Finally, I believe that cooperation with the Ombudsman is important. It is necessary to improve, perhaps to consider its one-time participation annually at a meeting of the Commission for National Communities. Because I'm running out of time, let me just announce that we're going to give support to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mag. Lejla Hercegovac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u20	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Ombudsman, Honourable Ministers and Fellow Members, Dear Fellows and Fellow Members! The law provides that the Ombudsman shall, in his work, comply with the provisions of the Constitution and international legal acts on human rights and fundamental freedoms and shall be independent in his work. If we come from the fact that the Ombudsman is an independent, autonomous institution, we should never interfere with the Ombudsman's recommendations in terms of how we like them, which unfortunately we have witnessed in the past. I must therefore express my satisfaction today that the members and members of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities have fully supported the report and all reports of the Ombudsman for 2012. Among the most striking warnings from the report, I would first mention the ethics of the public word, because it concerns us Members and Members. The Ombudsman draws attention to the mass complaints concerning certain rebuttal issues or statements that offend the feelings of many and call for a response. It therefore seems important to me that there is a principle of agreement in the National Assembly for the adoption of an ethical code whose recommendations would lay down ethical principles that should be followed by Members and Members in their duties as Members. For many years, the Ombudsman has also pointed out the lack of a legal framework to eliminate discrimination and recommends the adoption of legal solutions to ensure impartial, independent and effective treatment of cases of violations of the prohibition of discrimination. Following the Ombudsman's recommendation, an independent advocate should be established. On the contrary, following the reorganisation of the state administration in 2012, in our opposition and opposition to many others, we experienced the abolition of the Equal Opportunities Office, within which the advocate of the principle of equality worked. That is also what the European Union is responding to. However, the Government re-established the Interresor Commission on Human Rights in July this year, as the Ombudsman also pointed out. The government has already reacted to numerous repeated warnings from the guardian. To mention just some: for example, the competent ministry has already prepared appropriate amendments to the legislation regarding the provision of work to the other user and the transmission of employment. The Commission also has the necessary amendments to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia to protect the Roma community in its work plan. Also in the area of equalization of opportunities for disabled persons and at the invitation of the Ombudsman to the Government for the early adoption of sub-legislative acts and measures in the response report of the Government, it follows that the amendment of legislation will be adopted this year. This year, the Ministry of Culture co-financed the completion of the Slovenian Sign Language Dictionary. The Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2014-2018 has already been adopted and includes many objectives for developing the contractual capacity in the Slovenian Sign Language. The Ombudsman does not for the first time point to the regulation of the possibility of owning archival material for public-law persons, especially the sensitive materials of psychiatric hospitals. According to the government’s response report, the Ministry of Culture has prepared appropriate amendments to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Next year, at the 20th anniversary of the Ombudsman's operation in Slovenia, we may consider all the recommendations issued so far, especially those still unfulfilled, I hope, and I wish that, in accordance with the ethics of the public word, we will work together to find solutions and we will not catch ourselves in a useless vicious circle of search for the culprit for unfulfilled work. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will fully support the proposal for a recommendation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the guardian and her team for their good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Guardian of Human Rights with a Deputy, Honourable Member, Honourable Members! As has already been said, we have before us the 18th regular annual report of the Ombudsman for 2012. As already explained in the introduction, the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, is this time acting as the guardian for the first time in the role of presenting a report, which, by the way, was produced under the auspices of the former Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenke Cebašek Travnik. However, before I focus on the very content of the report, let me explain that it is the role of the Ombudsman that is extremely important for the good functioning of the rule of law and, above all, the just state and society. It is the Ombudsman who is called upon to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to state authorities, local authorities and public authorities. The Ombudsman is the first person and authority in the country to take a constitutional decision in respect of respect for human rights. It must decide, on the basis of declarations and resolutions on human rights, on the basis of international acts, conventions, laws, and, by no means, on such sensitive issues as are most likely to affect human integrity and dignity, to decide or to judge politically. When he begins to judge his observations about human rights violations politically and not according to the principles of human rights protection, he should leave his position to someone else. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are of the view that the Ombudsman must also take a clear stand for current events if he realizes that they have been tested for human rights in any way. Why am I saying this? In the past, we have repeatedly observed that, even when the Ombudsmans were invited by various institutions, including the National Assembly, to identify certain issues of human rights violations, they have not done so. In our opinion, the Ombudsman must raise his voice when the rule of law is under test. The Ombudsman must raise his voice when the social state is under test. Today, there are many problems that stem from the social state's test. The Ombudsman must raise his voice when the right state is under test. Unfortunately, in the past, the Ombudsman did not always act in accordance with these principles, but all too often politically. The Ombudsman's annual report presents an important document on respect for and protection of human rights. The Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, notes in her introduction that in 25% of the initiatives coming to their title are assessed as justified. They add that this is a large proportion, given that the Ombudsman is only an additional means of protecting human rights and freedoms. The Ombudsman’s report each year describes the problems that individuals face when they feel they have been violated by human rights. They address the Ombudsman's office when they face the fact that the institutions of the State do not listen to them as much as they would like to. This problem is that certain institutions do not do their job well enough, we face, for example, the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, often after several hours, either we do not get certain answers or we get them in the late time frame. This problem is also faced by Members and Members, when we ask, say, questions to ministers. Some have waited four months for their answers. I understand you can't answer all the questions right away, but there are some deadlines that need to be followed. The non-response of some authorities is therefore worrying. We still have a slow response from inspection services, which the Ombudsman reminds us of year after year, even in the 2012 report. The answers of inspection services are often selfless and often contradictory. The duration of the proceedings and the failure to respond to the incentives shall be repeated. This raises the issue of prioritisation in the work of inspection services. Therefore, in this report, the Ombudsman considers that the criteria for determining the order of treatment should be laid down in the regulation, since transparency would only be ensured and confidence in the work of inspection services would be increased. We welcome this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we see this recommendation as good. The Ombudsman's report also proposes certain solutions that the Government and other institutions will consider each year, and we are also talking about these recommendations in the National Assembly. At the same time, the Ombudsman warns that many times, with their warnings, they run into deaf ears and that some of their recommendations are repeated year after year. We also observe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Ombudsman repeats several recommendations, even though they have already been implemented in legislation or in some other way. For this very reason, we have repeatedly proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party a package of our recommendations to the Ombudsman's annual report. Every year, the Ombudsman's report also shows us at least a partial picture of how patient society we are, how much tolerance we actually go to other thinkers, how much we really give to the protection and respect of human rights, and, above all, what our relationship as a society, as individuals, is to the weakest, most vulnerable groups. Through the Ombudsman's reports, we can see that people are in ever-increasing difficulties, especially social ones, especially today when the country is in a severe financial and economic crisis, as well as a crisis of values. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government of Alenka Bratušek, by its actions, is further interfering with and destroying the social state. As a result, it is even more incomprehensible that those who have barely survived are pushing to the brink of survival, including by enforcing a property tax, by increasing the prices of vineyards, by extra burdening families with multiple children in particular, to increase the prices of transport of children, and today citizens and citizens will have to pay more than one credit due to the government's decision to go into uncontrolled liquidation of two private banks. On the other hand, the government of Alenka Bratusek retains the privileges of some individuals through extremely high pensions. In Slovenia, there are many people who have been violated by human rights, who are in severe distress and need help, who have been warning about injustices for years and years, such as victims after World War II or individuals who have been alerting for many years to anomalies in the judicial system – more so later – or people who have been violated by the constitutional right to a healthy environment for years. Here we're talking, say, about noise, smell, pollution with dangerous PM10 particles. The Ombudsman notes that if we look only at the noise, there is an increasing number of disruptive noise initiatives every year. Problems arise because noise rules are only determined by measurements, and noise measurements are often carried out when there is no overrun. When we talk about smell from different sources, from composters, cleaning appliances, pig farms, turkey farms – I have also repeatedly warned about these things. Some years ago, even on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, we had a meeting on this subject and discussed this item on the agenda. This is also a common reason for initiatives and actions. This is particularly a reminder of the need for the adoption of a smell-emitting regulation into the environment, as no regulation governs this, which means that control is not possible as well. Problems also arise in the area of measurement of discharges, where regulations are established, but discharge measurements should be carried out by authorities who are totally independent of operators. The Ombudsman also notes in his report the issue of pollution with dangerous PM10 particles, particularly in the Mežiški valley, the Celje Valley and Zasavje. Improving air quality due to excess particles requires the measures already required by the European Commission, but has not yet been implemented in our space. Even the most recent studies, if we look at it, show that 90% of the European Union's citizens are exposed to the most powerful air pollutants, at levels that are highly harmful to health. The report, adopted by the European Environment Agency and published this week, shows that the two main pollutants are air, ozone and particulate matter, still cause respiratory problems and cause cardiovascular diseases and shorten life. New research also shows that already lower concentrations of air pollutants affect health. According to the 2011 Eurostat European Statistical Office, Slovenia has been contaminated with particulate matter at 10th in the European Union and ozone pollution at 3rd in the EU. All the information I have just said shows that the right to a healthy living environment at this time is particularly on trial and requires greater concern from all of us that the space in which we live is more secure, even due to future generations. The next topic I want to touch, draw attention to, is the area of justice. Also in the Ombudsman's 18th annual report, this time, the Ombudsman notes that the rule of law is on a major test, in particular because of the violation of the right to an effective remedy and the trial within a reasonable time. The Ombudsman also notes that the State should provide more quality and wider available free legal aid, which must be available to customers in a timely manner. Let me explain that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and probably others, are returning to us individuals who are not entitled to free legal aid, and this, as well as the Ombudsman, is described in her report, only because for a slightity they are exceeding the price to which free legal aid is still available, but because of the situation in which this country is located and because of personal hardship, even because they may be heavily indebted, they cannot afford legal aid. However, the government of Alenka Bratušek still raises the charges of court and further restricts access to justice and judicial protection for individuals. In the field of judicial proceedings, the Ombudsman dealt with 460 cases this year. Of these, they were most closely linked to civil and criminal procedures. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party receive various initiatives from individuals due to dissatisfaction with the functioning of the courts, the longevity of the judicial proceedings and doubts about the impartiality of the judges. Many initiatives also refer to the expectations of the initiators, following a substantive assessment by the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. In this regard, we need to explain to the initiator several times that we do not have the power to assess the regularity and legality of the judicial decisions taken and their content, and therefore explain to them what legal remedies are available to them. However, while we must not interfere with the judiciary as the legislative branch of power, I would like to explain that more and more people are reporting to us that they have been or are victims of judicial errors. Several meetings referred to the topic of judicial abnormalities, and I have explained several times that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have been drawing attention to the inefficiencies of the judicial system for many years to remind us of the longevity of bankruptcy and other proceedings. For many years, we have been opening up questions about the duration of the judicial mandate. What is most likely the most crucial at this time – we also open up questions about taking responsibility in the judicial and prosecutorial categories. We also point to strong solidarity when individuals in the judiciary protect each other, and this is usually why no one is responsible for mistakes. Let's just see a picture of the sanctions imposed on judges in Slovenia compared to some other European countries. We've said this a number of times, both from this town and from the bench. Comrade Gorenak once had a thorough analysis of the state of justice. But let me repeat some information again, because it's extremely important. The data show that Slovenia has three times as many judges and prosecutors as some other members of the European Union per 100,000 inhabitants, but that their effectiveness is significantly lower and there is little responsibility for errors in proceedings. In Italy, for example, 51 sanctions were imposed on judges in 2006 and 25 in Germany and only one sanction in Slovenia in the same period. That probably tells us something. That probably doesn't mean the judges are infallible. However, it appears that they do not accept responsibility or protect one another after a mistake has occurred. Here, allow me to remind myself, for example, of Foykar. I've mentioned it many times, and I'll probably do it again. This is a very tragic story, or, thank God, with a happy ending, but a story that confirms that the rule of law does not work as far as we should. Above all, this story confirms that no one answers due to procedural and substantive errors in the process. I have met several times, both as a Member of Parliament and as President of the Commission on Human Rights, with Mr Fojkar, who entrusted me with his calvary and wanted us to help him years ago. I then drew his attention to all the relevant national authorities, including the Ombudsman. I must say that she has advocated this case, as well as the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Fojkar was stigmatized because of the long-term criminal procedure and his medical condition was very poor because of all these long-term procedures. He's still feeling the consequences today. It was a controversial way of working as a district attorney, who, in the light of the excusable judgment, also referred to by the district judge. But nothing happened to the D.A. in this case. She's never been responsible for any mistakes she's made. Here I would like to thank once again my fellow Member, Mr Gorenak, on behalf of the State, Mr Fojkar, for his 11-year personal calvary. Let us take another example, which is related, for example, to Mrs Franje Šilich. You know this case very well, at least I hope, because it has been in the public several times before, but it may need further clarifications and clarifications. The case of Mrs Franje Šilih is such that the proceedings in the courts concerning her son's death have been pending for 21 years. In 1993, a medical error occurred. Despite the accuracy of the investigation and the suspicions raised, the prosecution did not want to carry out or take over. I hope that Mrs Zdenki Cerar, the late Attorney-General of the State, is not going to blame me if I tell you what has happened on one of the multiple visits at this time. She said it wasn't such a climate that we could fight medical errors. As a result, they took over the case by themselves as a subsidiary prosecutor with their husband and collected sufficient evidence to make the indictment legal with the 1999 decision. That was the first time, but not the last mistake. The defendant's charge was not served. Why? Most likely because complaints were made at the time by the accused physicians and the hospital, and ultimately the case was dismissed as unfounded and without sufficient evidence. Two years after his death, Shilih’s spouses also filed a compensation action. Everything was rejected. But later they decided to sue the country of Slovenia and succeeded in the European Court of Human Rights for violating the Convention, namely in the article on the right to life and because Slovenia does not have an institution to identify medical errors. In Slovenia they also succeeded in the Supreme Court of Justice, Constitutional Court, and the case was returned to the Court of First Instance, the District Court in Maribor, where Shilih's spouses went this third time, not to mention that they were not allowed to interview an expert. That is why we can rightly ask ourselves in such stories whether this seems to you to be a just and legal state. It is an excruciating injustice that has been found by the European Court of Human Rights, and we still have procedures, because it is more than obvious that certain people are being protected, perhaps even in some way in the wake of health-justice. As a result of such judicial conduct, people get sick, are financially bankrupt, and, above all, because of the ever-increasing new and long-lasting procedures, they cannot find inner peace so that they can finally, despite the pain that remains forever, breathe more freely and without burden. When we talk about justice, we can't get past the prosecution of economic crime. I already told the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, when we discussed the annual report, that economic crime is also a major violation of human rights in our country. Let me mention here fake bankruptcys, damage to creditors, business fraud, fraud in obtaining loans or benefits, tax evasion, misrepresentation of tax administrations, money laundering, suspicious transactions and so on. All of these crimes have resulted in many human rights violations committed against employees by direct or direct owners of companies, many of which have come up in a suspicious manner. At this point in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the Ombudsman to act more on his own initiative and not only on the basis of an application or initiative, in the face of such grave human rights violations, which appear particularly in the abuse of workers. We must be aware that individuals are afraid to speak out out of fear of possible, say, retaliatory measures. However, it is the Ombudsman who has the opportunity, under Article 26 of the Law on Human Rights, to initiate proceedings on his own initiative and not only by waiting for applications and initiatives from individuals affected. At this point in time, I am moving from justice to social affairs, in particular to two key issues of this time, in which we are, in general, in our country – unemployment and the issue of poverty. Much has already been said about this, especially in the position of the Slovenian People's Party, but allow me to say something about it myself. Unemployment has skyrocketed ever since the beginning of 2009. As a result of the consequences of corporate bankruptcy, more and more people are in such a difficult social situation and personal distress that they simply no longer see the way out of the vicious circle. So many times they face despair, discouragement, pessimism, which can unfortunately lead to the worst consequences when they no longer see the meaning of life. Unemployment resulting from financial distress, loneliness, isolation — all of this has become a constant in our society. In particular, people with disabilities, long-term unemployed, over 55 years of age, and more difficult to deal with are exposed to this. It is precisely these categories that the new Social Entrepreneurship Act 2011 is aimed at, unfortunately in practice, not yet fully revived. Today only 14 social enterprises are registered in Slovenia, while the social enterprise sector in Europe is growing and represents 10% of all European companies and employs more than 11 million people. That is why it would also be necessary for us to revive social entrepreneurship as soon as possible, which, as we see in Europe, also has an important impact on the state of employment. Unfortunately, the number of unemployed is increasing from day to day, causing a negative atmosphere in both local and national environments. The statistics collected by the Slovenian Employment Office show that the unemployment rate increased to 13.4% by the year 2008 by an average of 6,7%. Speaking of unemployment, we can't get past poverty. There are many of you in Slovenia from year to year. The Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, points out that she faces people, everywhere and often faces poverty and social pressures in her field. This highlights the situation of children from poor families who, according to her belief, should not share the fate of their parents. The Ombudsman's findings show that legislation unfortunately often fails in practice when people face poverty and are powerless. In doing so, she also warned from civil society that the efforts of NGOs, which contribute significantly to and put an end to the consequences of the crisis, must not be kept quiet to the State in failing to carry out their task in the fight against poverty. Psychologists warn that children living in poverty or on the brink of poverty have a very poor perspective in terms of developmental psychology. As they said in UNICEF Slovenia a long time ago – I quote: "We are at the point when we can lose an entire generation of children to poverty." It should be borne in mind that the consequences of bad decisions will not only be felt during the current crisis period but only much later. Mrs Anita Ogulin – we all know her as a fighter to help the poor, the poorest. The secretary of the Association of Youth Friends Ljubljana Moste–Polje points out that in Slovenia poverty has become a problem number 1. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, 392 thousand people or 14% were excluded from the risk of poverty or social exclusion last year. This means that their income was lower than €606 per person per month. To illustrate more plasticly: a 4-member family with two adult children and two children under 14 years of age had to have at least €1273 of net income available per month, and a 2-member household without children had to have at least €909 per month to rise above the poverty threshold. Even Slovenian humanitarian organisations, and here they are all thanking, are pointing out the great problem of poverty. A congress was held in October to highlight the problems of poverty and social exclusion in Slovenia and, at the same time, the increasingly indispensable role of humanitarian organisations in alleviating these pressures and problems. The purpose of the Congress was to draw attention to social exclusion, which is also a result of poverty, and to say that the research data carried out by the Forum last year show that 744 000 people in Slovenia needed the assistance of humanitarian organisations at least once last year. Now I would briefly touch on two more topics, namely, the topics that appear within the Ombudsman's report not only in this report, but practically all the years since I've been accompanying it – this is a matter of sensational reporting. The Ombudsman warns that the media are giving the advantage of sensationalism too many times. It also warns that it is unacceptable to disclose the identity of children in the media. What is particularly worrying is the fact that such violations are reported in sensationalism when family tragedies are reported, while revealing the identity and privacy of children, despite warning, are still taking place. With regard to the legislation on the protection of children in the media, it should also be said that thank God the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence was passed years ago, and a specific article regulates this particular issue. The victims or perpetrators of violence shall not be subject to publicly transmitted data on the basis of which the victim or her family could be identified. Data may only be transmitted with the consent of a full-year victim. This law imposes a responsibility on parents, foster parents, foster parents or foster parents to protect children from exposure to the public in the context of the implementation of their care. As a criminal offence, however, the Penal Code defines the publication of personal data of a child who is a participant in a judicial, administrative or any other procedure or the publication of other information on the basis of which his or her identity could be identified. The penalty is a fine or a sentence of up to three years. In her report, the Ombudsman also draws attention to mobbing or suffering in the workplace. There's more than that. We also receive such complaints against the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. We have also dealt with this subject several times, including with the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, but there is something essential to say about the fact that the Penal Code was adopted at the time of the first Janša Government, which defined the crime of the mobbing under Article 197, which is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years. Article 6 of the Labour Relations Act also prohibits sexual and other harassment and torture in the workplace. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also specifies that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security, which means that state authorities and all individuals must respect the right to personal dignity and security. The consequences of the mobbinge are also well aware of the European Union, which warns that one third of all working days are lost due to disease and absence, which are unfortunately all too often due to the mobbinga. The costs incurred by this mannequin go to thousands of billions of euros. This is enough information to suggest that we need to discuss this further so that we may at some point be able to hold another meeting on this subject with the Ombudsman, as it is a phenomenon within the working environment that we must take force seriously. We could also talk about such and other violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which the Ombudsman also points out within the Ombudsman's 2012 report, but some topics will be opened by my fellow Members as well as by myself. Otherwise, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the report and the Ombudsman's recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the report and on the proposal for a recommendation. Since there are some changes to the reported debaters, Mrs Ludmila Novak has the first word. Behind it are Mrs Janja Klasinc and then Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u24	Dear Chairman, Dear Guardian, all present and well greeted! The Ombudsman's report is extensive, thorough and well-represented – thank you very much. And this report is also a sad mirror of our society. Indeed, we are all concerned about what we have heard, and we are concerned that this report progresses year after year after year after what has happened in our society. However, once we have been diagnosed, we can also start treatment, so I also take this report as a mirror or diagnosis, on which we will be able to improve future treatment so that one day we can say that we are also making progress towards improving human rights, towards improving respect for values that were once the hallmark of Slovenian and Slovenian society. I would have stopped myself with the ethics of a public word. We are certainly not always examples here. Many times older people tell me that they are watching the third programme to monitor our discussions and that they get angry, sometimes they turn off the TV. The task of the government, the government's parties, the opposition is that we are also criticising ourselves to exchange opinions, but I also believe that this exchange of views is certainly not always at the right level, so that we must move ahead of our own threshold when we go into criticism of everyone else. I would also like to draw attention to modern media. The forums contain so much bad, more than any inn, so I think we should take some action here too. There you can write everything, anonymously say everything, spit over everyone, no authority matters, but lies hugely. Some of the yellow press isn't any better, and when you're completely embarrassed, you're embarrassed by the name, and they're saying, "I should," they're saying, "we've learned something from an anonymous letter" and so on. There's no author when you file a complaint to correct the announcement, and they say, "They weren't claims, they were conditioners." In this way, anyone can mutilate anyone. We politicians are victims of this, too. Even if you want to do good, effective, smart, you're getting measured that you're a thief and so on. This report also proves that all institutions in the country still have much work to do to improve the situation. I have already mentioned Parliament, including the government, as well as the government in implementing legislation – but I am not talking about the current government. Unfortunately, problems are always as heavy as water stone, and then we get confused about which government has done more, which is less, which is responsible for something, which is usually the sum total of all mistakes in the past, and it makes sense that we are solving these mistakes as effectively as possible. The judicial branch of power, which we have already talked about a lot in our Parliament – and I always say that, as in every profession, they are not themselves bad and themselves good – is increasingly aware of the mistakes she has made, as well as the complicity of the existing situation in society. I hope that this recognition also leads to further steps towards improvement. I always say intolerance to religious communities, to believers, why we need it. I'm faithful, you're not – no problem. Why do we have to get in the way, why do we have to read this to ourselves? Especially painful, though, is the use of inappropriate acts as an expression of culture or freedom of artistic creativity. In the end, one gets even the name of an honorable citizen with all the impatience. I will not talk about names; the case is very well known and in the past regrettably worth it. I wonder on my own why we Christians have so much intolerance, so much propaganda against the Church. He has his faults — we know, I do not apologize. On the other hand, it is part of our culture. Our faith has shaped Slovenian culture, to which we are so impatient. On the other side of the world, everyone jumps into the air if they hurt this culture somewhere, and we help spit on it ourselves. We will no longer understand the slowness of our culture, which has grown on the basis of Christianity and our faith. May I be forgiven if I remind you that someone recently mentioned that it was a big night in July. I won't talk about names, I don't want to expose anyone, but this is just one of the cases we're going to come to if we don't respect our roots, our traditions, our culture or even defend it. I am pleased that the guardian pointed out this too, for in the past I have had the feeling that this part of impatience is looking forward to overlooking, and we do not have, or have, the same vats for all. I'll also talk about the funeral of the victims. Some say let's leave history, we have a lot of problems today. It's true, we have a lot of problems, we need a lot of money, we have a lot of debt, and so on. However, I understand this very area as a necessary step towards reconciliation, a necessary step towards understanding our history, a step towards greater tolerance. If our culture is also based on the fact that each victim deserves a grave, a decent funeral, respect, then we must also take a step forward in this area. I think we will all be more pleased if we do not always return to the same problems because we always go back because we have not cleaned up these problems or made the right decisions. I would like to draw attention to something that really hurts our citizens. When we look at how government money is spent – on the other hand, we will also tax those who are already barely able to pay taxes, with increasing poverty – I see again and again how wasteful we are in large state projects. Last example: construction of the second rail track. How is it possible that the original estimate was a billion 400, and now all of a sudden we can build it with 600 million? Or in TES, in other major projects, in investments in health, where there are unreasonable prices, in highways where our km of highway is three times more expensive than in Austria and so on. Everyone can start with themselves where they want to cheat the country. At work, I want to embezzle a country where, as an institution, I want to embezzle the country. All these small frauds eventually make big holes in the state treasury, a big crisis, and this also leads to the great pessimism that we face today in Slovenia. A lot of people don't see a way out, they don't see that light at the end of the tunnel. I do not want to be pessimistic, and I say that this report may also be the beginning of treatment for our problems, that we all together realize that each of us as a citizen is responsible. As an institution, we are responsible as workers, as employers, if we are to change this situation in our country. Perhaps just one more example of warning — political recruitment. I understand, every authority must have in important places those who trust them. However, I always hear cases of someone being removed, although doing well, even though he has a vision, even though he knows what needs to be changed, because he has become a distraction because he is an obstacle to doing something unfairly, illegally, because someone is an obstacle because we want to put someone there who has no inadequate knowledge or qualifications. In this way, we will not be able to solve our problems and the state will not be able to make progress. Thanks for the report. I hope that my debate did not sound like a sermon, but only as a wish that each of us is responsible for the situation we are in, and that each of us can make a difference. When people tell me how bad it is, I say that I have a principle in my life — that I don't worry about things that I can't change, but I worry about those that I can change, and then I have to try to change them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Klasinc has the floor, followed by Dr Vinko Gorenak and then Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to the Ombudsman, to the representatives of the government, all of you! I'd start where my colleague ended up. When I listen to today's debate, I see that we are all thinking roughly the same about how to fix the situation in the country. The problem is, we all think it's just the same thing, the kind of star we see ourselves through. This is a problem of respect for human rights. In my opinion, human rights are most often violated by the authorities. Only that you are an average person, not only in Slovenia, but also in the world, represents that power is just politics. No, power is not just politics, power is real. These are the courts, these are the prosecutions, these are all branches of government that can violate human rights. It is very rare that one person who has no power within himself, who does not have an important function that does not have instruments with which to harm anyone, violates human rights. An individual can commit a crime, he can do something else. Human rights violations can be problematic when they become systemic. I will tell you, given that I have been actively following politics, as a journalist, for more than 20 years now as a politician, that my biggest disappointment in life in this area has been when we got our country, which we created right in the great respect of human rights and the fight for them in the previous country, with the rest of Yugoslavia not so hard to do so, and in this struggle of the Slovenians, to take more account of the rights of each individual and fundamental human rights – when we came to our country, we started to violate them. I am therefore pleased to note that the report, which we now have before us this time, has in recent years provided the least room for the problem deleted. He still mentions it, but thank God that our great shame is diminishing, and I am pleased that, it appears, we will solve this problem with this government to the point that we will at least symbolically apologize and repay the injustices inflicted on all those people for whom I have repeatedly followed in my eyes how the power of this democratic State of the Republic of Slovenia has mistreated them. Why did I mention deleted? Because I work in the National Assembly a lot in the field of international relations, because one of those points that brought Slovenia to a disadvantage is also deleted in the international community. You can't fix this back. We are fixing this too late, but we need to be more careful, and it is the responsibility of all of us politicians and the judiciary not to do so in the future. Thank God we've been informed. Unlike some who have debated before me, I do not think that previous human rights defenders have mentioned our shortcomings politically. Now I have been joined by my colleague Kavtičnik, who we have been chatting with during the discussion and who said how sad it is for the politicians to be appraising what is political. That's absurd. We make political assessments. When I've been monitoring the last 10 years of this report, I've never seen any political bias. It is true, however, that the report may give an impression of political bias, since in that year several such acts may have been committed, which the Ombudsman warned the Ombudsman that one political option was more affected than the other. I don't feel so much about these feelings, let's say we Slovenians don't like Christians. I may feel less, but because I am not personally affected in this area, and perhaps I feel more guilty, the injustice of one part of the political option that is being done to the partisans, the people who have liberated this nation and have allowed us to finally come to what we have today. That's what I said in the first sentence. Everyone's watching from their point of view. We here and the rule of law are responsible for ensuring the human rights of everyone, regardless of how I or someone else feels about it. When I read the report, I would mention only one case that fell specifically into my eyes. This is the case with regard to the non-payment of already paid supplementary health insurance premiums. The report speaks of a larger construction company. I assume it's Vegrad. I am very pleased that the Ombudsman has warned the state prosecutor that he should react here. Then we come to the point that has already been mentioned in some debates today – where is the problem? The State's Attorney's Office was waiting for someone to press charges. How? That's impossible. That's not his only job. Of course, it has to react when the suit comes, but with us the state prosecutor – both under this state prosecutor and under all the previous ones, when nothing is better – does not respond when the problem is detected in society. See, in foreign countries it is perfectly normal that when, for example, the media writes long and wide about a problem, the State Prosecutor's Office, if this is really an important problem, reacts immediately and begins to investigate this problem. But we have all the procedures and the charges and all these things waiting for us. We can also agree with the opposition here. I don't think there's any problem here. I was glad to read that the guardian was not satisfied with this explanation, nor should he be satisfied. In the end, I'd like to say something else about the ethics of the public word. The hate speech and these labels and objections, without any real reason, poison this nation. It's our fault. This, colleagues and colleagues, is what we do and no one else does — it is what happens in the National Assembly. If we don't keep an eye on it, then it'll never get better. I would just like to remind you that the social difficulties that have been discussed today, and for which the government of Alenka Bratušek, contrary to the opinion of some, is very much trying not to be greater, because with its actions it has not affected any social transfers, but is taxing those who have property and who have property or have – I am among them too, and I believe that most of us are such. You know, when such a difficult situation as we live in Slovenia, extremism quickly occurs. We're already their witness in this country. Intolerance is the first step towards coming to the next elections, whether they are extraordinary, regular or any kind of Greek Golden Sun in Parliament. I really don't want that. That's what we're responsible for. We must call for understanding, not to encourage that reason to be lost in this country. Thank you for the good report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Good thing it's my turn for Mrs. Klasinc. First a few responses to her part of the hate speech in the National Assembly, then the report itself. See, Mrs Klasinc, you claim that mass violations of human rights, which is the work area of the Ombudsman, began after 1991 – so you said, you will see this in the magnetogram – and that it was something better before. Let me remind you that there were no elections between 1945 and 1990. Let me remind you that from 1945 to 1990, one party ruled that we were a de facto undemocratic and totalitarian state. If you see something better in that country than in the country that was created after 1990, then it would be good to do something, maybe something smart, but not to speak the way you say it. Let me remind you that in that country they were taking PhDs, diplomas, and they didn't admit them, so some of them went to Germany and did them again -- I'm talking about Puchnik. Let me remind you that several thousand citizens in that country have been deprived of their civil rights and have been told: you have no disability, pension, health insurance, you have no right to work, so you can only die – I am talking about Angela Water. If this is a better country for you, and if that country had a better respect for human rights, then I don't know where we came from. You have also celebrated Mrs Bratuškov's praise for taking something from those who have something and care for the social weaknesses. I'll give you the next case that proves that it's not true. I will take the example of my neighbor – not necessarily to say the name – who will also pay the new property tax he has. Because he has 300 euros or something over his pension, he's not going to be able to do that. That's why you predicted what? In order for the state to sign up for property, one day this house will be taken away from her and she will throw this 300-euro neighbor on the road. At the same time, this government, this country, this coalition and this Prime Minister protect the privileges. Let me just give you two names. Former President of the State of Milan Kučan, who has a thousand 600 euros in pensions, those regular, normal and deserving, and a thousand 400 euros in the legally granted allowance. Let me go on, let's say, to some culturer who wrote some Muco Maco or Cat Muri or whatever it was, and that's why she's got 2,000 euros in pension. Look, these people are gonna be able to pay all the taxes, there's not gonna be any problem. But that's no concern for the poor. It's a privilege concern, it's a concern for the rich. So much for your performance, which is due in another period and some other time, and not in 2013. As far as the report is concerned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u29	Dr. Gorenak, just a moment, excuse me. I would politely ask if you would stick to point 18, the Ombudsman's 18 reports, and above all not to use names – because you said you did not want to say the name of your neighbor – if it is possible to discuss in an corrective manner that you would not offend anyone. I respectfully ask you to consider this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u30	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. For the first time, I ask you to give me back my time, and for the second time, I ask you to be equal to everyone. Mrs Klasinc has cruelly insulted people in the gravest way, but you have not reacted. But I mentioned two names that are known to the public, but I didn't mention the neighbor. I hope you've got my time back. As far as the Ombudsman's report is concerned, the following: I took a thorough look at the whole report, but especially at the part on pages 61 to 185, which represents about half of the report. This is a chapter on the Limitation of Personal Freedom, Justice, Police Procedures, Administrative Affairs. This is kind of half the report, and it has to be said that this is an important part of the report. There is something else to say – this is a report from your predecessor and not your report. You are formally signed under this, but the period that this report deals with is the period of your predecessor. So let me put it this way. Let me begin by wishing you a very balanced work in your mandate, given that you have been supported by my client and also by myself at the election in the National Assembly. Special emphasis is on balanced work, because this was not the case by your predecessors, especially if you take, say, one of your predecessors, Mr Hanžk, who is demonstrating today in Ljubljana, is the leader of a political party that was told by the people at the elections when they entered parliament, and it is a first-class policy. I do not expect this from you, but I expect that the follow-up reports will be as balanced and correct as possible as possible for all parties. In some ways, my expectation is justified in view of the function you have previously performed — the prosecutor’s function. I want change, but some things, people around you don't impress me or give me hope that it might be better. I'm thinking about Mr. Roovsk, which I'm going to talk about in the end. Journalism, for example, is one of the things a person would expect from a balanced media space. That's why I expect you to say a word about this area in the future. As you know, the press is disappearing, just like they were in the trenches in 1945. Not in the trenches today, but they can't work anymore, say Mr. Kovac, Slak, Traven. I hope you will say something about this matter in the report that will follow. On page 64, the report discusses the level of payment for convicts. It's okay that convicts are paid as they are by law if they work, but I think it's more important to deal with workers than with convicted persons. Convicted persons often have at least food, an apartment and everything else in prison, which some, those, I'll say who go to work don't have. So I think it would be better to deal with these. On page 80, you call for the provision of funds for investment maintenance in prisons. All well and good, but I've always had a feeling about reporting your predecessor – and I can see that this year again in the report – how he advocates for prisoners, for prisoners. However, it is important to note that there are other persons or government officials who work in significantly worse places — such as police officers, customs officers, and others — such as places in some prisons, or who drive themselves in eight - year - old vehicles that are already deadly. Thus, it would be advisable to give future attention to these persons or to these civil servants. Page 82. The fact that the defendant was taken by a broommaker doesn't seem to be worth it in the report. They took the prisoner's broomstick, and he only had to sweep it with a broom. I don't think that's worth finding a place in the report. This is indeed something quite abnormal that the complaint is justified. On page 92, you are talking about judicial proceedings. But here I assure you that you have all my support for everything it says about the work of the courts and everyone else, which I have also commended your predecessor for. Here you have all the support – I hope not only mine, but also the customers I belong to. What's this all about? You talk harshly about court proceedings, you point out mistakes and so on. In the National Assembly there is some mood in the sense that this is the third branch of power, that these are the Dalai Lamas, which no one can say to them, that they are independent and so on, which is the self-limitation of the National Assembly, which is nonsense, but so it is. You're an independent state authority, just like the National Assembly, and you're criticizing the judiciary. This is a question for Members, why we must not criticize the judiciary and why the guardian can. I think the guardian can and we can. It's as clear as day. I hope that, with your opinions, you will be able to make an important contribution to the changes in justice, which is the same as before 1991, by your opinions, to not stress everything Mrs Irgle has said – to do injustices, to not control them, to pay them too much, which I have already talked about. I can't get past what Mr. Gönch said. This shows one major inefficiencies of justice in this country. The Hungarian National Community was two years ago — I remember, because they were also addressing me — experiencing horrendous, insulting accusations. Look what's going on. Nothing. Prosecutors are independent, as Minister, I shouldn't have asked them anything. Nothing has happened to the court either, but the Hungarian national community continues to target some people who are cruelly insulting this community. That's a fact. Here I think and I would like you to speed up these procedures, and you, too, with your authority, in particular because of the special situation, the constitutional situation of the Hungarian national community. Mrs. Irgle was talking about Mr. Foykar. This is a typical case of abuse of the prosecution's function. I'm going to repeat this because it's hard for some people to hear this because the lawyers are this prosecutor, and they're also asking questions from Members. It has to be repeated. For 11 years, this person was tried. For 11 years, the prosecutor complained. For 11 years, all the courts at all levels have said, "No, prosecutor, you're wrong." At one stage, the judge wrote: "The prosecutor, you have no evidence, you use your position and stop doing it." That's what the judge wrote. However, this prosecutor continued. After 11 years with Mrs Irgl, she, the President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities in the previous term, and even today, I, in my role as Minister, have managed to bring this apparatus to an end, despite the opposition, and this huge opposition of individual members of the justice ministry, to the end and to pay EUR 5,000. Can you imagine? Five thousand euros has been given to man for 11 years of insult and suffering. By the way, the government, for example, approved, on a proposal from the defense, another person who was suspected of murder and then was not convicted, a quarter of a million. And this gentleman got 5,000 euros. When Mrs Irgle advocates the protection of his rights and stresses these matters, she is attacked by some Members. Brundya and I don't know what he's doing. It will be necessary to decide either to protect the privileges or to take sides with the rights and nothing else. I even got the question why she was at the press conference, like she wasn't supposed to be. At the press conference, I'm going to invite those I'm going to want, those who have contributed to the matter. Let me remind you, Madam Guardian, that the same prosecutor is in charge of some other proceedings. I think it's the same. It is about people from the area of Nova Gorica, where it was about a minor publishing or warning about a pornographic picture of his teacher. Then there were lawsuits, complaints, and so on, and then the parents and this minor asked the newspaper: Please allow us to publish our information. Parents and this minor, who is already a minor, have asked that you publish all our personal information. Now they've received 3,000 euros in fines for publishing this personal information. Do you see this nonsense? I think it's the same prosecutor. As far as the courts are concerned – I will say below – you have absolute support to move forward on a path that has been partially outlined before. Page 115. Madam Guardian, I would avoid political evaluations. The transfer of the Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of Internal Affairs is quite a political assessment. The Constitutional Court has confirmed that there is nothing wrong with this, so there is no point in going through such political matters. The 115th page also discusses the policy of prosecution adopted by the Attorney General. By the way, he took a win with a six-month delay, some product that doesn't mean anything that you can hang in some public night and it'll be fine because it's useless. Perhaps it would be good if you, as an ex-employee, were to forget a little bit about what we could also read in the media so that you wouldn't go to work one day a week. I think it's more. After all, you know why they call him a tourist — because he is not there. Well, you should be. This gentleman also uses double criteria. I don't know what kind of an ambulance he was sending to me because some prosecutor -- this is the head of the D.A.'s office in Kranj -- wasn't appointed in two months. This government appointing this prosecutor as a senior or chief prosecutor, I don't know exactly anymore, has been stalling for seven months. He's got a seven-month case in his drawer. He sent me three E.R.s for two months, and I don't think he's heard from the government yet. Do you see his double political standards? Clear! I will be very happy if you continue what you started in this report, where you have touched an area that you know perfectly well. This is the area of the finality of the prosecution's decisions. Today it is clear that you have a higher court, a Supreme Court, a Constitutional Court and Strasbourg over a first-degree judge, where some wrong decisions can be overturned. There's no one on the D.A. When the prosecutor says something isn't murder or something isn't a crime, that he won't pursue it, there's only God and nothing else. If you went to this area and what you said on this subject, that would be extremely good. The Attorney-General says that he may be the one who thinks he's injured and can go to a private suit. Of course you can go, but that's not real legal protection. In no way is the case adequate, especially because you find that often no such person is informed at all, that the proceedings have been completed and that the appeal has been dismissed. Page 120 – You are talking about lawyering, charging services and irregularities. You have all the support in this area. On pages 125 to 146, there are courts. I have already made it very clear: the independence of the judiciary – yes, there is no problem, no problem, because these are European standards and so it must be. But not what the judiciary thinks it is, and not what the members of the political left think it is. A job or a bad job is not independence. Parliament can criticize them and must criticize them. Parliament even needs to cut down and perform an operation, an effective operation, which then means a healthy organism to move forward, not a dead body that does nothing. On pages 145 to 156, you're talking about police procedures. I have no comments on this part. All the years the police have responded extremely well to the Ombudsman – as you can see now – while many other institutions, such as lawyers or the environment ministry and others, do not respond at all, do not answer to the Ombudsman. I was very pleased, too, when you or your colleagues checked mass detentions after demonstrations in Maribor last year and had some critical comments – okay, but I am glad that they were there and that they gave their opinion. I am also pleased with what they said, because we were in a situation for the first time that was impossible to predict in advance. But I would be very happy to see another case. I recommend you take the case of Officer Beaver. What's this all about? From 1997 to today, 16 years old, he's waiting for his right. How can a person work?Oh, my God! How can a demanding police work be done if it is 16 years before a court and 16 years without a decision? I'm sure the judiciary is violating his fundamental human rights. 16 years doesn't make a decision. It's a known case when this police officer killed a person in a police procedure. The court pardoned him for shooting himself. Then there was a private lawsuit, and this private lawsuit takes place for seven years and nothing happens. It would be good if we focused on a case like this. There's one more thing I'd like to point out, and I'd like to ask you. The law on archival materials, at least in the government, was followed in the process. The government intends, at least according to the media, to restore itself to human will. The human will was clear. More than 70% of people have decided that archives from before 1990 should be open to the public. When we opposed the opposition at that time, your deputy, Mr Rovšek, was very clear in his support of the wdbov efforts. See, that's what I'm afraid of. He supported all the engagement efforts after the archives were closed. This is a completely abnormal view of the Ombudsman. That's when I branded him as an asshole, as you know. It is not normal for the Ombudsman to take the view that some archives from before 1990 should be closed for, I don't know, 100 years or 80 years or 60 years, and to look for some comparisons with the English, German or American system, where it is a century-old democracy, but it is something else. Please and I suggest that you engage yourself when it is necessary to take a position on this issue and to do what is expected of the Ombudsman and not what is expected of those who have violated the laws and who have violated human rights and freedoms before 1990. It would be right if you had this part, I'll say, under strict control. To conclude, that's all. First of all, because you come from a job that you did before, which is close to the judiciary – you were a prosecutor at all levels, maybe even a judge, I don't know – I expect you to be truly balanced, properly exposed to all the problems that are in this society. Thank you very much. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc proposed for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u32	Madam Vice-President, a replica is an instrument in the National Assembly, which we use when we are misunderstood. I'm sure, given that I've known Dr. Gorenak for years, and that he also has an academic title, that it's impossible for him to misinterpret me, but that he purposely took me down and attributed me to some of the Yugoslav aspirations. He likes to do this on several occasions only because I was a correspondent of the Republic of Slovenia from Belgrade in those days. Let me explain again what I really said. I said that we were Slovenians in those days, and here we agree with Mr Gorenak, a non-democratic society, a non-democratic state, those we have most loudly called for respect for human rights in the former Yugoslavia. So I was sorry that, after we got our country, when we were able to create our one-hundred-year-old wish, we began to violate them, too. Nothing else. It doesn't even make sense to answer to all the other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following has the word, Mr Samo Bevk, to prepare Dr Ljubica Jelusic and for her Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I support this report. It's very extensive. I am speaking only on one segment of this report. In view of the petition we have received from the Group of Social Democrats, I will only touch on one problem in the area of housing. These are the problems that residents have in multi-housing buildings with managers. In general, I can say that the Ombudsman is not satisfied with the situation in the area of housing relations because there is no progress. The recommendations from year to year remain unfulfilled. The last government response report for 2011 also shows that housing matters are properly regulated, that legislation is appropriate and that there is no need for change. This was followed by the National Assembly, which in that area did not accept any recommendation from the Ombudsman to improve the situation. However, already in the 2011 report, the Ombudsman pointed out the need for the adoption of the National Housing Programme for 2012-2021, which is still in preparation. Interestingly, only 44 initiatives are being addressed by the Ombudsman in 2012 in the area of housing, which is significantly less than a year ago when there were 93 such initiatives. According to the Ombudsman, such a decline can also be linked to people losing confidence in the country and those institutions that can help them. In the 2012 report, there are no issues relating to governance issues in multi-housing buildings and problems faced by tenants in relation to managers. This does not mean that these problems do not exist in the country. This is how representatives of residents from Bežigrad, Mesarska, Novi Poljan and two neighbours from Šiška in Ljubljana addressed us. Since they have serious problems with operators, they have presented an initiative to amend the current housing law, which would make it easier to replace the manager in multi-housing buildings. Following the current arrangements, the appointment of the manager during the regular management business shall be made. This means that such decisions are taken by the owners of a multi-entity building whose ownership shares on this property together exceed 50 %. As a result, the replacement of the manager is extremely difficult in multi-housing buildings, where there is a large number of co-owners. Instigators propose to set the building’s managers’ term of office for 4 to 5 years, and for a new mandate, the manager should make an effort and obtain more than 50% of the consent for the building’s co-owners — vice versa — as is the case today. Such arrangements would force the manager to become a more competent manager in order to carry out his work more transparently and more cost-effectively. What problems do residents face? Thus, for example, one of the co-management or neighbourhood management contracts was signed between the builders of the neighbourhoods themselves before the apartments were even sold to the new owners. Such contracts are also signed for 8, 10 years in advance, so that the owners did not actually have and have no impact on the selection of the governor of the neighborhood. In doing so, they drew attention to the possible commissions of managers by the operators themselves, such as for certain repairs, insurance companies and the like. It's an enormous amount of money that managers collect from their tenants. The signatories to this petition pointed out, however, that there is a suspicion of an irrational and unintended use of the funds they are paying to reserve funds. Thus, in one case, residents collected up to 80% of signatures to replace the administrator and still have not reached a replacement because there is a constant complication and delaying them. Also on the government portal I propose to the government it is possible to track similar initiatives. In particular, the joint denominator of these initiatives is the call for more effective protection of minority co-owners in multi-housing buildings, which are practically not protected in cases where managers do not either perform their work or do not perform it conscientiously and economically, as provided by legislation. I propose to the Ombudsman that he continue his work to address the problems of tenants in multi-housing buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr Ljubica Jelusic has the word, followed by Mr Dragan Bosic, and then by Mrs Janja Našast.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, and very much welcome to us for a long time. Nice greeting also to all representatives of the Government and above all respectable to the Ombudsman, the authorities of Nussdorfer, with a co-worker! We have the Ombudsman's 2012 report under consideration. This means that we have already written the 2013 report in a special way. You will complete it in your office, but the public sector, public function holders and all those who usually belong to a set of human rights violators who are concerned with the Ombudsman have already been working on their mistakes this year for 10 months. The comments and recommendations you make on the basis of the initiatives that have come to your office in 2012 have warned about the functioning of the Government and also all the others you are sending for the coming years. It is true that the initiatives that came to your office in 2012 are not only a reflection of the situation in that year, but usually reflect long-standing violations and irregular conditions in the field of human rights protection in our country. However, we must be aware that when we describe the current situation in society and talk about the 2012 report, we are trying in some way to advise respectable guardians and co-workers about what they should pay attention to in the future, and less in these discussions that we have today, we are talking about what was found in 2012. I would like to highlight one issue that is present in the 2012 report on ethics in the teaching profession. In the introduction, the Ombudsman said that the rule of law was being tested in crisis situations. Here we find that the social state is also on trial, and we must add that the ethics of professions, public professions, in the public sector, those who work with people in the public sector and are also responsible for the growth of our future active citizens, to the test. This is an example of the number 75 on page 183, in which you note that after the school has helped one of the ten - year - old girls, her financial condition and the financial condition of her family are discussed in front of other students. This is a question of the ability to protect the personal dignity of every human being in our society, including children. Although children are the least aware of this in some of the global words or terms we use, those who recognize such injustice feel it very quickly and then follow it in their lives. I therefore think that, in terms of the ethics of the teaching profession, in particular now, in times of crisis, there is still a lot to be done in terms of teaching, teaching, additional education of teachers and teachers, as well as of educators in kindergartens, that they are paying attention to how they deal with children coming from different social backgrounds. This is also related to an interesting idea that occurred this year in our country, namely that children should wear school uniforms in order to avoid social differences being visible outside. I think that this case of yours, which you have highlighted, shows very well that it is not possible to cover up social differences because the social differences are known by teachers, and if teachers are not able to protect the dignity of children in a way that they do not talk about what is under that dress, then the dress or school uniform of this fact cannot cover in any way. I also hope to say this because I belong to a generation that in the incriminated regime, as previously said, wore a uniform. That uniform in our time did not exactly conceal our social status in any way, but it did more to expose it. Not only should teachers be taught about respect for the personal dignity of children when it comes to their social situation – I think that teachers should also be educated or trained to detect different forms of pedophile behaviour in their species or by people in the vicinity of the child, and that they should be more careful about possible direct or indirect sexual abuse of children in kindergartens or schools. Finally, we are probably all obliged to do this together even when we consider the pedophile behavior of one of the famous Slovenian writers. The other thing I would like to point out is the question raised in this report. Otherwise it's called Water Rights, but I would turn it into a right to water, namely the right to healthy drinking water. I am opening this question because it is not only about the conduct of organs in our country, but perhaps in the future, that our human rights could also be violated because of institutions outside our country. These institutions, too, or their conduct, show consideration in the future. We were dealing with the proposal for a directive on concessions regarding access to infrastructure either for water or for energy and some others. This Directive was produced by the European Commission. On the basis of more than one million signatures of all citizens of the European Union, i.e. European Union citizens from all countries of the European Union, there has been a halt to the adoption of this Directive and a re-examination of what this concession directive provides for in the European Commission. But it was a question of whether people have a healthy drinking water now and in the future and whether or not someone would be able to make profits on account of access to healthy drinking water someday. I also note this because of the case that we had in our country, which was also known to the media, the tenants who turned off the water from the house owners in order to move out because they were planning to sell the house. We see that in some hidden way, attempts to intervene in the right of people to water appear slowly in our society as well. I am also talking about this right because we have recently concluded a debate, otherwise unsuccessfully, in the National Assembly on the initiative of the Council of State, to include the right to healthy drinking water in the Constitution as one of the fundamental human rights. The third thing I would like to point out or find interesting is the fact that there were not so many initiatives or so many different cases dealt with in 2012, except in the field of police powers under the name of the repressive apparatus of the State, as in previous years. Is that an exception? Whether the number of these initiatives will increase again in the coming years, we will see. The reasons why, for example, there have been few initiatives in recent years in the field of defence and security are unknown. They may be in the system itself, which responds quickly to these initiatives, but they may also be in the sense that the problems in this system are still being accumulated and will be highlighted in the years to come. This seems important to me because years ago there was talk about the possibility that the Ombudsman’s Office would have someone specializing in the field of defence and security or that there would even be a special Ombudsman or Ombudsman for this area. We have slowly rejected these ideas, but I think that the Office of the Ombudsman has decided more of a first option with us, that with these issues within the Office some experts are particularly involved in what I think is appropriate for the organisation of the Slovenian Office for Human Rights, the protection of human rights. I welcome the 2012 report, and in particular all the recommendations. I hope that they will come across the open ears and the willingness of all government authorities and other agencies to make these recommendations so that they will no longer have to be repeated by the Ombudsman in the years to come. Thank you very much for the recommendations and for all the good that goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor, followed by Mrs Janja Attack and then Mr Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, guardians with co-workers, all present! I wouldn't be doing a review of the report, because I've already heard interpretations, but I would point out some things, those that seem good to me, and those that don't seem bad to me, but they seem like they can be fixed. I also liked the previous debate because it is going in the direction of some concrete solutions. The first area to be highlighted is the area of discrimination. When people are in distress, they respond in two ways: whether they are solidarity or discriminate against each other. The President took place last year at ZUJF under Article 143 of the Law, where one category of people within themselves discriminated against some. That was an alarming act for me. Your predecessor responded and then there was a judgment and a result that was personally good to me. This is one area where discrimination can be stepped up at this time, so I would like to draw particular attention to this and also to the solution that was good. At first, when I took the report, I was happy at first that there were about 100 pages less than last year, but then I saw that there were quite a lot more. The government’s response reports on certain segments are also not satisfactory, but are possible below. Second thing: protecting children's rights. Here are some of the problems I see, namely the fact that Slovenia has not even formally acceded to the ban on corporal punishment of children. 24. Ten. 2013, today's date – that's a little rough. Perhaps in this context, I would add that it is not just physical punishment. Perhaps it would suggest extending this to inappropriate punishment. Unfortunately, children receive various punishments, physical, psychological. It would be difficult now, at this time, to debate which of these are worse. An important mission is carried out by the Advocate – the voice of the child, which we have welcomed once, but still remains like a pilot project, and this pilot project will once again retire as a pilot project, which is not good. I have a problem with the Commission's interpretation of medical ethics in the heading on sexual harassment or child abuse. I have to read this because it's a quote: "The doctor cannot be included in the repressive system because it would endanger his mission." If a doctor identifies any sexual violence against a child, he is bound by silence. I can't agree with that. The priority is the child's interest. I don't know how these doctors sleep, what their problems are, but one thing is to get involved in a repressive system, and one thing is to detect a problem that's very serious, because in the final stage it happens quite often that it's just the first contact or finding some irregularity. So I think that in this direction it would suggest thinking and looking for a solution that would, I repeat, be in the best interest of the child, because it is a matter of protecting the rights of the child. Right to water? It would be nice if we could get people some water before they get the right to the constitution. I also weighed your report through the prism of Amnesty International reports and their activities in this area. I speak purposely to people, not to whom, but to people. All people have this right, but what's interesting is they don't have water. The Constitution also provides everyone with an apartment, but they don't have one. This thing's a big deal. It would make me very uncomfortable to see Angela Jolie next year, who would open up a pipe somewhere in her path between the undeveloped and then come here and run, bring water to those who don't have it right now, and maybe adopt someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Madam State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Ms Tina Brecelj, wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Since the debate today has repeatedly exposed the alleged lack of standardisation of the responsibilities of judges, I would, however, like to state some facts. The first is that, in accordance with Greece's recommendations, an ethical code is being drawn up for this area. In addition, I would like to point out that the solution is not in additional standardisation. The key is in the implementation of the provisions already laid down in the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. In this regard, I would like to point out that there have been significant developments in recent times. Four negative assessments of the judicial service were issued in less than a year. We also note a number of cases of departures from judicial types, and a number of judicial assessment procedures are still under way. It seems that collegiality is no longer a rule for any price, and the intensity of awareness of the importance of purification of its own species and the achievement of quality of work standards, however, is increasing intensively in the judiciary. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Attack has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear guardian with deputy, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The consideration of the Ombudsman's recommendation when the social situation is exacerbated points to the paradoxical focus of the word "right" based on the constant respect for the principle of "what is right", so to do, say, think what is right. On the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, the members, together with the Ombudsman, were reminded of the unheard-of emphasis in a society where, due to the most vulnerable or vulnerable groups in Slovenia, there is a lack of legal basis or the realization of the protection of rights. The consistency of institutions to conflicts sometimes reminds us of the remoteness of zero tolerance of all kinds of violence, abuse, violation and disrespect of man himself, unfortunately. Given the scope of the report, human rights are still a problematic issue. It is interesting to note that, in the context of the category of constitutional rights, the ethics of the public word and the freedom of conscience stand out by the number of cases under consideration and, secondly, the issue of restrictions on personal freedom, where they account for an increase of 7.5% compared to 2011. Civil society groups are also sensitive to the potential for greater abuse due to all forms of violence and abuse, as well as to problems with the mental state of children. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to a project that has not been implemented in the previous term – the Centre for Human Rights as a new form of the national institution. In 2011 a working group on the re-regulation of the field of mental health of children and adolescents was also to be appointed with the preparation of the Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme. The transmission of the proposal should probably also be heard by the Ministry of Health. Let me add that when we talk about psychiatry in hospitals and at home, there is no legal basis for protecting people. For example, hospital fixation is without a legal basis. The report prepared by the Ombudsman also represents the work of the Advocacy pilot project – the voice of the child and somehow proves that the Ombudsman has survived the ice of advocacy through the project. He laid the foundations for the child's advocacy in such a way that he tried to put the child in the role of the entity in all proceedings. The project, which took place in the last three years, has been extended by 10 children outside the original areas. It is interesting to note that by 2012 237 children were appointed advocates, and compared to the problem and number of cases, there are almost 5,000 children under the age of 18 who are victims of various acts, and the cases in question are about 20% more. That's what the police are reporting. In 2011, the police recorded 115 cases of refugee children from home due to the hardship of a child or family relationship. Furthermore, in 2010 the police found 7 000 615 criminal charges for criminal acts involving elements of domestic violence. While we also have Community data for social work centres, I will not be presenting this in more detail. Every year in Slovenia we can still monitor the stories of suicides and child suicide attempts. At this point, I can say that at least we, who are the younger population, are seeing an increasingly thinr limit in determining the causes for these. The worst forms of abuse with different types of isolation, including non-response or non-recognition of social services, are also possible. In Slovenia, for example, a few thousand children cannot rely on their parents, and these children certainly need even more intensive advocacy. The current state and work or project confirms that the need to continue the advocacy project is more than justifiable and that we will enable the child's advocates to play an active role in solving issues related to their rights and their benefits. So I don't owe you any money on this project. On the occasion of the World Day for the Protection of Human Rights, Slovenian experts pointed out at the consultation that the advocate was in conflict with other institutions. That is why he needs support that gives him legitimacy that the voice of a child who is not heard is heard. For example, they pointed out that the child has the least power or that he does not have it at all. Psychologist Zoran Pavlović sees inter alia advocacy as the most important project of children's rights at present. Ms Pillay, High Commissioner for Human Rights of the United Nations, stated in her statement on the World Day for the Protection of Human Rights that the crowds around the world have recently demanded more than freedom of speech in the streets, but their voice needs to be heard, and that they are working together to shape decisions that affect the development of their community. This is also enshrined in Article 13 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That the voice of a civilian and a child must be preserved and found additional measures to bring about zero tolerance of violence, and that moral as in modern times between children, adolescents and adults must turn, this report also shows. I would also like to draw attention to a brief contact between hate speech and freedom of speech. I therefore call on everyone to consider the ethics of public words, the ethics of morality and the height of man's intolerance. Our view of communication in conveying human content differs, so it would be better if we began to talk openly but kindly about it. I would point to the problem of adapting the analytical approach to statistics and the principle of equal treatment. For example, each year the Office of the European Ombudsman accepts about 2 000 500 complaints from citizens, businesses, NGOs, universities, municipalities and other natural or legal persons. The Office shall launch more than 450 investigations at annual level. Many investigations concern complaints of a lack of transparency in the institutions of the European Union, including refusal of access to documents or information. Other cases, for example, concern problems in European Union programmes and projects, discrimination or conflicts of interest in the administration of the European Union. At the beginning of its term of office, on 1 October, the European Ombudsman also stressed that one of its key tasks at a time when Europe is facing both the economic crisis and the political legitimacy crisis, the confidence of citizens in European institutions is declining, the emphasis is placed on subjects that are important to citizens, and the help to bridge the wide gap between citizens and institutions, state and European. Part of political dialogue and control depends largely on the functioning of national courts. The Community is the one on which the Union is founded. In doing so, I would like to draw very clear attention to the initiative of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to implement the Law on the correction of injustices of May last year to develop an effective culture of fundamental rights at European Union level through an indicator of an effective non-centralised instrument in national constitutional order. This is a special step towards a more harmonised system for the protection of fundamental rights that ensures an equal level of rights and protection in all Member States in the implementation of European Union law. Let me also expose the development of the Slovenian consciousness, which sometimes, I think, we are deliberately creating towards Eurocontinental philosophy, which is contrary to our history. We can talk about the devastating consequences of totalitarianism, so the necessary common civilisation standards should be re-created. To argue. Maintaining Slovenian customs among young people will become increasingly difficult with the spread between the two worlds. The world has become a roulette. The current state of crisis has not only been caused by politicians. But it's important. The weaker the civil conscience of the citizens, the weaker the civil sense, the more fertile the soil for evil deeds. Evil is, in its essence, banal. The more ethical and moral boundaries are slight, the more excuses and bad examples, the easier the person’s soul gives in to animal passions, although the poor animals have nothing to do with it. They kill for survival, and a man kills for others. I don't mix things up in this place, but it's just kind of an exposure to real problems. What is the flora of today’s man – yesterday, today, tomorrow. There is a separation mentioned in the ancient writings, a distinction between natural and artistic memory. Our perception of the world and our actions are a result of how and by what we remember. Governments should therefore invest in systems and structures based on human rights and the rule of law. One of the charms or wonders of modern times is that in all the noise in which we live, silence has become heard. Therefore, I would like to thank the Ombudsman and my colleagues for the report and all the work and wish them to continue to work successfully. To conclude a little more positively, I would like to compare the European Union with the other superpowers. For example, the European Union continues to face violations of the rights of Roma and migrants, especially those from Africa. Xenophobia and racism are also growing. In Belarus, the number of arrests of peaceful protestors and the repression of the opposition is increasing. Many executions of dissidents, bloggers and activists may be recorded in Iran. They have the most death sentences against the population and repression against the political opposition. I'm also comparing a little for fun. In the Congo, the military is torturing the civilian population and the number of deaths and the number of refugees is increasing. In Russia, violations of rights are observed in freedom of expression and the right to assembly. And maybe it's just that, because of armed violence, 500 people die every day, and every year, 12 billion bullets are produced, almost enough to kill every inhabitant of the Earth twice. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor, followed by Mr Branko Smodiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respectable members of the office, respectable colleagues! I would like to talk about the first point or constitutional rights. As you have seen from the 2012 report, constitutional rights in our congregation have been violated, namely, for a replacement member of the municipal council. What worries me very much is the following conclusion — that the higher court somehow did not give a positive opinion to the lower court and that the person mentioned violated the right to become a municipal councilman. I wonder if the Supreme Court has legalized the mayor's illegal act. This happened not for a month or two, but almost a year and a half. The initiatives were by the Ombudsman to make things right, and with regard to the Ministry of Justice. You can read all of this in the guardian's notes on pages 27 to 33. What is more, the problem is that we were also deprived of elections in the State Council because the mayor had no time to vote, and he had an apology, he has two parishioners. It didn't go through. You can read the opinion given to the Ombudsman’s Office on page 32 of the preceding paragraph. He would abolish the congregation council and all that is involved with the guardian. You can read all this. We have two parishioners. Whether they are doing their job as taxpayers — that is again a question. I didn't think I'd say that, but I have to do it because of the people I represent in the congregation, the former members of the SD. 12 members of the municipal committee stepped down. They have been members for 40, 50 years, committed to social democracy and have somehow distanced themselves from the mayor. On the other hand, we have a mayor coming from SDS. This is a Slovenian folklore and a disregard for the rule of law. Let me put it this way. You can all see on the computers you have in front of you – see the 2013 speech by the mayor of Illyrian Bistrica on YouTube. At the same time, I call on the Ombudsman's Office to look at this and to ask about the foundations of democracy already adopted by ancient Greece and on which the European Union is founded. The first link is, take a look and listen to the mayor's address. No photomontage, it's a reality. We must be aware that this society is not in a financial crisis – number one is a social crisis. For the end of a few positive thoughts. I will be very happy when this report is a little thinner and people are satisfied. When will we achieve this and how, it is up to us and citizens and citizens. At the same time, we're going to do a little bit of helping with the nanny's work. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next debater, Mr Borut Ambrožič I apologize, Mr Branko Smodiš has the floor to prepare for him Mr Borut Ambrožič and Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! Thanks for the report. The Ombudsman's report looked at the state. The National Assembly is also a mirror of the state, and it is also sometimes necessary to imagine. Unfortunately, we didn't want the reports we had. The economic and financial crisis has shown all the weaknesses and powerlessness of countries and that, on a global scale, there is money, capital, and not people, man. For what human rights would be! I will not repeat myself after others, and also from the report I will not cover the data, as everything has been told in most cases. What's wrong? That's how we all know. However, I would like to draw attention to the problem already raised by Mrs Novak – information technology, online. That's the problem of the 21st century. Let's look at the comments, the forums, the posts – everything is allowed here. I would like to point out that, already in the introduction, the Ombudsman notes that we still face the issue of ethics in public language day after day. The wounded feelings of individuals and even groups extend to different areas of separation between ours and yours, believers and atheists and so on. Hatred is also the cause of many overemphasis and with feelings of coloured performances, and through it the path to hate speech is short and unfortunately too easy for many. The way back is almost impossible, as it often leads online. Unfortunately, what's written online is almost forever. I'd like to ask the guardian here for more attention on this. Finally, I would add: I hope and wish that the 2013 report will be more optimistic and that the negative trend will stop. Optimism also gives me a report by a representative of the Government and some of the recommendations already implemented by the Government. Finally, the Ombudsman and the entire team are commended for their quality report for 2012. I wish you good work to come! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Ambrožič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I warmly welcome the Ombudsman, her coworkers and all the others present in the hall! Allow me to start by expressing my support for the submitted report, which I fully support or support with all the recommendations of the Institute. Otherwise, allow me to read further Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which also illustrates the institution of the Ombudsman, which states in the first paragraph: "Everyone has the right to such a standard of living that guarantees him and his family health and well-being, including food, clothing, housing, medical care and necessary social services; the right to protection in the event of unemployment, sickness, occupational incapacity, widowhood and age or other inability to obtain living resources due to circumstances independent of his will." So it is written on paper, and it is also written in many ways in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as was recently sent by the Styrian comedian Toš, who then stated in his implementation that he took into his bank the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where it says that everyone has the right to an apartment, and on this basis demanded a housing loan. This is a black humor that kind of illustrates a sad real picture, which is also reflected in the Ombudsman's report on situations that individuals face in the field. That is why this report and all future reports are a necessity of our Slovenian space, as only the guardian and her co-workers and related institutions such as the Ombudsman face personal stories of individuals seeking justice within this institution. I assume that the report is a little cheaper in the area of health or patient rights because, in a great way, the Ombudsman is also a member of the Institute of Patient Rights, or representatives and representatives, who, regionally since 2008, when the Law on Patient Rights has been in force, are also taking care of this, increasingly, I am sure, unfortunately, a pressing area, and will be addressed by patients who, through the change in health legislation before us, and also with the real financial situation in the health scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, will not be aware of any further. I am also absolutely in favour of the opinion, as many have already said today, or the Ombudsman's recommendation that the Project Advocate – the child's voice should grow into a normative framework or law that will regulate this area. In addition, it is essential to stress the demographic fact that speaks of an ageing Slovenian society which does not take account of it in everyday or normative life. Perhaps that is why it is also time to think about the project as an advocate — the voice of an older adult. I purposely applied this definition, for a profession dealing with gerontology or aging society is looking for new expressions that would somehow put an adult or an older adult in a more equal position. At the conclusion of this meeting, I wish the Ombudsman and her team to continue to work successfully and, as it is said, I support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Mr Srečko Meh and Mr Mirko Brulc are preparing for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Guardian with co-workers! I must say that every year I follow with interest the Ombudsman's report and the Ombudsman's work throughout the year. I must say, Madam Guardian, I expect a lot from you, so I also supported you in the elections when the guardian was chosen. I am aware that you have inherited two, I will say a kind, unfortunate mandate, when Mr Hanžek, I must say, he obviously did not realize that he was very biased in a number of matters. Your predecessor somehow did not hope to distance himself from this, because in Slovenian society, Slovenia, about which one colleague has already spoken here, but from another point of view, some do not hope, because certain categories of people are systematically neglected. In such situations it is a little harder to stand up for those groups of people, but I hope this is over. When I read your introduction, I must say that you have stressed that you are also asking in this introduction whether Slovenia is still a rule of law. I am also pleased that it has been said that you have given some initiative to the prosecution, says Mrs Klasinc regarding Vegrad, that the prosecution must react. The former guardian did not respond throughout the entire mandate to what was happening to us – a robbery of a country that is a robbery of people that violates the fundamental human rights of many families, people to equal baselines. I hope that you will respond to the fact that the prosecution and the judiciary do not want to start implementing the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. That voice is needed. As mentioned above, prosecutors must, on duty, initiate proceedings if they detect criminal offences in public, on the basis of official duty. That goes for us, too. When, I mention several times, Mr Tynikar spoke in the Echoes that there had been 11 billion euros of money stolen from banks abroad, and no prosecutor, at least against an unknown perpetrator, had brought charges. When she was, say, an abuse of internal information. The fact that the owners of the Factor Bank paid dividends in August [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u51	Mr. Jerovšek, report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u52	Yeah, that's part of the report. Justice is very much dealt with and the prosecution has been warned about one thing, and I commended it. They paid off the dividends in millions of dollars, knowing it was just in front of the bankruptcy. It's a robbery. It's an abuse of internal information. I hope you'll warn the prosecutors to act. Madam Ombudsman, you have the opportunity to become a Slovenian pope in the field of human rights, whom we all rightly admire now, regardless of religious feelings, because what happened the day before, when he sanctioned the bishop of Limburg, who went to waste – I did not see anywhere that there was any money stolen, but it was not according to his moral, ethical principles. Therefore, in Slovenia, I ask you to warn us where this company has gone, that one of them is getting fat, riding yachts, and I don't know what, with the stolen money, and no one is ready to start the proceedings. Now you have in this pope a shining example of how you can when you run into general approval. Last but not least what he did in the case of Slovenian Archbishops, who are only objectively guilty in my opinion – what was not such in civil life in Slovenia! No one's ready to get away from these Februarys, these power centers, this oligarchy that's been robbing and stealing. Speaking of what the guardian can do, I'd like to give you a third hand now that I've given you two initiatives. Since the beginning of September, letters from readers relating to the question of Routs have been published in the Department. I've got one more sentence to say. Colleague Klasinc said that she did not feel that Catholics would be less valuable to us, but that she could often see that partisans were wronged. I think they're comfortable with authentic partisans like me, their offspring. For the authentic partisans have not dealt with revolution and revolutionary violence, and it is not a fault that no one in this country takes the stand for those who have abused partisanism and occupation to stand before the face of justice. And I'm not in favour of being locked up. Here we can accept, once again I have proposed, an act on the abolition of the judiciary by way of judicial proceedings. Whether a criminal has been found guilty in a war or in a war crime, let the court condemn him, let us grant him mercy, and let us accept the abolition act, so that he may live to relieve his sins. But no one in this country wants to work this way. In Del, I saw two letters: Jude Treven of Rovt and General Janez J. Šwejncer, a well-known General of Slovenian Territorial Defence, now retired war historian, attaching Mrs. Treven to what crimes took place in 1942 and after the war, when 218 people were killed in Rovet, totalling 300. What I am saying is in favour of Slovenian partisans and partisans. Mr. Schweitzer – I thought I'd find somewhere to react to this – there's no one else. He's a general, he's a recluse, he's also a famous leftist, and he says, "It would be appropriate for the letter of Judith Treven to serve as an indictment for a police investigation and a proposal for a historical survey of events in Routa and Dolomite in 1942." He further says that Dolomite squad commander Rado Pehaček – I think he was declared a hero after the war and he had all the privileges – systematically worked against the pro-Provistian sentiments of the locals to turn them away from partisanism, so they killed — in this article of 5 September all of this – and that the partisans were working under Commander Rad Pehačko, who is on monuments, as instructed by Italian intelligence agents, including names. And that was the primary goal of turning people away from the liberation front and the invader. These are amazing crimes, because they've been mass-murdering people. I hope we can do something together, me with my debate, to defend partisanism, authentic partisanism, which must be separated from the revolution. I also call on you that when our media continues – and I am not a lawyer – to speak across the board as the Roman Catholic Church has cooperated, you are also mentioned in Gorenska and Styria to react because it is a terrible injustice for Styria. All the priests were imprisoned and evicted, but there were no two traitors, two collaborators among them. This is generalized, and on the basis of this, a survey was conducted in a Styrian town years ago whether the Church in Styria had cooperated with the occupationists, and 70% of the people said that it was, but they were always most aware of the occupation. At that time, those who provoked such an opinion, the Communists, really cooperated with the invaders and walked the streets to greet Hitler with a raised hand. That's what I said. I expect this to be done. Madam Guardian, you are taking stock of the report that your predecessor has made regarding her period. Here you also say: "We still face the question of ethics in the public word..." – I absolutely agree –”...and they already think with knowledge that your master’s spoken word is an unspoken slave.” This would certainly apply in particular to the temple of democracy, to us, to the events, to the media, to the Internet and to many others to be enslaved. I know that there is an enemy speech or unethical expression here, but at the same time I am afraid that you believe that Parliament is the source of this. I believe that you know parliaments around the world, and you know that this is one of the most gentle, mild and inactive in this area, and that you are not advocating to bind your mouth to Members. There's a lot of real hate speech or what's now defined, I don't notice. He'll take it. Last time a colleague got carried away, or last year she thought we were pigs, but I forgive her for an ideological reason. She couldn't control herself. But I'm against talking about Parliament being a source. Parliament is such an institution that must have a call that must be sharp. I can speak harshly because no one can tell me the euro. I can be sharp, and I'll be sharp. Colleague Klasinc said earlier how sad it is for politicians to be appraised of what is political, what is absurd. I don't know what she meant because I was late today, because I had another job, but I think it was about my colleague Kociper, who I find very informally that I am talking about every point politically. She will probably never say that again because we were together in the Chairman's delegation on an official visit to the British Parliament. When we listened to the debate for half an hour, one of the secretaries, when we went out, said - not a word was about law or amendments, the politics itself. The minister also addressed the shadow minister by saying, "I'm glad you're interested in this. Enjoy the position of shadow minister – although the opposition has launched a debate – and I wish you many happy years in this position of shadow minister." They always wake up a little politically, but they have parliamentary democracy I don't know how long, and it's not a sin, it's normal. Even when we were with the leader of the lower house group, Mrs Eagle, President Weber asked what about the opposition. The lady was 8 years of Minister of Blair's Government and said: "Yes, normally, as always – the coalition has a majority, has its own projects, has its own plans and enforces them through parliament, but our task, and the task of the opposition is... – with these exact words she said –... that we are hindering her from doing so and that we are opposed to it." Think – if someone said something like that in Slovenia, it would be terrible. For this reason, I think Masha Kociper will no longer walk on the day, not in personal contact with me, even though I have told her many times that Parliament is wrong, that Parliament is a place where it is literally, and that is good, because it opens up a lot because there is much to see, and let us warn such institutions as the Ombudsman and others to take action or to act at least in accordance with their responsibilities. You also express concern that the acquisitions of a modern Slovenian country in the field of human rights are at stake. I'm worried, too, and I think they are. One is to defile this Slovenian country as a non-digatious state. Even the media sometimes convinces us that it is a mistake to have our own country. Unlike the last time I was in Lithuania: pride at every step to have their independent country back. The other day, even a former official from the previous system, when he stopped me as an MP in my city, told me that it was a big mistake to be under the Austrians, because we are not able to have our own countries. Think about it! Well, it's out of the question. There is a lot of danger in this country, and I must say that the only thing I have to be critical of is your written apology the last time we were going to deal with child abuse on a committee that was prevented. I thought you said you wouldn't interfere with public media policy. I think that the guardian must deal with child abuse, human rights, especially children's rights. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. He now has the floor, Mr Happy Meh, to prepare himself, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u54	Dear Lady Guardian, ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, I've changed the concept of how to speak here today, because then I'm going to fall into a way I don't approve of, and yet. First of all, I would say that I think it is extremely good that, on your report and at the suggestion of the recommendation, the Government has made a response report. This seems extremely important to me because the government has understood your institute and has already said on this basis what it has done, what it does and what it will do. That seems essential to me. If we talked about this today, we'd do one more step in what you're trying to do, what the Ombudsman's Institute and your associates are trying to do. And we didn't do that. I think it is appropriate to say that the 2011 report was not adopted in the same content as you proposed. The then coalition, which today is the opposition, at least to a good extent, then changed your recommendations and adopted its own, if this is a reflection of the actual state. This has severely affected the Institute itself, and I think it is right and necessary to talk about the recommendations, to see what the Government has done and to do as much as we have to in Parliament on this basis as possible. I would also like to say this, Madam Guardian, and thank you today for helping those two unfortunates before the National Assembly who protested and hardly anyone looked at them, and the Ministry of Labour. [[advertising from the hall]] You had the right to say this and the opportunity to say it if you thought it was important! Since you like to say that we shouldn't work and communicate like this, please don't say that. I'm talking about what the guardian did, what the Ministry did, and I didn't say what I did, because it didn't seem important to me. It seemed important to me that those in our country responsible for helping people do their part — the guardian, the ministry — and that these two eventually received what they were entitled to. In this connection, I think it is extremely important, ladies and gentlemen, that we say something, and above all much that we do not get paid contributions that are not paid, to protect in an exact and very operational way, including with the appropriate legislation that we must adopt with us. That is why my proposal today is to the Ombudsman, the Ministry, to all others: let us do something to ensure that these people do not experience the kind of injustice that is being done to them today, that the donkey state pays the income they lack, and then immediately takes it away from those who have done so with various machinations. That seems to me to be the most appropriate and right thing to do. I agree with what you said about the roads. The dosage of roads is one of the great injustices. But the problem is that it is imposed on the congregations. The problem is that these roads are not categorized before and when measured, they are categorized — substantially larger, essential dimensions. When people made houses the way we did — then we made roads for our use, and later this road became municipal or local, systematized, and that is why it is a problem. However, it is a problem that should be dealt with in an exact way in the country, with single compensation donkeys, with a uniform approach of any kind. I think something really needs to be done here. However, so that I could not get past all the things that have been discussed here today, it seems to me that I will conclude differently than I started. Mrs Janja Klasinc certainly did not have an enemy speech. She talked about this issue today as she thought it was right. And that's how I understand it. I think it's legitimate for us to be "clapping" here, as the previous speaker put it. But it's not right. That's not why we're here. We are here to express the opinion of citizens and citizens, our opinions, and to adopt appropriate laws for the benefit of citizens and citizens. That is why I think we are talking about what happened last year, because the report relates to 2012, and 2012 was the year that we can compare with 2011, and unfortunately the recommendations were not adopted. But it would be right to say operationally today that for what we have somehow entrusted to the Government, then we also control whether the Government will really do it, because it seems very important to me that these recommendations apply in life as well. But it seems unhygienic to me that the former police minister here today is talking about what the guardian should do, what she should do about what she should do at the police ministry, what the judiciary should do and what anyone else should do. We don't take this right, but it's not hygienic. It would be more important to talk about what happened last year, not about what happened five, 10 or 20 years ago. I'm not denying him anything about what he was doing in that system that I wasn't doing and what he was doing by profession — we were both in that system. Ladies and gentlemen, that system was bad for a lot of people, but for most people, it was good. One more thing. When you talk about what the article says, and what should the prosecution do — why did the prosecution not respond to the books on weapons? How many books were written? Why doesn't anyone say that? Why aren't we talking today about who's responsible for the hole in the Bell? When Pope Francis was mentioned here so many times, let him be calm, I would say, why not cover that hole that the taxpayers and taxpayers will settle for what the Bell and the Maribor bishops did! That's what we need to talk about here. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is extremely important that we today accept the Ombudsman's recommendations and the Slovenian Government's replies. This gives us the hope that we will respond to each other’s abilities and to what we are responsible and paid for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor, and the representative of the Government wanted to speak after him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Do not take the debate of your colleague Jerovšek as a mobile phone because we know and know what kind of dialogue you are always having. That's a bit of a joke. The 18th regular report is what I expected. One who idealizes things could have thought differently. The rise of problems, indicating that this almighty crisis is also indestructible in Slovenia and that the injustices experienced by citizens and citizens are growing – that is logical but not acceptable. I am positive that, at the election of the former Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenke Čebašek Travnik, and also at the election of Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, we had a happy hand to have good guardians and good guardians in at least these last two cases. However, if Mr Hanžek walks with demonstrators on the street and establishes a party – that is his right, he is a free citizen. Why shouldn't he? The entire team that works in this area also deserves commendation, and this report reflects this work. I also welcome the fact that an assessment has been made that the police have always responded adequately to the Ombudsman's recommendations. That's a good, good sign. Due to limited time, it is not possible to list the range of problems listed here, but let me mention at least some. Promoting intolerance, hate speech, public incitement to hatred and so on. I ask: is there anywhere else in Europe where the combination of quizzings, domestic publishers, uniforming is possible, and is it not very dangerous to promote hatred? Isn't volunteering a slave job? Who's working for free today? This is a slave's job, please. And the excuse is, you get practice and then you get a job. There's a figo! Overcrowded prisons have violated human rights not only for prisoners but also for law enforcement officers who work there under impossible conditions. In the National Assembly, are we aware of our responsibilities when we adopt unconstitutional laws that then produce very negative financial effects? This has been pointed out in this report. We have an assessment of what life would be like, not just the Slovenians and the Slovenes, but all Europeans and Europeans, if we didn't put terrible money into the removal of the sins of bankers and would devote it to education, health care, social protection, new jobs, culture and more? We don't have that grade. What else am I supposed to say? Only that, Madam Guardian, be sharp with your team to all of us, to all of those who contribute to the emergence of injustices. I am not optimistic that I will say that this report will be much cheaper next year, but we can contribute a lot. The previous regime has been mentioned several times in this House. I'm telling you, he's a criminal. Many have built large buildings — the devil, but now taxes will have to be paid. They were built in the previous system, and they got high pensions in the previous system and so on, and now such a blow — all of a sudden taxation of property. It's guilt. But that's not true – that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by a government representative, followed by a mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Since we are also taking the report at the Ministry, and not only the report, but also the Ombudsman's recommendations, very seriously, it is also right to come forward and say what we are going to do in this area in order to reduce the negative consequences that are happening to us in society, what we will do, what has been done. It seems important to me that everyone, regardless of who rules the government, which government, legal security and the protection of human rights we take very seriously, and that when someone has the opportunity to manage the country, they also do everything they can to protect the most vulnerable groups, not just to protect legal certainty through measures that can be implemented within the ministries. We have heard what period the report refers to, what is wrong, where, where we need to fix things. We are waiting for the report on what will happen to us in 2013 and what can be done to prevent it. We need to know who was changing anything when he had the chance. We took a very close look at the Ombudsman's recommendations. Some things we've already started to do, some are in process, and some are still going to. If I go a little bit in a row, given the limited time, we've looked at what's happening to us at the first point in the field of poverty. We know that the number of about 270 000 people living below the poverty line in Slovenia, so in the budget we did not agree to a reduction in social transfers, we did not agree to a debate on lowering the minimum wage because it seems to us that this is of exceptional importance because the minimum wage relative to the poverty risk basket is lower than what causes someone to be below what it means to be poor. It is therefore important, through the measures we have to do everything we can to help those groups living below the poverty line, despite having a lower risk of poverty, according to some statistics. It is true, however, that this is not to be satisfied because this data, as far as Eurostat is concerned, is from 2011. At the time, the material state of the population was somewhat different. This is why we also discussed the state of poverty in Slovenia on the parent committee and agreed to review the indicators at the annual level to see what is happening to us. The debate also took place at the level of the European Union. However, it is a fact that we have received a single assessment, given that several times the obvious is also by European institutions, that Slovenia gives much to the social state, that many transfers are made to the social state, but the fact is that, compared to other countries, Slovenia gives less for social transfers and gives them very effectively. We are among countries such as Austria and Luxembourg, which we are aiming for, these social transfers we have. At the Ministry, we believe that there is simply no more manoeuvres to reduce social transfers. We have an argument that we are not in that group of countries that gives the most for social transfers, but we are giving them very effectively. We have a problem with unemployment in Slovenia. In 2012, we experienced a record increase in youth unemployment. Unemployment among young people has increased by 10%. Otherwise, as of this year’s January, unemployment has gradually declined. It fell by about 7 to 8 000, although we cannot satisfy ourselves with this, because we know that we have to watch employment on the other hand, how many jobs have been created and how many young people have moved from Slovenia. So that this information, even because of some who have come out of records, because we are talking about registered unemployment, should not be satisfactory, and we still have to look at the number as worrying and take certain measures on the basis of this. We have therefore drawn up a concrete plan within the Ministry in the field of active employment policy. We've done a lot here. We have concrete results because this year we have included more than 100% of people in the active employment policy. About 7% of the more young people have been employed this year. In addition, we are preparing mentoring schemes because we want, together with the financial resources we have — fewer than in the past — to channel financial resources into such measures as to allow young people to have a job in the long term. So mentoring schemes are designed to enable young people to enter those jobs that are now occupied with people who are before retirement and who know very much. We will encourage this knowledge to be passed on and that young people remain in these jobs. We are increasing public works funds in the new budget. For 17 million there will be more of these funds, which means that in 2014 there will be 9 000 new integrations in public works, which is once more than ever. As part of the project, we want to make a large range of measures already under way within the Ministry and to reach a greater number of young people's involvement in active employment policies. Not only that, we have already passed an intervention law that will provide employers with incentives to contribute to the employment of young people. This shall enter into force on 1 November. There are also some measures where we try to do everything we can to mitigate the situation we are facing in the framework of our powers at the Ministry. It is true, however, that without economic development, the added value of jobs will no longer be or will no longer be jobs in the market, and we must focus on this. We've also had an initiative. We have succeeded in an initiative at European level where Slovenia will be entitled to between 8 million and 10 million resources, which we will also be able to direct to the employment of young people in the eastern Slovenian region, which has suffered even more from this segment of the economic and financial crisis. Not only that, we also know the consequences of the ZUJF, which was adopted in 2012, but we know the analysis of the Institute, which spoke about what anomalies some of the social legislation has brought. We have accepted this responsibility and will go into the changes in social legislation that are already under way, and we will also consider it on the parental committee after the November holidays. But we often like to be critical only of those who manage the country at some point. Let's say we haven't made changes to the ZUJF, it's hard to do, but we've taken a lot of things away from a particular group of people. Social legislation will help us find that part of the funds within the Ministry and try to mitigate these problems with minor changes. I've already told young people what we're up to. At the Ministry, we also focused our priority on preventing the grey economy and focused more specifically on prevention of work and black employment. Here are four specific laws: the Labour Market Regulation Act, where we are talking about limiting agency workers – this is very important. We know that in many reports this has been presented, but unfortunately not arranged. We're finally getting a handle on this. Fewer agencies that will have to deal professionally with this. It is very important that for the first time in a long time we save the exploitation of workers and thus ensure legal certainty for them. Maternal records – very important – that the employer will have to report the worker to insurance on the day of the beginning of work, not within 8 days as it has been so far. If an inspector found such a worker on the site, the employer said he had just begun, and we were again in a circle of violations of various rights. The Labour Inspection Act is in a procedure where we strengthen the inspection service, transfer certain powers to the Customs Administration, and a law on the prevention of work in black, where we not only sanction but also with some [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, followed by Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear guardian with co-worker, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Regrettably, wherever capital rises on a scale of values, human dignity is lost. Not just in Slovenia. Slovenia is entangled in a European space that is unfortunately ruled by capital. Even though we are trying and sometimes throwing sand in our eyes that Europe is not such a continent. I hope that as a society, and I believe that we are still on the right track, we will maintain sensitivity to individual fates or people's stories. Finally, we are reminded of this on a daily basis by the Ombudsman’s report. The report for last year is, according to my assessment, a good section of the current state of affairs in our society. Far from everything being perfect. However, I will not speak at all because I am limited in time. Perhaps I would continue on only one segment, which I personally follow more personally and which was also pointed out by the Ombudsman in a report by the Government's Ministry of State, Alenka Bratušek, to examine the findings of the Institute of Social Protection, which the Secretary of State spoke briefly before me. The government of Alenka Bratušek has examined the reports, and at our tables the matter is already coalitionly coordinated. There is a series of measures, the effects of the past social protection legislation, which has undoubtedly shown certain shortcomings, which I believe we will have largely eliminated in the coming week – if I am not mistaken – on 6 November, the meeting of the home labour force will be largely overturned. I hope that with the support of all political parties in the National Assembly. If I really touch briefly on what the new social protection legislation or amendments to this legislation will bring, this is at the same time a response to some of the accusations that have been made — that the government of Alenka Bratusek is interfering with and destroying the social state. Indeed, in just a few key points, you will see what are the areas where the situation of the weakest in the new legislation is improving. As for single-parent families, we are introducing an increase in the allowance for single-parent families per child for cash social assistance from 26.52 euros to 53 euros. We introduce only part of the child allowance in other rights under the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, for example in the case of kindergarten subsidies. The total child allowance is now taken into account as an additive and, as proposed, the allowance for single parent families and 20% of the first child allowance in the first class will not be taken into account. If I move on to the area of older recipients of social transfers. In persons who are permanently unemployed, permanently unemployed or unemployed, women over 63 years of age or men over 65 years of age, or in families with such a person, we introduce that the money of a single person up to EUR 2 000 500 is not taken into account as assets. Now this price is 795.66 euros, or up to EUR 3 000 500 for the family, and I will no longer mention it. Censuses are increasing, which I believe is an absolutely positive measure in these times of crisis for those who are most at risk. Many individuals have decided to waive the right to a protective allowance in order to record the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property. In this regard, we introduce that the limitation on the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the protective allowance may be limited only to the amount of two thirds of the value of the aid received. We introduce access to the disability committees of the STIZ to obtain an opinion on permanent incapacity for work and consequently entitlement to a protective allowance. Even in the area of families with children in education, the situation is improving. State scholarships for underage students are being introduced, but we also maintain a higher amount of child allowance for underage students who are not eligible for a state grant. There are also subsidised snacks under certain conditions. In the area of large families, we introduce that savings of three minimum family incomes are no longer taken into account as assets in determining eligibility for financial social assistance. This is where we increase censorship. We introduce only part of the child allowance in other rights under the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources. Now, let's say, income takes into account the whole children's allowance. We are improving the conditions for obtaining exceptional financial social assistance. For example, we are instituting the acquisition of exceptional financial social assistance for beneficiaries of a protective allowance, which, for example, may be newly eligible for this aid for emergency roof repair, heating and post payment. Currently, they can only benefit from this aid for the payment of costs incurred by natural disasters, floods and so on. We introduce a change in the consideration of income in the child allowance, the State grant and the reduced payment of kindergarten for persons receiving cash social assistance. Here, too, I would like to point out that the warning has been taken into account that income will no longer be taken into account one or two years ago, but that current income will be taken into account and thus the current situation of the family in a crisis situation. We are introducing a more favourable consideration of informal incomes, where student work is also considered. We are introducing a free mindset for monetary social assistance and a protective allowance. We introduce a more favourable account of the change in periodic incomes, extend the range of beneficiaries to financial social assistance and a protective allowance by increasing the amount of assets that are not taken into account for the acquisition of monetary social assistance or a security allowance. The payment of social security services and the family assistant should be subject to new income only in the last three months. A number of positive measures will be taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek, and I believe that any indication that this government is taking action into the social state and destroying the social state is unfounded. I believe that mistakes have been made in the past and, I say, if we maintain a sense of empathy, we will correct the mistakes that have been made, even though the crisis is – at least so much so that we will not interfere with those really minimum standards of the most socially sensitive people. So much, because for a few seconds, I still have to leave my colleague behind, absolutely. I will also support the Ombudsman’s report or recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Franz Jurša, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Respected guardian of human rights with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, everyone on behalf of their Group of Members has given an assessment of this report, so since I have very little time, I will not talk about it. But I would point to two, three things that seemed important to me when you presented the report yourself. One of these is related to people who provide land at the time of restoration of municipal, local, local roads. Here I feel that they are somehow in a position when the congregation decides to rebuild a road — with this work, I would say, in a way good work for the one who is on that road home. Get, I don't know, a new asphalt, get a sidewalk, set up municipal infrastructure from plumbing to sewerage, including telecommunications connections and so on. It seems to me that this property has become much more valuable than it was before. It is therefore appropriate for me to take this into account when we discuss payments for such land. But I am in favour of being, when regional and main roads are being rebuilt, and when highways are being built, this is a single compensation that we might be talking about here and here. Another thing that seems important to me. For example, someone decides and proposes his agricultural land through the congregation to turn into a construction site. You fill out the form and you want it, the congregation starts the procedure, maybe leads it to a place along with the relevant ministries, and it can happen that some individual managed to turn such an agricultural land into a construction site. When it began to change, the land was worth, say, one euro, and when this land turned into construction, 50 euros and more. Then a young family wants to buy a parcel and has to pay the tax — this young family, not the one who got it in some way donated by the state. That's something to think about, too. In recent times, smaller companies with 10, 20 employees have been faced with the problem of obtaining labour on the market, because we know where and how the country operates or how we look at this entrepreneurial work – many times it happens that either they do not get a job or work on the market is undervalued so that they can't even take it. With their 10, 20 people day in and day out, they're sinking more. They don't hope to forgive anyone, because they have to pay the benefits for which they don't have the resources. I wonder what we can do here or say that we must pay attention to such things. Dear Guardian of Human Rights, I wish you a great deal of wisdom in handling such matters and all the good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Now he has the floor, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to everyone, a nice greeting to the nanny with a coworker! Given that I am very limited to my debate, I had to let some things go from what I wanted to say. However, I would like to say and call on the Ombudsman in particular to take care of the situation of older citizens and citizens. You know, the overall risk of poverty in Slovenia for 2012 is 13.5% and for older than 65 years, even 19.6%. In men, it's slightly lower, and in women, it's even very high, 25 percent. In single-member families or households over 65 years of age, the rate is 33.3% in men and even 44% in women. This signals the need to take care of this population. Look, the decline in employment at home for the elderly is increasing due to the inability to pay. The younger ones take them and bring them back to their home, and there they are not provided with adequate health and care. Last year, as many as 33 thousand 730 pensioners gave up their protective allowance. This gives some signal that poverty in Slovenia is increasing. Let's not doubt it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr Franz Pukšič in the hall, so the next debater is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Lady Guardian of Human Rights! I will not tell you what you have to do and what must be done in the next report because I believe that the Ombudsman's institution is autonomous, independent, and that what the report says is the result of what people who felt deprived of their human rights have said. However, I would like to express my appreciation for the very correct summary report which did not come about in your cooperation – it was the cooperation of your deputies, deputies and three deputies – that at the end of your term you would not have what has been heard today about the work of the last two guardians. My memory goes back to the first report that Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik defended. At that time, that report was raised against all previous ones and received universal praise. I hope that, at the end of your term of office, this thanks will not slip to the level of any other judgments and that we will not, together with sadness, find that it is happening in this world, as the Latin proverb says: sic transit gloria mundi. Now to what was said. I cannot imagine what a balanced report of the Ombudsman should be. Perhaps someone imagines it this way: if we detect right-wing extremism, we do not talk about it for as long as we do not find left-handed. Probably someone who explains it like that. Some of our European Members in the European Parliament also explain matters this way. What appears to be a special value in the Ombudsman's reports, and this is also stated in your recommendations, is that you treat personal data with great respect and that in one of the recommendations you also require that all procedures against the Ombudsman be protected. No personal data interference is allowed. This is very important because in the debate we have heard a number of names, many specific cases, including the names of the already dead, and when we demand a rosary of conduct, we ourselves in our own words of this petition and do not adhere to this requirement. I agree with the recommendation which imposes a very responsible treatment of the public word on institutions and political function holders, but we must therefore not interfere with private conversations and treat them in the same way as we do the word spoken in public. In your report, I've noticed, say, especially what it refers to at the end of last year's demonstration. I'm waiting for the Ombudsman's report. In your report, you have committed yourself to examining with particular care the reports of the Commissions dealing with what has been happening in police procedures and during demonstrations. That seems to be of great importance to me. I'd say I fully support the recommendations. However, I would like to propose, at the end of the drafting of the decision to be adopted by the National Assembly, on the recommendation that we address any editorial shortcomings that have now arisen. In fact, the last two recommendations in the framework of constitutional rights, recorded under numbers 12 and 13, should be included [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Leila Hercegovac. I will give the floor to Mrs Nussdorfer's proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u68	There's not enough time. Your Honor! The Office of the Ombudsman has done a lot in the Republic of Slovenia. He's not missing any longer, and that's what I'm worried about. We will all contribute, with the rule of law, ethics, morality and human relations, to the National Assembly in order to reduce its work. The Government shall monitor the work of the Ombudsman and shall monitor the legislation to the extent possible and shall also amend it in this light with certain recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u70	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Secretary of State! I would like to thank everyone at the end for the very comprehensive contributions, your thoughts, suggestions, the idea of a report that I presented at the outset, which is the work of many experts, deputies and also advisers to the Ombudsman – the entire team led by the previous guardian Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik last year. Since you are the one who will and you have already changed legislation in the past, as a guardian, I am pleased that some of the recommendations made in the course of the past year have already come true, that the Government has also identified itself to many recommendations and given its opinion. I lay on your soul and heart that when you change legislation, which in these times usually changes even to the detriment of the weak, you do it with a shaking hand to always think of those we cannot and cannot take any more because they are already on the verge of survival. The Ombudsman always fights for the weakest — children, the elderly, the disabled, children with special needs, all those who cannot or cannot help themselves. The Ombudsman shall work on the basis of the initiatives he receives. It can also open up broader themes when it discovers that there is something wrong in society, that there is a need to talk more about a topic. Without the consent of individuals, he cannot open the darkness because you may not agree. This has been the case here and there today — some injustice that is also wronged by a long - term trial, but these matters are being resolved on the basis of initiatives. The discussion was also about free legal aid. I see you've got a problem in this area. It's also being detected by the Ministry. The Ombudsman is working hard this year to extend free legal aid to those who urgently need it, but in fact they do not meet all the conditions to obtain it, either because, as has been written down, a few acres, meters of land too much, or because of income that goes beyond censorship, but unfortunately in these times of crisis in families, he is often burdened with many credits. In this area, we have already done something in cooperation with the Slovenian Bar Association, which is willing to offer for such cases, which will be of wider importance to the public and not just for a specific initiator, a free lawyer. That's a lot of progress. In the area of housing, there has also been a lot of talk today about how we perceive it, how necessary it is to adopt a policy for the whole country. Here I can point out that we just put the survey and its results on our website yesterday. For when we travel in the field, we find that in many congregations there are no arranged housing problems for people, not even the most urgent accommodations, for we know what pressures people face when they have to from their own home, but some have this well arranged. That's why we did a thorough survey. We have received only part of the answers — we would need the whole picture in the country — but we can already see from this that there is an urgent need to do something for our people who can stay with children, with families the object of distress, which is extremely great. I would also like to draw attention to a consultation that will be held in the State Council, because there has been a talk about the environment, what we are leaving children, what will be the land tomorrow, what will be like with noise, smell, PM10 particles. Right here, in the State Council, there will be an environmental consultation in this building on November 27th, because we feel with the Ombudsman and we have not always warned in vain that this is a priority and an urgent topic. To the greatest extent, we must note tolerance — this is what the Ombudsman's report says — in terms of gender, religion, property, including sexual orientation. Everyone deserves the same attention, the same treatment, no offense to the feelings of these people. There's the media. Through the Ombudsman’s media, he alerts, enters all homes, in various ways points out violations, and some may even be opened or closed with the help of the media later. That is why we want such cooperation. We also work openly and transparently in cooperation with ministers – many of them have been in talks this year – including with representatives of all other services in the country mentioned here today as being stuck or working too slowly. We have certainly been able to see that we are completely alone, that we want the rule of law that works, works quickly, works effectively, as well as the preservation of the social state. When talking about convicts — those who are deprived of their liberty — our national preventive mechanism cares about them. I must also stress the Ombudsman's great concern for all who are employed in these institutions, either that they are police officers, who are also sometimes violated by their rights in the workplace, even because of the lack of money, because of the impossible conditions in which some live, the means they work, as well as the convicts and those who care for them. In this area, the Ombudsman drew attention to prison overcrowding and also to the fact that those who care for convicts, guards and employees in our prisons are not well cared for. We also work with the union, negotiate and talk with the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Authority. Sexual violence against children. There's no exception when it comes to a doctor. It is also the doctor’s duty to report a crime if he detects it — there is no silence. All services involved in the detection of offences at the expense of children are obliged to report on this. This imposes the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence and also many adopted protocols that bind both education and health care. It was about the right to water. We are certainly aware of this and in our report we are talking in just two places about the right to healthy drinking water. This will also be discussed at the environmental consultation. We'd like to see some less detailed reports, and we hope it does. All of us, the whole country, all the jobs – for everything we have made recommendations, we are responsible that this will one day happen, that the Ombudsman’s recommendations will be respected, and that people will sometimes, I hope, come to us with reports that their rights have been realized, bring out beautiful wishes and conclusions that there is much better. When are you going to be? We can set ourselves a new task in difficult times, as Brasch said: "As the paper dragon rises into the wind, the greatest problems can give us new powers." If we are in trouble, and we are certainly in this moment, we can get new power and new momentum to do more, because when it is nice, the Ombudsman has little work to do, and even in the country we can say that there is no need to change legislation. Legislation also needs to be changed in view of the current situation, which is critical, as they are often called in Europe and as we listen to in the media. However, I am an eternal optimist, and I hope that every year I will be able to find out that many of the recommendations have been made and that we will be at the Ombudsman's 20th anniversary – it was mag. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 1. 2015 will take 20 years – to prepare a report on how the Ombudsman's initiatives and recommendations were implemented, and then we will say: the Ombudsman worked and the Ombudsman was respected. Thank you for all your contribution to this and, above all, to patience in our society, because you are certainly a mirror for all, even for young people who accompany you and watch us all and learn from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. With that, all the debaters you wanted got the floor. But since we have some time left, I would ask if anyone else would like to discuss it. We'll put it to the debate. Twelve panellists have been reported, which means minutes and 56 seconds per debater. Mr Srečko Meh is the first to be reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. With all that we have said in the National Assembly today, I believe that we have also said, it seems to me that the message of the Ombudsman is most important – that we understand each one’s task to do the maximum in our field, that we can do what we can, that we are patient, and that we are not giving negative omens to those who are watching and listening. If we're gonna do this, then we're definitely gonna do everything we have to do. The right to water can also be the right of every resident. Unfortunately, at times we also face the situation of having water in front of the house, but some do not want to join in, in a very small case. Almost always there are two sides of the medal, where we should find the right solution, however, to provide water to that citizen or citizen — this is usually the responsibility of the congregation — so that this healthy, clean and drinking water can also be obtained. That's why I think it's so thoughtful to talk to you, to all those who are civil society and civil initiative and who are trying to say what needs to be done and understand why something can't be done. Besides, I wish you a lot of patience and success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. He's having a little reaction to some of the shows. Why the D.A. didn't respond to the books on guns, you asked, Mr. Meh. Please, of course, it is, you just have to read a little, and you will see that the prosecution has done everything until 1996 and that Barbara Brezigar had nothing to do with it. The D.A. investigated everything and rejected everything because everything was fine. That's what the DA said without Barbara Brezigar, there'll be no mistake, because you'll just stick together, like your habit. Before 1990, the system was good for a large majority. If they didn't kill you, then he was good, yes, Mr. Meh. A few tens of thousands of people have been killed, that's what to say. For those sure the system wasn't good. Several thousand people were deprived of their civil rights, so the system wasn't good. But he was good for the privileged and you. What does the former police minister say to the guardian? So, according to your logic, as a former Minister of the Interior, we don't have any police ministers and even sometimes we didn't have them, and we might know that – I can't speak anymore because I was a minister, or how? If you're coming from the right, you can't talk anymore because you were a minister. It's a perverse logic and magnification. You want to go back to the time before 1990, I understand. Mr Hanžek also has the right to walk on the street, but those who have walked on the street and their organizers should say what Mr Lubei said yesterday: "The demonstrations have achieved their purpose. Kangler, Janša and Gorenak are gone." Do you see? It is necessary to say this, and this must also be said to Mr Hanzk, that because the people did not send him to Parliament but sent him out of Parliament, he has the right to walk on the street, but not, I will say, to stand up as an organiser to throw away democratically elected power. Oh, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I would ask for peace in the Chamber to conclude this debate. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat is the next debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would like to stress briefly once again that this report by the Ombudsman is meticulously composed and draws attention to all those issues and situations in our society relating to human rights violations. I am also pleased that the Commission has confirmed all the Ombudsman's recommendations for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. However, since time does not allow me to say anything more, I would like to draw attention or focus on the problems of infringements of rights in the working relationship which seem to me particularly important and very tender in our society lately. Thus, it seems to me that it is important to note that human rights are violated when they are not paid to workers' salaries that they deserve to violate human rights, when social security contributions are not paid, that human rights are violated because of the various suffering in the workplace, because of the mobile phone, and so on, that the problem is also the unfair work of employment agencies, the chain. That's what the nanny talked about today. Therefore, I appeal to the inspection services to really tighten control and to take appropriate or strict action. However, I want to continue my work successfully for the Ombudsman and all my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Miriam Bon Klanjšček, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u78	Madam Ombudsman, thank you very much for your comprehensive report. Your efforts and work indicate that in the Republic of Slovenia we advocate equality for all citizens and citizens. We especially want to protect human rights, tolerance among people, and especially to advocate for vulnerable groups of people, such as children, disabled people, older people, sick people and powerless people, who cannot fight for their own rights. Your preventive role is extremely important because it is easier to prevent than to treat when a person is in distress and suffers pain, both physical and mental. I can't imagine what modern interactive media means today, such as Facebook. I recently read that a young teenage girl committed suicide because she was unable to endure the psychological pressures and humiliations of her peers that she had received through this interactive medium. Today, in addition to the lack of direct and personal contacts of young people, I see a greater danger in impersonal Internet communication, as what is written can work so convincingly for young people to despair and see no more meaning in life. If parents and all those working with children in their profession do not stress the importance of human values, such as respect for one another, respect for diversity and so on, then we cannot prevent violence and other behavioral disturbances. I believe that much more could be done in the field of young people's awareness. We will have to talk about this in the media and to a greater extent encourage young people in schools. Because I'm running out of time, that's all I'm gonna say. I am confident that you will continue to be so successful in solving people's problems and in alleviating their plight and continuing to support the well-being of all those in need. The report you filed, I'll support it. Thanks again and bravely forward!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u80	I'll be very brief. I am pleased that the film industry in Slovenia has also made some films or at least two of them, and I have seen them recently, which have contributed greatly to improving the relationship between us. Chefurji raus is one such film that speaks very precisely about this, and we end up without words, because the perspective of these young people in the Slovenian environment is zero. Another film is the Class Enemy, which shows relationships in a class community, the problem of family and so on, that I don't explain. I've seen this movie twice — a crowded hall. How people accept it — no ridicule, no comment, no silence, and that's good. I think that, Madam Guardian, such films also contribute to our awareness that your work and the work of the entire team is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u82	In the context of human rights, the documentary Children with Petrič directed by Zupanic is probably to be added in the context of human rights, which should probably be a mandatory reading in order to be aware that many people suffered innocently. I'm sorry that today, when we talk about the Ombudsman's report, when we somehow feel new energy and new hope that this institution will work, as it seems that some, when more than tens of thousands of innocent victims, killed people are mentioned, sigh, "Oh come on, come on!" I'm sick of a sigh like that. I think all qualified people should feel this empathy. I must say that when I spoke earlier about Mr Hanzk, that he saw biasedly, that he was so perceptive, that he probably did not realize that he was very biased, I did not say that today he should not set up parties and demonstrate. He's absolutely entitled. Thank God he's doing this because now his position is better seen and noticed by people, and they will also be able to evaluate the work at that time with real vats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you. I am grateful from the heart for the work they have done. If everyone was in a position to do so, that is his personal right. The number of co-workers and co-workers was also growing, and also, as the individual guardians did, co-workers and co-workers did. I wish to maintain our independent position and to show the mirror to this society in advance, because that is the only way we are on the right track to improve human relations. Here we must maintain sensitivity to problems, problems, violations of everything between us, however difficult sometimes. If believers demand that their rights be respected, then I expect the right of autonomy of the school premises to be respected equally. I refer, for example, to the secondary forestry school in Postojna, where the consultation was organised, and this case is also described. However, I would like to spend these last seconds thanking all the authors and authors of the Ombudsman's report, wishing that in the future, with such accuracy and consideration, we would address the very personal problems of individuals and that we should endure in an unalways friendly position when they have to oppose the well-run mechanisms. Thanks again, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I'd like to make three brief opinions. First, there was a tragic event in Maribor today, and three people were killed in the shooting. According to unofficial data, the victim was supposed to be an employer and an ex-employee. We can predict that there have been unresolved accounts, and such time bombs are likely to be something else in Slovenia in these times of crisis. We must work, we and you, a respected guardian with our coworkers, to prevent such stories. We have to stop this in every way we can. The next thing I want to warn you about is mobile. So this is in some way the suffering of people, which is very difficult to prove, and again in these difficult times, we can only predict when we lose an average of 81 jobs a day, that workers who are subjected to the mobbing do not hope to initiate proceedings against their employers. And one last thing I'd like to say about sensational media coverage. It is not only the media that makes sensationalist statements, the problem is those they launch, that is, those people who launch sensationalist statements, and then the media just summarizes them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u88	Nicely greeted! Today, it has already been said that the report is a mirror of society, but I say that it is an even better mirror for state institutions and state authorities to take it seriously and to take it seriously in their work. I am pleased, Your Honor, that you have once again pointed out the exceeded limit values of PM10 dust particles in Zasavje as well. Since 2006, the State should have acted. The government in the response report states that the plans are in coordination to prepare, but we are slowly losing our patience, and I regret that there is no minister here today, who is also responsible for the environment, and I reiterate my call on the Government to finally put the plans on the table or put them into practice. If I mention some of the children's rights. I am pleased that in recent years the trend is that a child has the right to both parents. That even nutrition is given to more and more children. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the increased trend of double custody and give this thought — what if parents move in with their children every other week? First of all, I think that children live with one parent for one week, one week with another, but let's just say that children live in one apartment, and parents move in. One parent, another parent, is said to place more emphasis on parental rights than on children’s rights. Those in foster care would also be reminded of the field of regression, which we talk about a lot, but our foster parents do not get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As the last one, I give the word of Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear Lady Guardian! I would have warned you of two things. I didn't even mean to advertise, anyway. Your report also noted the problem of housing shortages. The same report, or perhaps a little better, was presented by the superintendent who was working ahead of you. For this reason, I decided, together with my colleague, to introduce a law into the parliamentary procedure, which would allow particularly vulnerable and social groups, young people and also older people who find it difficult to get their rents. Sadly, this law was rejected by the opposition, who today has a mouthful of sympathetic words. We wanted to bring this law to an end by means of a reduced procedure, and through this law we could quickly start building new apartments, and this would also solve this housing problem. There's no way we'd have any fraud or any other purpose. And that. When next time you are with the media at breakfast, I strongly recommend that you place your heart on the media and put it on the heart to report more positive news, because these populist news and bad news mainly on two commercial televisions and the yellow media cause depression in people, resulting in poor health, the burden of medical bills, and suicide in extreme force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I was a little too fast, so we have two more debaters. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We are considering the Ombudsman's annual report, which is of quality, but this is just the beginning. Work's underway. And it is right that the Guardian warned of certain shortcomings. Above all, I am pleased that the Ombudsman has assessed the good work, the good results of the international comparison of children's knowledge, which means that schools are doing well. At the same time, he also pointed out that it is not possible to intervene in the normative parts simply without professional analysis and some graduality. The Ombudsman is particularly concerned with children, the elderly and the disabled. Here I would like to draw attention to the urgent need for a law on personal assistance. Of course, this is especially the case with us in the National Assembly and in the Government, which must prepare this law. When we talk about child rights and abuse, sexual abuse of children, we must have zero tolerance here. The Ombudsman would therefore point out that already in 2012 certain content, inappropriate content or questionable content of literary works containing elements of child pornography, animal torture and detailed descriptions of violent acts were noted. I therefore appeal to experts in the field of development psychology to participate in the selection of literature for primary school. I'm asking the guardian what her opinion is on this. However, the treatment of authors who have been convicted of acts related to the above-mentioned content should also be regulated. Here I am talking about amendment 107.a of the article, which speaks of persons who have been convicted by law being no longer allowed to approach children or to act in certain charitable or other activities where they are [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Now we're really starting to wind down. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable guardian with co-workers! I'm sorry he won't allow time to touch all the areas, though. According to the report, your recommendations and your introduction today can be seen that Slovenia is far from just and not a legal state. It saddens me that you have come to realize today that we are not even a patient country or that intolerance is a very big problem, which we have witnessed in these rooms today, which, of course, grieves me as a Member. I would touch on the issue that you are also dealing with, namely, the problems of deaf and deaf students and students. I'm meeting myself with a college student from New City. I have to say that the problem is not only with the students or providing interpreters, but it is sad that the educational system does not listen to these people, adjusts the programmes or allows them to participate in the program in a qualitative manner, even though they themselves are capable and have extraordinary results. Next thing you know, it's a down payment. True, these people who face assignments face very difficult problems. Just today, a lady on Facebook told me how executioners treat her. And this is really about violating rights. Let me conclude with the thought: "Do not listen to those who tell you what to do, but listen to those who encourage you to do what you feel is right in your heart." These are the words of Mr. Zig Ziglar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a recommendation. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 11. This concludes this agenda item. We still have a procedural proposal. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u96	Madam Vice-President, I hope that you have noticed my observation that recommendations 12 and 13 should be made under the heading Discrimination. It's an editorial, not something else. Nothing needs to be changed, just so that it doesn't go wrong, because these are recommendations that specifically refer to the chapter of Discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u97	All right, we've got a heads-up. Your proposal will be examined by the professional services. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a bill amending the Social Security Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members, first signed by Bran Kurnjek. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Protection, submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption pursuant to Article 88 of the Constitution and Article 19 of the Law on Members, with the first-signed Mr Kurnjek. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council and representatives of the public concerned, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and had no comments on it. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Government, which does not support the proposal. The Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons in its opinion also did not express support for the law. During the course of business, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments. The representative of the proponents said in the introductory explanation that they had put forward this proposal in good faith to remove another unnecessary obstacle to the economy by means of amendments. The amendment proposed removes the regime that extends the pay system of the public sector to private operators as well. In Article 46 of the Act amending the Law on Social Protection, which refers to the very content of the tender for the award of a concession for the performance of a public service, they would delete the eighth indent of the first paragraph. This talks about the very content of the invitation to tender, which should also include the indication that the labour relations of employees are regulated in accordance with collective agreements, laws and other acts applicable to employees in public institutions in the field of social protection. Following the introduction of the law, they consulted on the basis of all the information and professional arguments obtained and decided not to insist on the law. As proponents, they listened to all the professional arguments and found that, despite the fact that they would like to relieve the economy slightly, the proposal also poses certain risks that are too great at this point to insist on the proposal. In view of the initial explanation by the representative of the applicants, the Committee adopted the conclusion that the draft Act amending the Law on Social Protection was not supported or not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Branko Kurnjek for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! In my opinion as a proposaler, I will also state the position of our parliamentary group at the same time, because we were the only proposers for amending this law. In Article 46 of the Act, which deals with the content of the invitation to tender for the award of a public service concession, the proposal to amend the law introduced in the Civil Service Charter would delete the eighth indent of the first paragraph. The eighth indent provides guidance that the content of the invitation to tender should also include the indication that the employment relationships of employees are regulated in accordance with collective agreements, laws and other acts applicable to employees in public institutions in the field of social protection. In short, this means that a proposal to amend the law would remove the regime that extends the pay system of the public sector to private operators as well. We have tabled a proposal to amend the law in the parliamentary group with good intentions to remove another unnecessary obstacle to the economy and to follow the principle of free economic initiative set out in Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the amendment of the law, we have obtained reservations from the public concerned and have pointed out in particular that the law could put additional pressure on workers with a possible reduction in wages. Let me say that our purpose was precisely reversed because the wage system in the public sector is rigid. This amendment of the law should also have a strong impact on the non-compliance with standards and standards. I would like to make it clear that we have been skeptical about this in the Civil Gazette, because the prescribed standards and regulations are separate from the pay system, but we have decided not to insist in amending the law that we do not really intervene in the categories mentioned above. We were also aware or better of the fact that the adoption of such a law could have a domino effect, say, in education, in health care and elsewhere. Unfortunately, our society is not ready for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. For the presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body, the representative of the Government also has the floor, but at the moment I do not see any representatives of the Government in the Chamber. So we are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members. The first position will be presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and on its behalf by Mr Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much for saying so, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party do not support this bill and support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We did the same at a meeting of the parental committee. We oppose the law in the parliamentary group because of the principle of equality of all business entities operating in the public social protection network. Concessionists become part of a public network by obtaining concessions. Therefore, they are not private persons, as is mistakenly thought, and therefore must respect the conditions and regulations governing the operation of the public social network, including the regulation of labour relations in accordance with collective agreements and other acts applicable to employees in the public network. They must therefore work under the same conditions, otherwise they could even talk about unfair competition. The provisions under collective agreements, the compulsory payment of wages and the fulfilment of workers' rights do not in any way constitute a restriction on the freedom of business or the restriction of an economic initiative, but rather constitute an equal respect for the rights of all employees performing such services. It is also possible to agree with workers' representatives that all in the same network must be subject to the same standards and standards and labour costs. We welcome the decision of the applicants to take account of the professional arguments and to propose on the committee themselves the rejection of the bill. That is why we will also vote in the SLS Group in favour of the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. After the drafter of this law had thus withdrawn from the proposal of the law, the Labour Authority concluded that the proposed Act amending the Law on Social Protection was inappropriate for further consideration. Therefore, the debate on the content of the law itself is in fact irrelevant today, as the applicant no longer shows interest in adopting this law. In the DeSUS Group, we cannot simply go beyond the content of this bill, since it is very important for the functioning of social institutions, especially institutions in the field of home operations for older citizens. The Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code has proposed that collective agreements, laws and other acts applicable to employees in public institutions in the field of social protection should no longer apply to employees employed in concessionaires providing such services. When it comes to the implementation of activities that fall under the auspices of the public network of health and social services, i.e. when it comes to the provision of services in the public interest and are necessary and necessary for the life, health and residence of people dependent on foreign assistance, it is important that these services are provided in the same scope and quality, regardless of whether they are involved in a public institution or a private concessionaire. It is therefore important that employees of both types of employers are treated in the same way as they are practically the same type of work. If the owners of private homes for the elderly with a concession no longer have to pay the employees under collective contracts for health and social protection, only the minimum wage could be paid to the workers. Not only would this at the expense of employees constitute unfair competition for public institutions, since the dumped prices would allow older people to take over from public homes, it would also be very likely that the quality of services would fall. In any event, it is essential that employees of this activity are treated equally, regardless of whether they work in a public institution or in a concessionaire, because they do the same type of work. Working with the elderly in a nursing home with a concession is just as difficult as working in a public nursing home. I think it is right that the applicant has assessed that the adoption of the proposed amendment would have unacceptable consequences for the quality of the services provided. In the DeSUS Group, we will vote in favour of the Committee's decision that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u106	Your Honor! In the New Slovenia Group, we could not support a bill that poses a number of risks to both social workers and insured persons. The proposal provides that private individuals who have a concession for the provision of social security services should not be subject to labour relations of employees in accordance with collective agreements, laws and other acts applicable to employees in public social institutions. In the view of New Slovenia, this would be unacceptable as public institutions in the field of social protection would put in an unequal position compared to concessionaires. Both are part of a public network of institutions and, as a result, must maintain the same level of regulation of working relationships as well as professional guidelines in their work. The draft law could affect the level of social protection of insured persons in private institutions with concessions, as the lower payment of employees in such institutions could also mean more dissatisfied employees and consequently lower the level of services. However, the additional argument that we are putting forward in New Slovenia is that in these cases it is public money and that the same high standards should apply to all operators. The proposal is strongly opposed by the professional and general public, and the applicant has also decided not to insist on it. Members of New Slovenia will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I will say that business operators in the field of social and health care by adopting concessions become part of a public network. We have such arrangements in the Slovenian system and thank God that we have such arrangements for concessions to become or to be complemented by a public network. They fall under the state's regulation, and I think that there is almost no human being in this Chamber who would object to the introduction of regulation in those cases where services are intended for wider consumption or are not finally financed by public funds. In this context, I also welcome the decision of the proposer, who has listened to all the comments and warnings of both the policy and the professional public, and has withdrawn as far as possible by the Rules of Procedure, to withdraw the law at this stage. This novelty constitutes an intervention in system regulation and causes an unacceptable anomaly in the system itself, at least according to our assessment, because it would constitute an inequality before the law and could, as we have heard today, also constitute unfair competition in the field of social protection services or care. I may also say that I believe that we can all agree together today that the situation in the field of social protection, and if I touch on it, because it has already been mentioned today, the protection of the elderly is not regulated at an enviable level. Far from it. Nor is it comparable to the standards or arrangements in other European countries, so I really hope that, at the end of this year, we will see the end of this year, as well as the coalition agreement, to deal with the long-term supply law, which will answer a number of questions that can also be addressed by the content of the law that we are dealing with today. As we say, however, we must not go in the direction proposed by the contents of the new law that is before us today. Maybe just for the end for a little while. In the content of the law, the proposer refers to the unnecessary limitation of the free economic initiative, and I say this and I want to conclude that the compulsory payment of wages and the fulfilment of the rights of workers in the labour relationship cannot in any way constitute a restriction or restriction on the free economic initiative. The payment of taxes, contributions and wages means respect for the social and legal state, and not least when we talk about the public sector, including in the field of concessional activities, I believe that the system we have today is a system that means respect for the social and legal state and, last but not least, allows equal accessibility to all those in need of public sector services, whether in the field of public or private sector, which has a public concession granted by the State. As it is said, we do not support the content of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, so we will support the conclusion that the law is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Irena Tavčar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you. The proposal for a bill amending the Social Protection Act proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and decided unanimously by the committee responsible that it is not suitable for further consideration, we do not support the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The proposal sets out the deletion of the obligation of the public authorities to obtain concessions in order to continue to regulate working relationships in accordance with collective agreements, laws and other acts applicable to employees in public institutions in the field of social protection. By deleting this obligation of public institutions in the field of social protection, the provision of public social protection services in institutions with concessions under minimum standards and standards would be eliminated. The quality of the public service would thus be reduced by increasing profits and reducing the quality of service delivery. They could also provide workers and workers with smaller rights than in other public institutions. Concessionaires already have the opportunity to provide part of the service without a concession, i.e. by purely market principles. The proposed solution is partial and would have an extremely negative impact on the welfare of the elderly. In this regard, a new system regime is needed to help improve the effectiveness of the social welfare system. Nor has the bill been harmonised in the context of social dialogue. On the proposal of the law, a number of comments were made in the Health Care Workers' Union and the Health and Social Welfare Union of Slovenia. A negative opinion was also given by the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this, we will vote in favour of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats, presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you. Hello again! The Proposal for a Law amending the Social Protection Act proposes deleting a provision requiring the concessionaire to apply the rules and collective agreements applicable to employees in public institutions in the field of social protection. This means, of course, that we would delete the obligation that employees in concessionaires receive the same amount of payment as employees in the public sector. Social Democrats do not agree with the proposed amendment to the law. We believe that the deletion of this provision could lead to significant differences in the performance of the public service and, in this context, to inadequate employment and the payment of employees who perform the same or comparable work within the public service. Concessionaires could not provide services in accordance with applicable standards and standards for the provision of social security services if this law is adopted. Under the Social Protection Act, social protection activity is defined as a non-profit activity. The services provided by law as a public service may be carried out within the public service network by both public social security institutions and other legal and natural persons who obtain a concession on a public invitation to tender for the provision of social security services. Since concessionaires may also carry out other activities which are not subject to an award or concessionary may use other collective agreements as a result of its basic activity, the operation of the concessionaire in the field of social protection for which he has accepted the concession must be separate from the rest of the concessionaire's business. In collective agreements to be taken into account by the concessionaire in the implementation of the concession granted and applicable to the public sector, jobs are occupied but not covered or comparable in other collective agreements and are essential for the provision of social security services. In the event that concessionaires do not take into account such specified staffing conditions, there would be significant differences in the scope and quality of services as well as in the level of their funding. It should be pointed out that the obligation of equal pay for public institutions and concessionaires is also laid down by the statutory law on education and education. Social Democrats propose that the same payment obligation should also be laid down in the emerging new Health Action Act, which means that employees of health concessionaires should also receive the same salaries and other income from work as doctors, nurses, laboratories and other public servants employed in public health institutions. I therefore stress once again that we do not agree with the proposal for a law, and we believe, as the Home Committee has concluded, that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that's to say the bill on amendments to the law on railway safety after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the motion for a bill to Mr Daniel Krivac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to my colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State. The National Assembly is 15. Seven. 2011 adopted the amendment to the Railway Safety Act, which provides in Article 71, paragraph 4, that towed vehicles which travel on routes which are not subject to conditions of interoperability shall be in the front of the vehicle in the direction of driving and the stroboscope lights on. However, when driving on routes subject to conditions for interoperability, these lamps shall be excluded. I must point out that there have already been a number of concerns at the stage of the adoption of this amendment, particularly since the use of stroboscope lights on towing vehicles has not been prescribed in any member of the European Union or is not used by any European carrier. The installation of stroboscopic lights would also entail a large additional cost for Slovenian railways. However, the mandatory use of these lamps may only be prescribed for carriers on non-interoperable, i.e. side lines or regional routes. The equipment of railway vehicles defined by international rules is sufficient for all safety standards and the introduction of a specific light for domestic vehicles is a step back from technical uniformity in rail transport, causing additional costs and confusion that can threaten even safety in rail transport. For these reasons, it is proposed that the draft law delete all provisions governing the equipment of towing vehicles with stroboscope lamps. The Legislative and Legal Service has no comments on the proposal for a law. The proposal also supports the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. On the basis of all additional information received, the proposal for a law also supports the Government. As it is said, the installation of stroboscope lights would be a unique one in the European Union, and it is therefore necessary to remove this solution before the two-year transitional period, which determines the application of this law, expires. On the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, the amendment of the Railway Safety Act was unanimously supported, and I therefore expect support from the draft law in today's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 11th meeting, on 10 October, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Rail Safety, submitted by Mr Daniel Krivec to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. At its 62nd meeting, on 10 September 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. No amendments were tabled within the time limit for the draft law. In the supplementary explanation, the applicant, Mr Krivec, pointed out that the amendment of the Railway Safety Act stipulates that towing vehicles which drive on routes which are not subject to interoperability conditions shall be in the front of the vehicle in the direction of driving and running the stroboscope light. He stressed that several concerns regarding this addition had already been raised at the stage of the adoption of the said novelty, particularly since the use of stroboscope lights on towing vehicles was not prescribed in any EU Member State or used by any European carrier. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Bojan Babič, pointed out that the last amendment to the Railway Safety Act in Article 54 provides for the introduction of stroboscope lights no later than two years after obtaining a positive opinion from the European Railway Agency ERA. The Ministry authorised the Public Railway Agency, which has not yet received a formal opinion, to obtain an opinion from the ERA. However, it has obtained preliminary information that the provision on the construction of stroboscope lamps does not comply with the current and anticipated amendments to the technical specifications for interoperability for rolling stock in rail. As a result, a positive opinion on the installation of stroboscope lights by the ERA is not expected. He stressed that, on the basis of the information provided, the Government did not oppose the proposal and consequently replace the first opinion of 9 September this year. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhartinger, stressed that the draft law had been examined and had no comments on the proposed text. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission had supported the proposal of the law while expressing satisfaction that the Government had taken a positive position in its second opinion. In the debate, all the panellists, members and members of the committee expressed their support for the bill. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Railway Safety should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Bojan Babič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act, submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Daniel Krivec, addresses a sensitive area of safety. The obligation to build stroboscope lights, which was established by the amendment of the law in 2011, was established in order to improve safety at railway crossings. It would be applied on regional routes where we have the most crossings marked only by the traffic sign of the Andrej Cross and the risk of serious accidents due to the collision of a train with motor vehicles is highest. The determination was established despite the opposition of the railway safety authorities. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space sought answers whether they knew such a solution in other countries and how their experts viewed it. The Ministry authorised the Public Agency for Rail Transport to raise the issue of the appropriateness of the action and their possible effects on rail safety, as well as on the safety of road users in crossing roads. In this regard, the public railway agency also sent an official request to the European Railway Agency for an opinion of 9. 10. also received. The opinion of the European Railway Agency shows that the installation of additional stroboscopic lights on rolling stock in the technical specifications for interoperability of locomotives and passenger suits does not define this nor is this addressed in the amendments. In particular, the ERA emphasises that such a provision must by no means be a condition for a driving licence. At present, this would only be allowed on non-interoperable routes, but new legislation will require all routes to ensure interoperability standards. Nor should the provision be a condition for the access of carriers to public rail infrastructure. On the basis of all these opinions, the Government has adopted a decision not to oppose the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen Members! With regard to the amendments to the Railway Safety Act, which we are considering today, it should be pointed out that in reality it is only a matter of deleting certain articles or paragraphs of the law, which in fact represent a significant savings in the costs of Slovenian railways. The question of the provision of mandatory use of stroboscope lights on towing vehicles introduced into the Railway Safety Act in 2011 is not only a question of a unique legal regime that has no other member of the European Union, but also the sense of almost a million investments in the purchase and maintenance of these lights. As the applicant also points out in the material, flashing lights on tow vehicles are also controversial because, in practice, it is not clear what their impact is on railway personnel working along the track, on passengers on stations, as well as on other road users, for example, on drivers of road vehicles when driving at night on roads near the railway. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which initially opposed this novel in writing, has changed its opinion at one of the later meetings and supported the proposed amendments to the Railway Safety Act, even though they come from the opposition. Of course, the proposed amendments to the law will also receive the support of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. This is the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In July 2011, we adopted the amendment to the Railway Safety Act, which provides, inter alia, that towed vehicles travelling on routes which are not subject to the conditions for ensuring interoperability must be in the front of the vehicle in the direction of driving on and off the stroboscope light. However, when driving on routes subject to conditions for interoperability, these lamps shall be excluded. There have already been several concerns about this addition at the stage of the adoption of this novelty, particularly since the use of stroboscope lights on towing vehicles is not prescribed in any member of the European Union or is not used by any European carrier. The installation of stroboscopic lights would also entail a large additional cost for Slovenian railways. The introduction of stroboscopic lights brings financial consequences to Slovenian railways amounting to around EUR 800 000, without including the costs of regular investment maintenance, while such a solution does not have a professional basis to ensure greater safety in rail transport. We all know what such a cost means for Slovenian railways. Of course, we expect that Slovenian railways will spend money to increase rail safety mainly in securing unsecured crossings across the road and thus contribute to reducing the number of deaths caused by accidents at unprotected crossings. At the same time, in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that it is not only the costs that carriers would have incurred if towed vehicles were to be equipped with stroboscope lights, but that the implementation of these provisions would result in an unequal situation for carriers, depending on whether they drive along routes subject to interoperability conditions or not. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Rail Transport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal because we believe that the decision to install stroboscopic lights on towing vehicles that drive along regional or side rails was actually stupid. So much more so that these same tractors should be switched off on interoperable or main railway lines of the stroboscope light. The installation of stroboscopic lights in the European space would also mean a unique one, as the European Union does not prescribe them anywhere. These flashing lights would violate at least two of the principles that the European Union is following in the trans-European rail system in Slovenia. These are the comparability and compatibility of individual rail subsystems. It is also right to point out the role of the Government in the consideration of this novel, which has completely changed its position on the novel within a month. At first, she opposed the novel, thus advocating the installation of stroboscope lights, and after obtaining information that the relevant authorities at EU level do not support the installation of these lights, she changed her mind. We welcome this decision, which will save the country almost a million euros. Because after a grave assessment, it would cost so much to put these lights on towed railway vehicles. We will support the new law in New Slovenia and at the same time we believe that with a little more common sense and due diligence towards the resources of our own country, we could save a million more. Apparently, some state investments have also spent hundreds of millions, making it easier for them to spend the time ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia shall have the floor of Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, when adopting the Complementation of the Railway Safety Act in May 2013, wanted to table amendments concerning the installation of stroboscope lights on towing vehicles, but unfortunately this was not possible. We therefore pointed out in the discussion that the vehicle cannot be equipped at the same time with stroboscope lamps for driving on routes which are not interoperable and then with the usual lights for driving on interoperable routes outside Slovenia. The equipment of railway vehicles is precisely defined by international rules that satisfy the required safety standards also by the countries of the European Union. On 15 July 2011, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Supplements to the Law on Railway Safety, which provides that all towed vehicles must be equipped with locomotives, on local lines of built-in ice flashes within two years of its entry into force. In particular, paragraph 71 of the fourth paragraph provides that towing vehicles which drive on routes which are not subject to interoperability conditions shall be in the front of the vehicle in the direction of driving and in the direction of running a stroboscope light. Strostroscopic lights shall be excluded when driving on routes subject to conditions to ensure interoperability. The current legislation of the European Union does not provide for this, so the lights, as I have already said, must be excluded, and the law adopted aims to reduce the number of accidents on the railways and to increase the safety of road users. Let me draw attention to the sad statistics that more than 27% of railway accidents have occurred at actively secured level crossings where prisoners or signal lights have sound signals. So I'm wondering if better lit locomotives would turn people away from breaking the law and crossing the tracks by released prisons. Statistics say unfortunately not. I therefore welcome the opposition's proposal to combine the political wisdom of the opposition and the coalition when adopting the bill. Positive Slovenia will vote for it because it will save a lot of money that we will be able to use more effectively elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pavlich. Mr Daniel Krivec, on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you again, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that there is such a uniform position on this law, which is actually an anachronism in this area and also in the transport field, and I am pleased that this also eliminates the danger that could have arisen if this law entered into force after a two-year transitional period. At the time of adoption, the entire professional public said that this law does not bring greater security, bringing more confusion into this system. At that time, the position of our parliamentary group, and also in the overwhelming part of the Members, was that this law should be rejected and voted by a minimum majority at that time by this transitional period of two years, which is due to expire. It is therefore important that this law, which would constitute an increasing risk to transport, and also significantly increased costs in the field of railways, be eliminated by this new novelty. I am pleased that the government has also changed its position and that there is uniform support in this round, on the basis of the facts it has obtained during this period, so thank all colleagues and colleagues for their support. It is clear that we will also support this bill in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Samo Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! It would be right for the opposition and the coalition to join together in any more important project or law than this law, which we are currently considering. In the Group of Social Democrats we support the proposed amendment to the Railway Safety Act. When one of the amendments to the law was adopted in July 2011, the law provided that tow vehicles which were not subject to conditions for interoperability should be fitted with stroboscope lights, which must be excluded when driving on routes subject to conditions to ensure interoperability. According to the calculations, the installation of stroboscope lights would burden Slovenian railways for around EUR 800,000. We must also include the cost of maintaining equipment every year. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stated that it did not oppose the amendment of the law, which was also adopted on the basis of information from the European Railway Agency, which would not give a positive opinion on the article on the installation of stroboscopic lights. In view of the debate on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposed law. In addition, in order to ensure that representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space do not introduce stroboscopic lights will not reduce safety in rail transport, especially in the level crossings of the railway and the road, in particular at crossings equipped only with the Andreje Cross. The best solution for ensuring security is the introduction of out-of-military crossings, which the Government is aware of, and also in the 2014 and 2015 budgets, it maintains a project to ensure the safety and elimination of dangerous crossings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. And Mrs Kristina Valenčič on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The most recent amendment to the Railway Safety Act was adopted by the National Assembly in May this year. At that time, a discussion on the meaning and effectiveness of the introduction of stroboscope lights, as provided for by the law in force at the time, opened when the proposal was being considered on the home labour body. All the parliamentary groups agreed that the introduction of special stroboscope lights only for domestic towing vehicles which drive along routes which are not subject to conditions for interoperability is not relevant. For the whole railway system, the European Union has put in place uniform rules and standards in the field of railway safety with a view to ensuring the achievement of common safety objectives. Given the openness of the European space, the introduction of stroboscope lights in Slovenia makes sense when they are standardised for all countries of the European Union. At present, no European transport carrier uses stroboscopic lights both inside and outside the European Union. As stated earlier in May this year, we have adopted a temporary solution which was the only possible solution in relation to compliance with business regulations, namely, the solution envisaged that the introduction of stroboscope lights would take place no later than two years after obtaining a positive opinion from the European Railway Agency on the compliance and adequacy of this requirement. However, the novelty that we are going to decide on today proposes a definitive solution, namely the deletion of all provisions relating to the introduction of stroboscope lights. We have listened to the last opinion of the Government, which does not oppose the proposal of the law, as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as well as the Public Agency for Rail Transport, find that the European Railway Agency will not give a positive opinion on the installation of stroboscopic lights. Although we understand the good intentions of the Slovenian innovator who wants to reduce the number of tragedies on the railway tracks by introducing stroboscopic lights and helps to increase the level of safety, it is not possible to overlook that this solution does not have a professional basis, it is not agreed by both the security authority and the carriers, the railway infrastructure manager and the competent inspection. In today's situation, however, the financial consequences of such an introduction cannot be ignored, which would also mean an additional cost of EUR 800,000 for Slovenian railways. Thus, the story is very similar to, for example, traffic stickers, which caused additional costs to drivers and were later abolished. Let me therefore reiterate that Slovenia or the Slovenian Railways of Stroboscope Lights, despite the legal obligation in practice, have not yet set up, which means that the deletion of these provisions will not reduce the existing level of safety in rail transport, so we will support Members and Members of the National List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valenčich. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly cannot be tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, it's an evocative proposal for a law amending a real law after a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members, first signed by Richard Branisl. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant. Here you go, Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Land debt is created on the basis of a unilateral legal transaction in the form of a notary record by entering into the land book and by issuing a land letter. It can only be established by the owner of the property as well as by a mortgage creditor, e.g. a bank that converts, in agreement with the owner of the encumbered property, its mortgage into one or more land debts. Land debt is disproportionate, which means that it is independent of any claim or legal business. It's moving along with the land letter. Since the introduction of this Institute, and most intensively since 2011, the public has been informed not so much about the alleged utility benefits of this Institute, but about the increasing abuse or use that does not serve its purpose, which has led to the introduction of the Institute into the Slovenian legal system at all. A surprising number of cases can be observed in the media where individuals, including some influential economic operators, in order to prevent or make it difficult for a State or other creditors to enforce their properties, the latter have been burdened with allegedly fictitious land debts with values that have also more than several times exceeded the value of the fixed property and with extremely long maturitys of the land debt obligation. On this basis, it can reasonably be concluded that there are so-called fraudulistic frauds, fraudulent land debts. They are characterised by the fact that the owner of the property, which is threatened with enforcement for the settlement of his debts or even the confiscation of property, by the establishment of the land debt, mobilises his economic value in a land letter transferred by presentation to the related person. The holder of the land letter is not the real owner or beneficiary of the land letter, but is only a strawed man, a fiduciary who, in his own name, exercises rights from land debt in the account of the owner of the encumbered property. The purpose of such a manoeuvre is to land at least the proceeds from the sale of the property in the hands of the owner or founder of the land debt and not with the State or with other creditors. In the Slovenian legal space, the Institute of Land Debt in fair business practice did not apply at all. Since the establishment of this Institute in 2003, there were an average of 50, 60 registered land debts in the Land Book at the annual level in 2011. According to data from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, up to the declining increase in registered land debts in 2013 there is a marked increase in enrolments, namely the first half of 2012 326, only in half years, in 2012 as much as 730 and in 2013 up to about 3 000. In view of the fact that the Association of Banks of Slovenia has provided information that its members, i.e. banks, are not serving land debt to cover their claims or that they are primarily using the maximum mortgage for this purpose and that the share of the land debt in the total quota is only good, we find that this institution does not serve its purpose but serves something else. Some experts estimate that there are at least three quarters of fictitious land debts in the Republic of Slovenia. It follows from the above that it is imperative that this moment be the only good decision that this institution, which has never come to life and which has turned into an ordinary fraud and abuse of rights, should simply be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. The proposal addressed the home working body of the Committee on Justice. In order to present the report, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Committee on Justice, which, at its 14th session on 8 October 2013, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law of Law. He was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the Commission of the Council of State and others which proposed their views. In his explanation, Member Richard Braniselj said that it was about lifting the abuse-absorbing solution, which has already been presented in the introductory part. The representative of the Government said that when the number of land debts established after 2011 was increasing, the Government had been alerted by the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor to the suspicions of the abuse of this institution or the suspicions of its establishment only in order to make it difficult to pay the creditors' claims or to prevent the confiscation of illegally acquired property. As a result, there is strong doubt that the increased use shows that this institute would fulfil its purpose. On the contrary, it shows that it is in fact in the majority of cases of abuse and is therefore supported by the proposed law and the abolition of this institution. Members then supported the proposed law in the debate, particularly in order to prevent abuses in the future, and expressed concern that the proposed law does not address the problems of existing land debts. However, representatives of the Government claimed that changes in the legislation were already being prepared in this direction in particular in the area of enforcement and insurance and the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them and invited the National Assembly to adopt them. However, it has adopted additional decisions, namely the proposal to the Government to put in place legal solutions within two months to prevent the abuse of the Institute even in cases where it has already been established, i.e. those not covered by this law. The Committee on Justice proposes to the Government that, within one month, they should submit a new law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. I also give the floor to the State Secretary from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ms Tina Brecelj, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nicely greeted! The proposed solutions, or amendments to the Real Law Code, put into the National Assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Richard Branislje, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports. As already mentioned in the introduction, the land debt for the purpose which was the reason for its establishment did not, in fact, come to life in the Slovenian space. It has also been said that the Ministry of Justice by the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor has also been specifically alerted to the suspected abuses of this institution. I will not repeat in my presentation because they have also been told how the dynamics of the use of land debt have increased over the years. But I'd like to say the following. There is still no evidence of the abuse of the Earth Debt Institute or of the judicial abuse found in our data. However, there are several indications that the Land Debt Institute has been used primarily in the recent period in contravention of its business purpose. It should also be said that the abuse of land debt is not the only abuse of a real-right-wing institute. It is also detectable of fictitious property copies, the establishment of fictitious mortgages, and the applicable legal order allows creditors to recover such abuses through the filing of appropriate null and void actions. Well, and right here, when it comes to land debt, it makes a difference. In the case of land debt, when discussing judicial proceedings, evidence of damage to creditors or the fictitivity of the establishment is made difficult because of the fundamental characteristics of this institution. This is the anonymity of the holder of the land letter, which requires easier portability and non-accessor of land debt. It is precisely because of these leading attributes of the Institute that the judicial proceedings that could be initiated are, however, very difficult and only the proof is extremely difficult. I would like to say that the Ministry of Justice has examined the possibility of amending the substantive provisions of the Real Law Code in order to maintain the Institute, in particular in order to make it more transparent. However, given the fact that such changes would result in the loss of one of the central characteristics of this right, this is the portability of land debt, and the Institute would be very close to the Institute of Maximum Mortgage, which the banking sector is already heavily in use, no such change or adjustment is necessary. Therefore, because of everything that has already been said in the presentations before me, the Government fully supports the proposal. With regard to already established land debts, the working group at the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for preparing the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, is preparing solutions to prevent the existing anonymity of the holder of the land letter and thereby to remove or extend the payment of the remaining creditors. The solutions brought by the new Enforcement and Insurance Act on existing land debts go towards faster disclosure of the holder of the land letter and improvement of the position of the remaining creditors in the enforcement procedure regarding their ability to enforce the fictitiousness of the land debt and consequently the invalidity of the declared land debt. The proposal, as presented, is supported by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, too, Secretary of State Mrs. Brecelj! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the DeSUS Group, we unanimously support the proposal to end land debt. In this decision to unquestionably support the proposed amendment of the Real Law, we have been convinced by all the facts and circumstances that have recently shown that with this institution, i.e. with the debt of land, something is seriously wrong. Let me say that we do not doubt that in 2002, when we introduced this institution into our legislation, the legislator's intention was well-intentioned. But apparently the Slovenian Institute of Land Debt has some shortcomings and its founders have not overplayed all possible combinations in order to make its use fair or to prevent its abuse. Let us also recognize that those who have the purpose of dishonesty are, unfortunately, always and everywhere, a step ahead of the hand of justice. In recent times, land debt has become very popular among chronic debtors and such persons who have been involved in procedures for which the State or law enforcement authorities have initiated certain procedures to determine compensation or criminal liability. The fact is that, at first, in 2010, land debt as an instrument of debt insurance was used to a negligible extent. The average number of entries at annual level in 2003-2010 ranged from 60 to 90 cases. However, in 2011 these entries were already 326, and in 2012 the number even doubled. A thousand 452 land debt cases have already been registered in real estate by this year until 1 October. In view of the fact that only 1 to 2 % of the use of these entries on the bank side is reported, it is clear. Our legal system will certainly survive without the Earth Debt Institute. And his termination will cross many unfair plans. Surely, however, by abolishing this institution’s continued wickedness, we will contribute to a greater level of honesty and justice in our country. Since the proposal does not solve the problem of existing land debts, i.e. land debts that have already been established, we do not stop because retroactive intervention is unlikely to sustain constitutionally, in the DeSUS Group of Members it is imperative that the Government prepare such legislative solutions as soon as possible, on the basis of which it will be possible to quickly and effectively examine these existing ratios of land-book debt in terms of alleged fictitivity and abuse, and establish appropriate measures to ensure that the founders bear the consequences, and that the true and fair creditors can exercise their rights. We are pleased to note that the Ministry of Justice has already taken a step towards solving this problem, and therefore we believe that the decision adopted on the home labour body will certainly soon be realized. That is also what the secretary-general said today. As has already been said, in the DeSUS Group we will support changes to the Real Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Members of the New Slovenia Group and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u142	Say good-bye again! In Novi Slovenija we support the Proposal for Amendments and Supplement to the Real Law Code, which abolishes the Institute of Land Debt. Land debt was introduced into our real law in 2002 by the application of a real law code in accordance with the pattern of German law. In our legal order, he never really came to life. This is proved by the data of the Association of Banks of Slovenia. The real-estate insurance institutions, which are actually committed to land debt, were only used in 1% to 2% in the first 10 years following its entry into force. All the rest of the insurance is mortgaged. However, a significant increase in land debt was observed after 2011, especially in the first half of this year, when almost as much land debt was established as in the previous eight years. However, the State authorities, the tax administration, the police and the prosecution have begun to draw attention to the suspected abuse of this institution in order to make it difficult to pay the claims of creditors and the State and to make it difficult to implement the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Origins. We have read in the newspapers that land debts on their property have created prominent individuals from the economy and politics, which are otherwise in criminal proceedings and is a very clear purpose pursued by this. The envisaged legal protection for such abuses has in practice proved to be ineffective. Although it is theoretically possible to provide legal protection against the holder of the land letter by means of a null or void action. However, the procedure is virtually impossible to carry out as the holder of the land letter is anonymous and the defendant cannot be determined in such a procedure. The abolition of this Institute is, in the opinion of Members of New Slovenia, an appropriate measure to prevent its further abuse. However, the problem remains existing land debts. In New Slovenia, we expect that the Government will shortly prepare appropriate legislative bases to enable creditors, in particular the tax authority, to effectively recover debts from debtors who have already secured their assets in this way. However, with regard to existing land debts, we must also highlight the area of accountability of notaries. The interiors are people of public trust. The notary record for the establishment of land debt was prescribed as a buffer to prevent the abuse of this institution to prevent creditors, in particular in cases where the creditor is a State due to unpaid taxes and contributions. Unfortunately, we find that notaries mostly act as entrepreneurs who do the job and pay well for it without having to say illegal work or abandon anything. Control over the work and responsibility of notaries will need to be tightened. As already mentioned above, Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u144	Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State, a lovely greeting! In Positive Slovenia we are convinced that the Institute of Land Book Debt, which was introduced in 2003, was introduced into our legal system with the best intentions, that is to simplify land-booking or real estate transactions. Unfortunately, after a few years of using this institute, as the speakers have already said before us, we note in particular the abuses of this institution and the relatively small use of this institution in the banking sector. Banks, as shown by data also mentioned by colleagues from the Banking Association and other statistics, still use mortgages in the largest part to secure real estate transactions, while land-book debt is used only in one to two percent of cases. In spite of this, in Positive Slovenia we do not favour some populist and fast way of solving problems by eliminating individuals in Europe and the world of established institutions. Even in the case of the land-book debt problem in Positive Slovenia, we wanted to work first to find a solution so that this debt could no longer be misused and to incorporate security guards into legislation in terms of enrollment in the land book and other ways that would prevent abuse. Unfortunately, the latest data from the Ministry also shows that such a procedure could take too long and would be difficult to correct. The Institute, which I mentioned earlier that it had not been used in practice and has been used in 60 to 90 cases in 10 years, has recently started to be used in a very large number of cases. Since 2011, over 2 000 land debts have already been registered, and from August this year to October 429. Changes to this institute and changes to the Real Law Code, which would make such abuses impossible, would go in the direction that I listed earlier, and would bring the maximum mortgage very close, which means, on the other hand, that we would have two very similar institutes in Slovenia, which also makes no sense. The problem with land-book debt is that we have a one-sided legal business where the owner of the property simply goes to the notary and set up a land debt for his property. It shall be established in the form of a notary record and shall not be obliged to disclose to the notary any information on why it wishes to establish it, nor shall it be questioned. Hence, the interior of this stage has no opportunity to verify what the desire and purpose of someone to set up a land debt is, of course, not to assume in advance that its purpose is to play creditors or to protect property from possible confiscation. This would only be possible in some extreme cases if the imbalance between land-book debt and the amount of real estate were indeed in the sky absorbing. The second problem is that when this document is transferred to the new holder, which of course does not happen to the notary, the new holder of this letter is anonymous. And if there has been a transfer solely for the purpose of abuse, the challenge to such transfer and such act by the creditor of that debtor is very, very difficult and it is a matter of very long-term procedures. In the civil field, as has already been said, it is necessary to do so by means of a deleted action, and in the criminal law field, complex and long-term prosecution procedures are necessary, for which some prosecutors justify or interpret in the media, in order to be able to continue for up to fifteen years. All of these are reasons for the fact that, after some political reflection, also in Positive Slovenia, it has come to the realization that it is a reasonable abuse to infect and, for the time being, to abolish the land-book debt. Let me say here that such a decision is also the responsibility of our justice, which responds too slowly to certain problems. Of course, on the Justice Committee, we have called on the Ministry of Justice to fulfil its promise as soon as possible to resolve existing land debts by amending the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, where sanctions will be imposed on those who have already served this institution and who want to abuse it. The Ministry has promised that this law will be in the procedure no later than [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]] We will support the law in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kociper. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u146	Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary of State! Although the Institute of Land Debt was introduced into Slovenia's legal order by amending the Real Law Code in 2002, and by German example, we were not aware of this institution until 2011, so to speak. The introduction of this institute was not followed by appropriate legal practice. The Legislative and Legal Service therefore notes in its opinion that the example of the German legal regime would also provide an example of legislative solutions and judicial practice in preventing the illegal use of land debt. Unfortunately, in recent times we have experienced inadmissible abuses by this real-law institution, especially in the last three months, land debt has become just a means that makes it difficult for creditors to pay their claims. He became a tool for seemingly fallen tycoons and managers. Land debts were not established and carried out for a permissible business purpose. If we remember only the names that were published in our media, who used this institute, and we remember only Boška Šrota, Bineta Kordez, Zdenka Pavčka, Marka Jaklič, Dragan Tošić, we see that through these persons and names we come to interesting coincidences, because it seems to be a far-out institute that is the invention of the managers of the Factor Bank or Forum 21. These individuals did not want to resist writing land letters and thus abuse them. This has damaged many creditors, including the Republic of Slovenia, or made it difficult to pay the claims of creditors and states and thus prevented the confiscation of illegally acquired assets. In view of all of this, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members will also support the draft law at today's meeting of the National Assembly. In the Group of Members, we also believe that the already established land debts, which go into millions, need to be determined whether these amounts of debt or property have been subject to tax. We will also follow closely in the Slovenian Democratic Party the conclusions that we have also supported on the Committee, namely that within two months the Government introduces legal solutions to prevent the abuse of the Land Debt Institute in those cases where it has already been established, and that the Government introduces a new law on the confiscation of assets of illegal origin within a period of one month. If this had not happened, then we would have done nothing, then all those who serve this institution would be safe and this episode would only be a propaganda maneuver. As we say, we support this and let the Government fulfil its part of the task as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr Mirko Brulc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u148	Your Honor! Since 2002, when the Real Law Code was adopted, there has never been as much written about the new legal institution, the land debt, as it has been written about in the last year. I'm afraid it's negative. Land debt has not been used in practice since the implementation of the law. Maybe just in a few ten cases a year. In the last two years, however, the use of this institute has been on the rise. It's about the mass use of land debt. Above all, it is an abuse of this – the information given by the applicant in the bill is 730 cases in 2012 and this year we are already above the number of thousands of 400. This institution shall be used or used primarily to protect the property of those individuals against whom civil or criminal proceedings have been initiated. However, some individuals use this institute primarily for preventive reasons. They may have estimated that past actions could also result in a procedure against them that could rob them of their property. Neither the proposer nor the legislator in 2001 nor 2002, when this legal institution was placed in our legal order, certainly did they imagine that land debt would allow creditors to be played and to avoid the taking away of illegally acquired property benefits. In thought, and perhaps too simplistic, but still. Land debt is a unilateral legal transaction and must be drawn up in the form of a notary record. The notary record shall, however, contain the name of the founder, the land code, the encumbered property and the height and the conditions of maturity of the amount. That's what the Real Law code says. Notary records of legal transactions establishing a mortgage of land debt on immovable property consists of a notary which has the seat of a notary office in the area of the district court where the property lies. Where the subject of a mortgage or land debt is more than a property, the notary with the office seat in the area of the district court where the principal property is located shall be the competent notary. That's what the Notariat Act states. I believe that, in the light of the above, a significant increase in the use of this legal institution could be brought to the attention of someone. It follows that operators and users of laws should point out this in a timely manner to the relevant institutions and jointly review whether existing legislation can prevent further use or abuse of land debt. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law abolishing land debt. However, we are also aware that by implementing the law under consideration, we will not solve those thousands of 400 already registered land debts. However, we expect the Ministry or the Government to bring a bill to the National Assembly as soon as possible, which will also address already established land debts and sanction them appropriately or at least prevent the abuse of land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Brultz. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. To continue where I ended up before. If we go to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of 202, when the Law of Law was actually in preparation and accepted, we can find that the institute, which was newly established, is a land debt, is hardly a word of explanation why this institution is being introduced. I would not have guessed that this institute was intentionally listed for the purpose of allowing abuse, but I claim that this institution was too quickly and too naively placed in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. If we go now to predict what is the course of legal protection or a challenge to the business of a creditor who feels cheated because he cannot pay his claim, which can be a natural person, a company or tax administration, how to get this challenge and the final cancellation of this land debt, a land letter, this is virtually impossible. Even up to 10 years of judicial channels would need to come to an end if it were successful at all. Not to mention that the creditor should, in fact, finance a complex enforcement procedure, a complete valuation, and when he finds out after five years who holds the land letter, he should also challenge the legal business, if this matter is not already outdated, to finance a judicial fee of some tens of thousands and then in uncertain court proceedings he will also do so. It is practically an impossible mission, and therefore it is imperative that this matter be prevented in the first place. On the other hand, the Secretary of State has already mentioned that at the Ministry of Justice they are actively preparing legislation that will facilitate enforcement and make it easier to actually challenge legal matters. Why is it, in fact, symbolically and urgently necessary for the Earth Debt Institute to be thrown out of our legal order? We today, I hope, will adopt a law on the tax procedure where we introduce taxation of property of unknown origin. Also with this title, it is likely that there will be a whole range of taxpayers in this country who have come to the property in a controversial way and, in fact, the State, Durs, through tax enforcement, will want to get these funds back into the budget. And if we make it possible in such cases to hide property, to protect it by means of a tax land letter, then we have done nothing. Not to mention the problems of the seizure of illegally acquired property in criminal law, the deprivation of unlawful property benefits and, of course, compensation liability. Indemnity of the administrations and supervisory boards of economic companies – and of particular importance and, as is currently the case, the liability of the administrations and supervisory boards of banks, state banks. At a press conference with the Police Director, the Minister of the Interior said that a number of criminal complaints for economic crime had been filed. All these criminal charges are likely to lead to processes, criminal proceedings and some compensation and criminal liability in a certain part, where the country will again be the one where the damage caused to the state budget will necessarily have to be recovered. I strongly hope that this law will be voted on today. In the future, however, there is a whole range of other legal institutions, legal transactions that can be controversial but not as controversial as land debt. I would only mention the marking of the order for the acquisition of property rights, which is currently in Article 68 of the Land Book Act. It is also an institute that will have to be overturned, and it is also an institution that allows abuse. That is why I also expect the Ministry of Justice to blow this up and, if necessary, propose appropriate legislation. The Civil Code will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. Ms Jasmina Opec also, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, all of you! The right should be basically concerned with justice and, therefore, should protect the weaker against the stronger, but it is increasingly the other way around. Law is increasingly becoming a legal tool for the realization of its own interests, regardless of price and whatever other consequences. Unfortunately, this is exactly the same with the Earth Debt Institute in our country. It must have been set up by the Land Debt Institute for other purposes, not for the protection of illegally acquired property and for the avoidance of the time limits of justice. It has certainly not been established that some managers who have been investigated for abuses or have been sued against them, their assets, houses, dwellings, and timely book their land debts, thereby protecting their assets not only against creditors but also against law enforcement authorities. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal to change this institution so that it will no longer be able to abuse it. However, in the proposed regulation, we draw attention to an important open issue. By abolishing the Earth Debt Institute, we will not solve the essentials of what we should do in our country – to eliminate the existing abuses of land debt and to correct the injustices of all the corrupt creditors and workers. Given the problem of the abuse of this institution, it would be expected that the Ministry would only act faster and put into action a proposal that would deal more comprehensively and in accordance with the Constitution, but nothing has happened for a long time. More. Despite calls from state prosecutors at the beginning of this year for the Ministry to draw up appropriate solutions in the area of the existing abuses of this institution, nothing has moved. Land debt abuse has continued, and exploitation at the expense of creditors and workers has become a daily practice. In particular, when it comes to the enforcement of legal provisions, the ministries should prepare appropriate solutions in a hypnotic manner, rather than all of us asking ourselves whether they do not know, cannot, will not or must not do anything. I really hope that this time the coalition's commitment is also in the form of decisions adopted by the parent committee, that the ministry will shortly prepare solutions for the already existing land debt abuses, bear fruit and will not be left with empty promises. It has already been very large, so Members of the Slovenian People's Party, despite the open question that remains, and despite the fact that this is not a comprehensive solution, we will not oppose the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Opec. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, no amendments can be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a bill on amendments to the Notariat Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mrs Tina Brecelj, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia must remove as soon as possible the requirement of reciprocity in access to the profession of notary for nationals of the Member States of the European Union, the EEC and the Swiss Confederation, as it constitutes an applicable provision in the Notariat Discrimination Act on the grounds of nationality which is prohibited under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So you have a smaller novelty in the area of notariat. On 11 April this year, the Republic of Slovenia, if I may say more, was reminded again by the European Commission of whether we have already abolished the condition of citizenship in the performance of the Notary profession. It is also necessary to know that, in the accession process of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to adapt the legislation in accordance with its competences so that the condition of reciprocity does not apply to citizens of the OECD Member States. Since the provisions of the applicable legislation on notariat are contrary to the fundamental principles and principles of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, such discrimination on the basis of nationality must also be abolished for all Member States of this organisation. The proposed regime, and this should be stressed, does not apply to third-country nationals, but the conditions laid down in the applicable Notariat Act remain unchanged. A key objective that the novel is pursuing is described. In addition to the proposed law, the provision on education acquired so far is being aligned with the current regulation of higher education, more specifically with the Higher Education Act and the Evaluation and Recognition of Education Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u156	Dearly beloved, once again a nice greeting on behalf of the Committee on Justice, which also addressed the proposal for a law amending the Notariat Act at its 14th session on 8 October 2013. In the procedure, the representative of the applicant, the Secretary of State, pointed out that it was a matter of compliance with the arrangements or requirements of the European Union. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, said that they had no special comments in terms of their tasks. Most of the debate focused on one amendment, which was tabled by Dr László Göncz on behalf of the community to this law, which touches on the requirement that notars should also be able to speak their language in areas where representatives of the national communities live. The representative of the proposer, that is, the Secretary of State, objected to this amendment on the grounds that the current regulation in the law is constitutionally appropriate and drew attention to the possibility that, should it be adopted, there could be a shortage of those who would meet the conditions for the provision of notary services, which means that access to these services would be hampered. Finally, in addition to the representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, the opposition voted for the amendment and the coalition against it was not adopted. Then, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Notariat Act be adopted in the text tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mrs Ludmila Novak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u158	Let me begin by explaining that the Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendments and additions to the Notariat Act, which we are considering today, with some comments which will be presented below. The solutions proposed provide equal access to notary occupation for all citizens of the European Union, the Swiss Confederation, the European Economic Area and the OECD. The opportunities of these citizens with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for access to the profession of notary are being levelled. That amendment to the Notariat Act means compliance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which concluded that the notary profession is not related to the exercise of public authority within the meaning of Article 45(1) of the EU Treaty or Article 51 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. In fact, the interiors generally carry out a certification activity which is not directly related to the exercise of power. Therefore, restricting access to the Notary profession on the basis of the condition of nationality is not justified. In New Slovenia, we are not inclined to constantly amend legislation, as this makes its implementation difficult. However, if interventions into marriage are really necessary, one novel should cover all necessary changes. The Minister of Justice announced legislative changes in the area of notariat a year ago and specifically highlighted the abolition of the numerus Clausus system. This is a restriction on the number of Notary cities. At that time, the minister was still a member of the previous government, and we welcomed this proposal. That is why in New Slovenia we expected that this novelty will be covered by this very novelty, which we believe is really necessary and necessary. Many European countries do not have a limited number of notary cities, and this change would bring them closer to the regulation of comparable Member States of the European Union. Anyone who meets the legal conditions for appointment to a notary place may become notary. More importantly, among notaries we would create the competition needed to ensure higher quality of services and also lower prices. According to New Slovenia, notary services in Slovenia are essentially expensive and overestimated. Although the prices of some of their services have already fallen. In addition, notaries shall acquire additional powers. The latest such news is the notary sale of immovable property secured by mortgage on the basis of a directly enforceable notary record. These procedures will be difficult, extensive and costly. Many notaries are already overloaded. Maintaining a limited number of notaries is contrary to the objectives pursued by the Government with the amendment of the Financial Insurance Act, which is shorter procedures. In Novi Slovenija we expect amendments and additions to the Notariat Act in the direction announced by the Minister before to be introduced into the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. Dr LászlóGöncz on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I regret that I will not be able to support the proposed amendments to the law presented by the Secretary of State for principle reasons, because we are today missing the opportunity to properly address the issue of the conditions of employment of notaries in the National Mixed Area in the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution and the legislation. In the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, we regret that the drafter of the law and the majority in the home labour body did not recognize the importance of our amendment to the open article of the law amending the Notariat Act. Since there have been concrete problems in this area in the near past and we have also discussed the possibility of the above-mentioned law-building in the past, we have legitimately tabled an amendment to the good faith that this legal-form gap is also being cut. The amendment was made because there is only one sentence, so that in Article 7, paragraph 8, the text is upgraded so that in the area where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the two languages are also spoken in addition to the Slovenian language. As a justification for the eligibility of our amendment, I should like to point out that the public and official use of the Italian or Hungarian language in the national mixed area is primarily laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution. This right can, however, be linked to Articles 64, 5 and 62 of the Constitution and can also be found in the act of independence by law on the ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages and the Framework Convention for the Protection of Minorities, in the special statute of the London Agreement and in other legal acts on the use of language. Since notariat is a public service, which also clearly provides for Article 1 of the Notariat Act, this condition should also apply to notaries. Due to the sensitivity of some personal and other cases in the context of the Notary Service, handling matters by translation can be an exceptional case, and by no means a rule, as some have explained. It should not be questionable that notaries for the occupation of employment in national mixed areas should also meet the conditions of knowledge of Italian or Hungarian. The argument that there could be a situation where we do not have a suitable candidate, who also masters the language of indigenous national communities, should not, in our opinion, be a reason to reduce the constitutional level of the rights of indigenous national communities in the area of legislation. Unfortunately, the lack of personnel, which we note, is probably not the fault of an individual or of the national community, so these interpretations do not materially endure. The interpretation that the proposed condition in the amendment would violate the right to a free economic initiative, since persons who otherwise fulfil the other conditions for the performance of a notary function could not be employed because of possible non-compliance with this condition, simply denies the basic principles of bilinguality and bilingual activity in the national mixed area. Such an explanation is not in the spirit of protecting the rights of national communities, which is very high in Slovenia. The essence of a consistent bilingual business would be to ensure that those who decide on the job in this area are also satisfied with this condition. This area is subject to specifications which are historically conditioned and constitutionally suitably regulated. Otherwise, the whole model of bilinguality and multiculturalism, which, of course, applies only to a specific area in the country or to two areas in Primorska and Prekmurje, is in fact denied. In such cases, other public servants may also be asked legitimately why they must meet such conditions. We are very sorry that there was no understanding or consensus on this issue, but I expect the competent ministry, which, by the way, is a judicial one, to find a solution to such issues as soon as possible, based on our assessment of clearly-made errors or partly injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Dr. Gonch. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, whose position will be presented by Mr Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending the Notariat Act is a result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in accordance with which the Republic of Slovenia must remove as soon as possible the conditions of reciprocity in accessing the profession of notary for nationals of the EU Member States, EEC and the Swiss Confederation. The current law on notariat allows foreign citizens access to the profession of notary only on a condition of reciprocity, and such regulation, according to the Court of Justice of the EU, constitutes discrimination based on nationality, which is prohibited by the Treaty of Action of the European Union. In April this year, Slovenia was thus again warned by the European Commission that a new law should be adopted as soon as possible to remove the condition of reciprocity. At the Committee's meeting, we also considered the amendment tabled by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group. The amendment proposed that, in addition to the condition that the Slovenian language should be actively mastered, the candidate should also actively speak Italian or Hungarian language in the areas in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live. In Positive Slovenia, we could not support such a solution for two reasons. Firstly, since we believe that the current regime is constitutionally appropriate, since the Notariat Act in Article 13 provides that in areas where the official language is also Italian or Hungarian, notary shall consist of notary documents, if the party uses Italian or Hungarian, in both official languages. If the parties or other participants do not understand the language in which the instrument is drawn up, the instrument must contain a clause that their content has been fully translated. He shall translate the notary or, at the request of the party, the interpreter. Secondly, because we believe that such a strict condition could lead to a situation where there would be no such notary in the individual area, as we know, the state is obliged to provide such services to citizens. We will support the proposal for a law amending the Notariat Act in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! We therefore have before us the amendment of the Notariat Act, which is the result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, by which the Court decided that the condition of legal and factual reciprocity should be abolished, which is a condition for the performance of the notary profession for the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Novela is also in line with the reform of higher education based on the Bologna Declaration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in the course of the debate on the Committee on Justice, we also heard a warning from a representative of the national community, Mr Lászl Gönč, who said that there should be a condition in the areas of the Italian and Hungarian national communities for the performance of the Notary profession also of Hungarian or Italian language, as it is a public service. We have also listened to the opinion of the representative of the proposed amendment to the Notariat Act, and we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should examine this issue in more detail and perhaps propose appropriate solutions in future or in future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that notar as a person of public trust and as an impartial legal adviser, with all due diligence, should advise all participants of a particular legal business on the right way and ensure legal certainty. In the field of notary service, we have unfortunately witnessed many times that the responsibility of notaries has not been sufficiently guaranteed. The lack of accountability has led to a lot of superficiality and error. Consider, for example, some examples of Oderu loan contracts that should be detected by notaries and also noted by the parties. It should be noted that inadequate and harmful provisions should be made, not only in cases such as Orion and Zbiljega, in which some borrowers were pushed to the brink of survival. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has a mess on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you very much. With the proposed amendment to the Notariat Act, we follow the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on discrimination based on nationality. At the same time, we follow the commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Republic of Slovenia has committed itself not to apply the condition of reciprocity to the citizens of the OECD Member States. If I summarize briefly the contents of the amendment of the law, it is therefore a matter of amendment or additions to Article 8 of the Notariat Act, which sets out the conditions for the candidate to fulfil the non-member city. The first point of Article 8 is complemented by the possibility of a notary city in addition to a Slovenian citizen to be occupied by a national of the EU Member States, the European Economic Area, a national of the Swiss Confederation or a national of the Member State of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In point 3 of the same Article, the text of one of the conditions is aligned with the legislation governing higher education and the evaluation and recognition of education. It refers to the designation of titles obtained in Slovenia and abroad after a final study of law or comparable education in the field of law. No matter who comes from or where it comes from, we expect the notary to act in accordance with laws and rules and follow a fundamental principle, that is, that there is a person of public trust. Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Brultz. Member of the Slovenian People's Party Group and Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find that the law before us is once again one of the laws that brings incomplete solutions, because instead of all the necessary articles, it changes to just a few provisions quickly. Once again, we have to decide quickly on bad proposals under the pretext of pressure from Europe or the implementation of directives, as is the case with important laws on the agenda of this meeting in several cases. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we therefore ask ourselves whether it would not be wiser to reject and prepare a comprehensive solution in all the necessary articles, as it is too often to change the same laws and even with incomplete quick solutions that only confuses positive legislation, even if a novel is being prepared, which will also regulate the area of notary work in its entirety. The Act, on a substantive basis, only brings an end to the condition of legal and factual reciprocity as a condition for the performance of the notary profession for the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and a minor correction concerning the designation of titles in order to comply with the reform of Slovenian higher education on the basis of the Bologna Declaration. Since this is a change that largely relates to the judgment of the EU court, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not object to the amendment of the law, but we expect the Ministry to present to the Member as soon as possible a comprehensive amendment to the Notariat Act, which has been announced for some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Opec. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Notariat Act. The proposal for this short novel contains two amendments. The first substantive amendment to the Notariat Act concerns the harmonisation of our acquis with European Union law, namely the implementation of the principle of reciprocity in access to the profession of notary. In this part, the amendments follow the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union by eliminating the requirement of reciprocity in access to the profession of notary for nationals of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation and the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The condition of exclusively Slovenian citizenship for the performance of a notary profession in the Republic of Slovenia is deleted. In this respect, Slovenia has already been invited in December 2011 to notify measures or at least deadlines for adoption of this amendment. The second proposed amendment is due to compliance with legislation governing higher education and the evaluation and recognition of foreign education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. We therefore conclude with a second reading of the proposal. However, the decision on the proposal will take place in the framework of the vote in about half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I also interrupt this agenda item and also interrupt the session of the National Assembly in half an hour, which we will continue to vote on. The sequel will be at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u172	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I understand this is going well. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the 18th periodic report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012. We are moving on to a decision on this report. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal recommended the 18th periodic report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Protection, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Social Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration. Can we come to the vote? We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Rail Safety following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 1. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Real Law following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Notariat Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 82 votes against 1. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Romane Tomc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of the Member State of the Romane Tomc concerning equal and fair treatment of citizens. Explanation of voice. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u173	Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you so much for saying that. I asked the Prime Minister whether we still have a social state, but I asked her if we still have a fair social state. In fact, all the data shows that this country is not equally fair to everyone. Some receive high benefits from public funds and therefore do not suffer any mortgages on their property, while other citizens who receive social assistance and are somehow at the edge of their economic survival are still burdened by mortgages. Since both receive funds from public funds, from the state budget or from other public treasury, of course both should be treated equally – but they are not. Therefore, we will continue to make some proposals to amend social legislation and other legislation that will allow our citizens and citizens to enjoy the same level of protection in this social state. With new taxes, with new burdens, the government is increasingly suffocating this country, citizens, citizens and, of course, the economy. And I asked the President of the Government whether it seemed fair to her that the one who received a thousand 800 euros of outstanding pension was treated as an equal citizen to the one who lived with 400 euros of pension, with a protective allowance of perhaps 150 euros, and he would have to pay it back sometime — if not him and his descendants. Social assistance in this country is no longer a real social aid, a security allowance is no longer a part of the pension or a social allowance, but it is a simple loan that must be repaid to the State at one time. That is why my question was first focused on the issue of justice. Not whether we still have a social state as such, but whether this country is just, is just for everyone. The President of the Government has answered everything else, only she has not answered that question. I do not know whether she understood it or whether because of the importance of this question, because she is aware that she is hurting everyone in this country, she deliberately avoided this answer. However, I believe that this issue is so pressing and so important for our entire space that it is right to have a broader debate on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you, too. Can we get to the vote? No, no, no. There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to report. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. It's amazing how different views are when we're in different situations. The undeniable fact is that social legislation, which was adopted in Svetlik time, has brought some improvements, and has also brought some shortcomings that are now being addressed by the new amendments we will be addressing on 6 November this year, and we are also making substantial improvements, not entirely, because we are in certain financial difficulties, as we all know. On the other hand, it must also be said that the system we have put in place has meant some kind of novelty of consequences that we could not fully anticipate. And by the time they were accepted, we had predicted that if the situation deteriorated, we would also accept adjustments. As far as extraordinary pensions are concerned, as if they had not experienced Article 143 of Zujf, the repeal of this Article before the Constitutional Court, as if you had not withdrawn under Article 307 of the Pension Law. I'm begging you, stop beating up stories about criminals and I don't know what kind of pensions. They were obtained on the basis of criteria in force in the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u176	Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, I'd like to ask, because of this, we're going to have a problem with the others, so we don't have to argue with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u177	Nevertheless, it is true to say that the findings expressed as the basis for the request for a debate were unfair and inadequate and, as a result, I will not accept this debate in any way. However, colleagues will certainly have the opportunity to discuss social legislation at a committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you. The following will explain Mr Jerko Čehovin's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you. I will not support the proposal for a simple reason because it suggests that the Government should violate the constitution and constitutional decisions already issued in this respect. Finally, I am also in violation of the Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Law, and I cannot agree to vote against those categories of people who have obtained the rights guaranteed by the Constitution in the country that has been created. In addition, I find it very inappropriate to account for the category of people who are slowly saying goodbye and to report that they are the reason for the problem of public finances. I cannot therefore support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The following will explain Mr Jožef Jerovšek's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, support this proposal for an extended debate on the response of the President of the Government. Colleague Romana Tomc asked the Prime Minister twice explicitly: "Does it seem fair to you that those who are the weakest pay the burdens of the current crisis, while others who receive extraordinary ratings, extraordinary supplements, do not?" And this issue has been deliberately avoided by the President of the Government. She didn't touch him at all, which I thought was frantic and amazing. In this week, the President of the Government has, unfortunately, repeatedly shown that the value of justice is not too close to her heart, that somehow she cannot be brought into the position of those who are so-called small people and are already below the threshold of poverty. The question raised by colleague Tomc is obviously a taboo for the President of the Government. Exceptional privileges are taboo, some say it's in the constitution, and I don't know what's not true, none of them are taboos. And I wonder how the President of the Government, who is today in Brussels on the European Council as a representative of the country, will play such a role when she represents a weaker article – whether she will surrender there immediately, will not defend Slovenia's interests at all, given that she has shown a complete absence of feelings for what is happening to the President of the Government in the National Assembly. That he still has 18,000 privileged pensions today, they're supposed to have been earned 70 years ago. That's insane! That is why this debate needs to be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I wish we could maintain our compassion for our fellow man. That is also why I hope and expect, respected colleagues and colleagues of the opposition species, that you will be happy to support the changes in social protection legislation on 6 November on the home labour body. Why? Because this new social protection legislation corrects some of the mistakes made in the past by previous social protection legislation and by Zujf adopted by the previous government. Because the correction of social protection legislation allows social sustainability for those who are most at risk in our country. That is why I, too, will not support this proposal made by my colleague Tomc, because I consider it to be only valuable populism and nothing else. On 6 November, you will have the opportunity to discuss current issues on a realistic basis. By the way, at one point, I listed what changes to social security legislation are all about. The material situation of single - parent families is improving, and this is essential. The situation of older recipients of social transfers is improving. The situation of pensioners is also improving in the field of protection. The situation of families with schooling children, large families, is improving. We are improving the conditions for obtaining exceptional financial social assistance. Since time isn't enough, I'm gonna finish at this point. I have four pages of printed positive changes that speak in favour of the government of Alenka Bratušek to preserve the social state despite the times of crisis. Not only are we keeping things going, we're moving forward because we're aware of the plight of our families.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u184	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! I fully agree with Mrs Romane Tomc's thinking, so I will also support the proposal for a decision on the debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you. There's still a desire to discuss it. I'd like to ask you to sign up for an explanation of vote. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please, on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u187	Even in my own name. It is probably not necessary to say that I will support my proposal, but I will explain once again because it has obviously not been understood what my proposal is. I will support the proposal because I want the debate not to be held on whether the new social legislation is changing and on what proposals we will have in this new social legislation. I support them. I'll probably support them in the future. But I asked about whether we have a just social state, a social state that is the same for all — not that is more social for one another and that is less social for the other. And, dear colleagues, some of you have applied to this site, and I am now applying back, you have not understood or consciously wanted to avoid this question, because this question or the answers to these questions are extremely painful. He's still receiving 18,000 fighters' pensions. In the majority of those who receive as real beneficiaries, that is to say widows or family members. We are still giving away €62 million from the state budget for these purposes. At all other ends, we're running out of money. The state sits on the property of those who, on the one hand, offer them social assistance – Mrs. Potata or allow – if the state grants social assistance, essentially grants a loan that should be repaid once. I argue on the basis of all the data when we look at the budget when we look at statistics, when we listen not least to the Ombudsman who said the same thing today, Slovenia is not the same social state for everyone. And it is right that when we change social legislation, we also think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Will I continue with the words of my colleague Tomcheva – is Slovenia a just social state? I think it is not, so it would be appropriate for respected colleagues and colleagues to support the request of colleague Tomcheva to hold a general debate. Those who were present today in the 2012 report of the Ombudsman, you could see that Slovenia is still far from a just, legal and social state. If you are in favour of a just and social state, then you will also support this proposal. Of course, if you don't support another country, you don't support more tycoons. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u190	Mrs Ramšak, I must warn you that it is not appropriate to politicise in the explanation of vote. You have to say how you're going to vote, and others will decide what they're going to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u191	Mr President, you have not interrupted others who have not spoken on this subject, and the second time you interrupt me, I ask you very much to have the same criteria in place. Once again, I would like to support Ambassador Tomchev's proposal, because I think that Slovenia is far from a just and social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u193	Your Honor! I will support the debate on the response of the President of the Government, whether we still have a fair social state. Many measures and actions justify the need to discuss this. See, here in Parliament we have proposals, such as a proposal for the implementation of budgets for the next two years, where you suggest that neither social transfers nor the lowest pensions will be aligned with inflation, that is with the rise in the cost of living, the next two years. That is to say, those who actually live from hand to mouth, which each euro is important to them, will not adapt to their income, but even though it is hard to earn when we talk about the lowest pensions, will not adjust their income by increasing prices, which we know are also higher due to the actions of this government due to, say, raising VAT, vignettes and the like. Then we also have an interesting illustration of this social state and new measures taken under the so-called law on the exercise of rights from public resources, new social legislation. You say or speak and say how much this will bring new better social rights – and there is no money in the budget for this. The amount of the budget for social transfers remains virtually the same as the estimated expenditure for this year. If you look at this, it is true, despite the tightening of our social picture and the increasing number of beneficiaries. On the other hand, certain privileged layers are not granted. And it is not true that the Constitutional Court did not allow an intervention in privileges. The Constitutional Court has allowed intervention in privileges, but it has challenged the criteria or that only these criteria are, and why we have chosen only these categories, are insufficiently justified. That's all. And if we tried to sharpen those criteria, we could interfere with those rights. However, this is not your goal, for you protect the privileged [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word. I'm sorry, Dr. Gorenak. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I will support what Mrs. Tomchev has proposed. And the explanation is as follows. From the President of the Government to the coalition MPs, all in a row, because I also hear it on the ground, they say, yes, Zuyf has reached out to the pensions, the ugly Yanshe government that did it, but we have a Constitutional Court that has abolished it. Look, I will support what Mrs Tomchev is proposing for the reason that what you and Madam Prime Minister say is a lie. For the first time, the law did not interfere with the pension and did not reduce any pension that was obtained for the full duration of the insurance and no disability pension or any other pension. The law reduced privileged pensions, obtained "in good eyes" in the previous system or later. Even if someone wrote a song about the Muka Copatarica and got 2,000 euros. What Mrs Tomchev is proposing must be supported for a fundamental reason, because that is not true. However, the Constitutional Court has not abolished this law or this work, but has made it very clear that the legislator, so Parliament, can reach out to privileged pensions, but must do so in another way. The problem that we have and the proponent points out is that the left policy option does not want to fall into privileged pensions. We are talking about those thousand 600 euros and more. They're the ones we're talking about. This should also be reported to the Slovenian public. One would expect those who build the most on pensioners to make that very clear. This is not about the pensions of Slovenian pensioners, but it is about privileged pensions that do not have a basis in working age. That is what Mrs Tomchev is pointing out, and that is why this needs to be supported. I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u196	Procedural. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u197	Dear Mr. President! I expect the President of the National Assembly or those who are sitting to intervene in the debate and remind a Member who is turning from a political official into a literary theorist. Using the headings of literary texts to argue uncontrolled views is at least, I can say, distasteful. And I'd like to ask some of you to warn me about that. I now understand that someone in his adult life may not have exceeded the aesthetic values of youth literature, but Muca Copatarica, by all criteria, is considered a quality youth text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you, too. I hope we understand this procedural warning and that we will try to stick to it. The next one with a word is Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u199	I'm not going to talk about pretty language because I don't know too much, but I'm going to have some data so that citizens and citizens can be aware of what we're talking about. I will support my colleague Tomce's voice in particular because we will be aware. First, the Constitutional Court said that somehow we were too limited in Zuyf and that we could abolish these privileges if we went further. We need, in this case, the political will, for those privileged pensions, a wider spectrum of these people, and then this will not be constitutionally disputed. Now let's just be concrete. Payments have been made in this last period, I speak with last year's data, 25 thousand fighting pensions, 24 thousand 834 pensions, of which 7 thousand 100 fighters are actually alive. Everything else is given to so - called families of fighters. Some retired then in the thirtieth year to the thirtieth year. Even those who are living fighters were born in 1939, and in the last ten years, 660 million euros were spent on these pensions from the budget. To make it clear to people and citizens what this means. We also do not dispute the pension of the fighters who are alive to receive this, but that the third generation will enjoy these pensions, but I think it takes common sense. Above all, during a period where people literally deny themselves, they are hungry. And one more thing, we borrow almost 2 billion money in foreign markets. Some healthy rational thinking is, it's not an ideological theme, but it's those who have enjoyed the privileges of this society for years and years, and I think these privileges must somehow end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, of course, support what Romana, my fellow Member, has proposed, out of conviction and what I have heard from the President of the Government. The Prime Minister of the Government has responded to my personal evaluation in a disgraceful manner. Her answers were questions, questions followed by what the previous government had done. In no way did she answer the fundamental questions raised by Romane Tomc. And that seems to me to be a deplorable, underestimating and absolutely rude attitude toward the National Assembly. This question has been well-intentioned, very clear, and the Slovenian people and all those sitting in Parliament would expect to respond to this quality. When I talk about this subject, I wonder if we are talking about the same social state. Or are we talking about the same social state when on the one hand we have a large majority of pensioners who have a pension of 300 and 400 euros. On the other hand, we have 18,000 people who receive €65 million a year. That's how much you spend on these 18,000 pensions a year. Is this a real social state? And on the other hand, I calculated that if we were to divide this 65 million by 500, out of these 65 million, we could give the 130 thousand pensioners 500 euros per month of pension. And now, on the one hand, we have really catastrophic pensions, there are thousands to thousands of 800 euros, and on the other hand, 300, 400, 500. And you are telling us and trying to convince the Slovenian people that this is fair, that it is a social state. Please, are we talking about the same social state?Oh, my God! You have ever allowed yourself to ask pensioners who have 300, 400 euros and, on the other hand, you are defending these privileged and privileged pensions. Who gave you this right, I wonder.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. That question, raised by colleague Tomchev, is particularly topical today. The most up-to-date for 115 000 unemployed people is even more up-to-date for 100,000 pensioners with a lower pension of 500 euros, as well as for 50,000 employees who receive a minimum wage. And for these people, who are our fellow citizens, it is still important that we have an equal and just social state for all. In the light of the measures proposed by the Government of Alenka Bratušek concerning non-coordinated income, which of course means that these people with the lowest income will also pay more incomes, for example, a four-member family with an average income of €330 more per year, will also pay more income to those with a minimum wage, in short, all. In view of the measures proposed by taxation of property or property, which it is clear that, due to the specificity of construction in Slovenia 20 and 30 years ago, there is a significant difference between the value of assets and income, which means that these people with the smallest income will still be further taxed by this tax, this question or the failure of the President of the Government to answer this question is still an important and worrying issue for the Slovenian State and for the Slovenian people. If people are actually going to have to be nationalized because of this tax, this is even more worrying.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you, too. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. I invite you to report. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I'll support my colleague Romane Tomc's proposal. First of all, because Romana Tomc didn't propose anything. Secondly, because Romana Tomc is not who you are, given her experience so far in politics, in ministries, in other institutions and so on. And the third time because he knows the problem he's talking about. I come from a rural municipality where the registered unemployment rate is about 20%. In our country, we know what one euro or 10 euro or 50 cents means for a family. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia also proposed an extraordinary meeting of the committee responsible when we talked about poverty. We are not talking about solutions here today, but I think it would be good if we could talk about this issue, as proposed by our colleague Roman Tomc, and try to find a better solution for a better, fairer social state. Yes, privileged pensions are not the result of the contributions paid, as our respected colleague, also from Pomurj, says very well. But if I try to distribute an average privileged pension annually, I can find that for a modest family that can live modestly, it would be enough there for four months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the debate on the response given by the President of the Government to the question of my fellow Member. The President of the Government said that the budget is social, and in the same breath, you all add up the millions that you will collect with the new tax so that you will spend them cheerfully untransparently. This year you have prepared special gifts for taxpayers. Each will have to contribute 200 euros to the rehabilitation of two private banks, where there are mostly friends from Forum 21, who all laugh from their villas, swimming pools, yachts and apartments in Florida. You have encouraged vignettes, encouraged transports for primary school students and students, changed incomes, that you will also draw something more out of the pockets of virtually every citizen and thus reduce their salaries, raised VAT, and today on the boards explain how much less resources we will have in health care and everywhere because these are new burdens. At the same time, these new burdens are mainly for taxpayers, although the prime minister then said that a minimum of 3 euros would be given more. Ask them how much more they actually give. For all these reasons, I will support the debate on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. Some of you voted in favour of Svetlik's law in 2010, which abolished state pensions. 17,000 farmers or farmers have lost 170, 190 euros of state aid at the moment. And that was for people who, for the most part, couldn't pay for their lives in the pension system because they were prevented from doing so. No one was protesting at the time, not the guardian of human rights, not you who are here as the guardian of righteousness. And you have accompanied this action by saying that it is a fair burden-sharing. As compensation for this measure, you then offered a protective supplement with a clause that whoever decides to receive it would sit on his mortgage, on his property. This was a compensatory measure. At the same time, it receives from the state budget a whole bunch of people who are largely in addition to pensions, which are larger than thousands of euros. You did not intervene in any of these rights in 2010, not in 2011, nor in 2012 and you are not now taking any action. And worst of all, none of these countries sit on property. And when you talk about a just social state, it may be necessary to provide social rights first for those who are barely in line with state aid, and then it will be up to those who have a thousand or a thousand 200 thousand 500 euros in pensions. We want to discuss this and that is why I will support it, because these fundamental dilemmas of society simply need to be resolved. We support the rich and limit the rights of the poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you, too. Mr. Jakob President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll explain my voice, too. I support this debate because I think that this issue is extremely important and deserves a discussion at the next meeting or answers to questions deserve a broader debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly. However, I must say that many measures have been taken in the past, and there have been attempts to make things right, and unfortunately they have failed. For example, the state pension mentioned now, which we fought for 13 years ago, was driven by one of the laws, but also the then coalition saw that this was a wrong decision and we brought it back to the first amendment of the pension law, which was then at the referendum with the help of many that had been abolished. I deeply regret this and I think that this loving state scholarship, which was given to older women of agriculture and craftsmanship at the time, would be those who were unable to protect themselves in their time who received some poor money – EUR 188. There are a lot of problems in the social field, and I therefore support the fact that we are having a general debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you, too. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We heard today that Roman Tomc's colleague isn't exactly that kind of thing. Magus, too. Alenka Bratusek, president of the government, is not just anyone. I listened to her answer, and I was satisfied with the answer. However, if we are talking about a just and social state, we need to know that this one fell more than twenty years ago by deleting more than 25 thousand people. And the beating of human rights here in the National Assembly continues. Last time I saw it, it was written in a symphony with Zuyf. Regrettably, those who wrote this and fortunately people did not, for the Constitutional Court prevented the writing of this symphony from continuing. That is why, of course, I will not participate in this work alone. With the answer, mags. I am pleased with Alice Bratusek, so I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 45. [[in favour of a vote of 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jakob Preseknik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek to the question of Mr Jakob Presečnik concerning the strategy for the development of air traffic in the case of the sale of the central Slovenian airport. Mr Jakob Preseknik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to make amends to my previous performance, which I believe is that I said a state scholarship, which is a state pension. I'm sorry. We are all certainly aware that for economic cooperation with foreign, investment, for the needs of the local population, of course, a quality central Slovenian airport is needed. I'm sure we're all aware of that. In doing so, small shareholders, as we have heard, if not from the media, slightly refused to invest in the second phase of the construction of the passenger terminal weeks ago. However, according to my assessment and even after the assessment of the media reports, I do not have any other reports, has not done enough to regain the voting rights that have been forfeited to her, I think since last year. In doing so, I should point out that this investment has been granted European funds of around €15 million, that the airport has its own resources for this purpose of around 35 million, and that only about 5 million credits would be required to close the financial structure. I think we can see from this, not only how important the investment is in an unfinished passenger terminal, but that this investment is also easy to make. The second question, when selling or issuing a concession, I expect that this will not take place in the direction that the airport will be sold to a nearby airport to which it would be connected, as I call it with an air trolley bus to drive passengers from our airport to this foreign airport. My question was what plans does the Government have with the central Slovenian airport. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to hold a broader debate on the responses of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister mags. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the The explanation of vote shall be mag on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u217	Your Honor! I asked the President of the Government about the effects, the results of the Law on the Seizure of Property obtained in an illegal manner. The results are two years later. The Minister of Justice has indicated that no assets have been seized under this law for two years. An extremely bad message for the citizens, an excellent message for the tycoons. I really want to know what the problem is that this law is not effective. I want to know why we cannot confiscate illegally acquired property while they can do so in Serbia, and only in the first year of force have they taken it away for 100 million euros, while they can do so in Italy when they can do so in Germany and elsewhere. I want to know what the problem is. Is there a problem in people or is there a problem in law? If there is a problem in people, then in the judiciary, we have a broader and more difficult problem. But if there is a problem in the legislation, then we are sitting in Parliament, so here to solve this problem. And this debate I have proposed would definitely help us get to the bottom of the problem. Therefore, whoever is at least up to the point of justice in this society should support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u218	Thank you. The next person who wishes to explain his vote on behalf of the parliamentary group is Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I will vote against such a proposal by Mr Tonin, not because I would not want to take the illegally acquired property away from those who deserve it. Absolutely the opposite. Even in Positive Slovenia, we are outraged that this has not yet happened. But unlike those who would talk about it, we react. As you know, Mr Tonin, on a proposal from Positive Slovenia, it was also decided on the Committee on Justice 14 days ago that the Government would submit a new amendment to this law within one month and that there would be a large, large legal time available in accordance with the legislative procedure to discuss this in detail. There's obviously something wrong with this marriage. That's also what the profession says. The positive Slovenia has placed the amendment of this law as one of the key points in the coalition agreement. Since we've come to power, we've been working hard on this law and 14 days from now, this law will be in procedure three weeks from now. However, in speaking of which, I would say that all actions are under ownership, we had one such debate yesterday on the Committee on Finance, on extremely difficult legal issues. In Slovenia property rights are extremely protected – more than in some countries. And even in this case, it's an invasion of property rights. As in other similar cases, this intervention should be properly obtained in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in accordance with other constitutional rights, and this is something very difficult, which is why the Ministry of Justice has so far worked on this law. But the law will now be ready and let us hope that it will have positive effects. And when the law is in the process, Mr Tonin, it will be a long time to discuss this and, yes, I hope that your Group of Members will also have a concrete solution, how this intervention in property rights can be better achieved. Prosecutors themselves have warned that, in the way that the law has been written now, this reversed burden of proof has not actually been enforceable, and they have also called for assistance under the new law and regrettably that this law has not been adopted already in your mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u220	Thank you, too. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. This time I invite you to report because there are more of you. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor. No, no, no. Mr. Marjan Pojbich. No, no, no. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In the introduction, it must be said that this should be supported. Why should we be supportive? Because it's not just some ordinary change of law. That's not the question. Those changes will or will not be because the result will be the same in one year. Here is one other fundamental issue, and in this context the debate proposed by Mr Tonin needs to be supported. The question is, they don't want to work. Justice doesn't want to work! That's the question. The question is that the prosecution organization that runs it knows who, we also know where it fits politically, just doesn't want to do anything about it. That's the question. It's not just about implementing this law either. This is, for example, the question of the Ljubljana Bank. Year and something Mr. Prosecutor has things on the table and nothing has been done so far. He's assigned one prosecutor who has a case in his drawer. He himself said that this prosecutor deals with these issues of the Ljubljana Bank because we know that we have a billion-dollar hole, half-time. So no change in the law you're going to propose can bring anything you want. It's just a farce. Something has to be done: it is also necessary to join the prosecution's organisation. This is a fundamental issue and there could be a debate on this in the context of Mr Tonin's proposal. There's nothing else that can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u222	Thank you. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u223	Why would it make sense to support this debate? If we wait for a renewed proposal from the Government, then those of you who have been in this House for a long time, you know that the whole debate will be about certain articles, whether this article is better, how we would have dealt with the matter in one way or another, but we will not have a general discussion, how we want to do it, or what principles we want to do an intervention in property rights. Whether we are defending the Italian model, which says that first they will seize the criminal's property, and then only in the ongoing proceedings will it be shown whether this property will be returned to him if it turns out that he is innocent, or whether this property will be definitively confiscated. In our case, however, we have a case so arranged that our judiciary must first show that someone has obtained a certain asset in an illegal way, and then this proves how this property has been made. These are general concepts that this Parliament should talk about and that we should not avoid and say, and this is not a matter of debate, and we will discuss these matters later. If we want to move something forward here at this point, then this debate needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Of course I will support this debate. It is necessary, very urgent, for two years when the judiciary does not implement the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property, they point to sabotage. It's a classic sabotage. And I can't say that if, but now we've ordered and decided that the law will be recast. I proposed this decision on the Committee and for tactical reasons, the Positive Slovenia then took it before me, because I proposed it in the debate. But it's about stalling them. I believe them and understand them that they have been ordered to do everything on a tactical basis to prevent the courts from judging the seizure of illegally acquired property. One year ago, when we were discussing the prosecutor's report, I asked the Attorney-General why this law was not being implemented, and I said to put forward a plan of prosecution. And he said, "We'll make our own choices, choose what we're going to pursue." So it's a conscious disregard for persecution. As a result, the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, those who are committed to arranging Slovenia to restore confidence in this country in order to restore hope for young generations, must accept this debate without delay. If they can be persecuted in Serbia, Croatia and Italy, then we must also have such lawyers who are capable of doing so. It's not that lawyers say that these are extremely complicated legal issues. If we, the laymen, were to say that, it would be kind of logical, but lawyers can't say that. For this reason, support, those who support this country, this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the proposal made by my colleague, Matthew Tonin. I think that this should actually be our practice – that for key laws after a period of, say, two years, let us analyze whether this law works or does not work. It's supposed to be practice. And now we see that this marriage doesn't work. Because, look what happens – the National Assembly adopts the law and then it seems to us that we don't care how this law is implemented in practice. And thank God that colleague Tonin has learned the fragnant information that this law is not being implemented, but it is crucial. Now you will be the ones who think and believe one of the ministers of this government who says that the untouchable are no longer, that the holy cows are no longer, of course you will vote against, because you will say, by this vote "against" Slovenia is a super legal state. And I don't believe that, so I'm going to vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal for a debate. The Act on Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin was proposed by the Pahor government. In her name, the main role was played by the Zares Group. If they hold the claims made by Mrs Kociper, then this law is deliberately written in such a way that it cannot be implemented. And now I'm just asking how this coalition, which is very similar, is going to fix this law by being operational. Probably not. I would also like to say that interventions to property rights are sometimes very simple, even on the basis of the same or similar decisions. In Triglav Park you have decisions to demolish buildings, and some of the older ladies have broken this facility, and it has been in it for, I don't know, 20 years, and Mark Jaklić has not been able to do so in 7 years on the basis of the same decision. And if this is how it works and this is how the Law on Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin is implemented, if it is expected that some action will be done on the basis of this for those who have afforded it or have done it, then we are probably waiting for nothing — even with the novel that you are probably preparing — because it will only be further protection that nothing will be done. The key problem is in justice. On the basis of the reports, it is likely that they are enormous in all these stories that can be done extremely much. Things are probably very simple because it's not hard to get the data, but nothing is done. Why things stand, it is also necessary to ask in this way: by debate, if they do not work otherwise, perhaps in some other way to amend legislation to measure the effectiveness of work in the judicial system. However, this debate needs to be opened in my opinion and, therefore, I will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. The vote was 34 to 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Member Robert Hroat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anja Kopač Dark to Robert Hroat's parliamentary question on real estate tax. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the question of the Member State Tomaž Lisca on the third development axis. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Dragutin Mate, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question of Dragutin Mate in relation to waiting periods in health. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Senko Plitčanič, to the question of Mr Horvat's question on the preparation of appropriate legislative solutions for the disclosure and prosecution of persons responsible for the dissolution of the Slovenian banking system. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support this proposal. In fact, after the third meeting of the commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, which was already held on 2 July this year, and when we considered the assessment of the situation of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in the presence of members of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, this document has the date of March 2013, President Goran Klemenčič said, if I suspect the debate, that they had said that, for barbarians, excuse the expression, in the Slovenian banking system, the guilty grey eminence of the Slovenian banking system and that, since it prevents it, cannot be identified or named by names and surnames. Thus, colleagues and colleagues, this debate or vote on this proposal of the decision can also be translated into a decision on whether you are in favour of allowing the competent authorities, through legal solutions, to identify the grey eminence of the Slovenian banking system as soon as possible. So those who are actually guilty of breaking up the Slovenian banking system. Or on the other hand, to be even more understanding.: It is a matter of deciding whether we support, you support Minister Senko Pličanič in his efforts to bring the grey eminence of the Slovenian banking system as soon as possible before the time of justice. We talk so much about the banking system, it's the cancer of our country. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it is good that we here support a minister who sincerely seeks to determine who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to be destroyed and who continues to be destroyed by Slovenian banks and who is to be brought to justice. At the same time, the Minister will tell you the difficulties he is having in this endeavour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u232	Thank you. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold discussions at the next meeting on the agreement of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, on the question of mags. Andrej Visiak concerning the reorganisation of administrative units and customs and tax administrations. Mr Vizjak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u233	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Slovenia is currently regionally divided into 12 statistical and development regions. Within these regions certain institutions have also been formed and the country has such a different organisation within these 12 regions. He's got all kinds of exhibits, offices. This territorial division of state administration provides important services not only to people but also to local communities and to all development factors in that environment. They therefore constitute an important support environment for the functioning and functioning of these development ambitions of each region towards reducing development differences. Information has also come to the public that the merger of the customs and tax administrations into the so-called financial administration is working on the project so that the transactions will no longer be 12 of these territorial units, but only 8. A new regional division of Slovenia is prejudiced and the impact of some regions that have so far had all the regional components is diminishing. By the way, they include Posavije, Koroška, Zasavje and some other region. This also opens the door to life and, last but not least, the possibility of developing these regions. Let me just say, in Posavje we have 32 regional institutions that employ about 2,000 people. After this division, it is no longer specifically in Brežice, nor in the customs or tax administration, but it would be in Novi mesto and would have some kind of depository of this tax administration in Brežice. The same is true in Koroška, similar to that of Zasavje. I think that's bad. That this is some preconceived future landscape arrangement. The same is true when Minister Virant wants to introduce administrative districts and exhibitions instead of existing administrative units. He also put the number 8 at the starting point here. That's supposed to be after the 8th and the exhibitions. I don't think this is the right way. And it is right, honourable Members, to decide what the future regional division will be like here in Parliament, not under the cover of various reorganisations of the state administration. That's what individual ministers do, and that's what's out of sync with each other. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I propose this public debate and, in particular, those Members coming from the affected regions, as well as more broadly to support it, because I think these will be positive signals for future solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u234	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Franci Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u235	I will be very pleased to support this proposal for a debate in the National Assembly. I believe it's like the mag said. Visjak, we are responsible for Slovenia being well and effectively organised, regardless of who is in the parliamentary group, whether we are in coalition or opposition. What is being done in recent times when proposals for the abolition of municipalities are being shaken out of hand, the second time for the establishment of some administrative thefts, the third time someone brings together institutions of regional importance, talks about the fact that we do not have a clear strategy in this area in Slovenia. The debate in the National Assembly is necessary and I think that one of the key problems of the Republic of Slovenia today is that we have simply never accepted the principle of subsidiarity and found out which level would be best served. We all know that the regulation of local self-government is also disabled in this work, that we have no other level of local self-government and that something needs to be done in this area. The fact that such uncoordinated proposals come from the hands of Parliament, and then we eat these bones is an inappropriate path, so we support the Slovenian People's Party to hold a debate in the National Assembly. Whether this proposal will be put to the vote today is a good basis, or we will be doing this in the Slovenian People's Party in a very short time. I think it is necessary, and it is right that we really do what citizens and citizens expect us to do, that they will not knock on us if someone is in the Positive Slovenia Group or the National Gazette, and these ministers are shutting down your institutions and we have local very big problems. It is therefore right to adopt a strategy where this will not be an individual minister, nor lobbying in the parliamentary groups and the domain of a coalition. This goes beyond these limits, goes beyond the time of a coalition, but after these years, after 1995 when the local self-government was first introduced in the Republic of Slovenia, several times completed, sit down and clearly develop strategies. We are also reminded of this by legal experts and experts in this field, and indeed as we are doing, and as Minister Virant pursues these matters, it is a teaching example of how such things should not be dealt with.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u236	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Kavtičnik. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u237	Thank you. We are also aware of this problem in the coalition, but we do not intend to solve it in such a way as to open a public debate with a question from the Member State. This is too important and difficult matter that will have to be solved differently. The Minister or Government will have to come up with a proposal, not by talking, sounding, and so on. The government will have to come up with a proposal, which, of course, we will have to rethink thoroughly and carry out some in-depth debate and debate. Representatives of municipalities, local communities and so on must also be included. We will not be able to resolve this with our own question or answer, but a thorough and in-depth debate is needed. I will not support this proposal at the moment. However, I will endeavour and support all those proposals to ensure that the Government comes as soon as possible with a thorough solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u238	Thank you. In his own name, he has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u239	Your Honor! This question was not raised on the basis of some indications or just some information or media records, but rather very specific documents from two ministries. At the Ministry of Finance, where a regulation on the formation of new financial offices has already been drawn up, eight plus one. This is a concrete document, which is already in interdepartmental coordination, as well as working material at the Ministry of the Interior, where the text and competences lost by administrative units will be coordinated and transferred to administrative boundaries. It's all already written. These are documents, government documents that are coming in. I believe that the way to become secretive to parliamentarians, that is, at the level of the government and the ministry, is not right. It is right that we should speak in this House about such important issues, which also concern the future regionalisation of this country. If, unfortunately, the Government does not come to the National Assembly with this general proposal, we must force the Members. There's no other way. The reorganisation of administrative units, financial administrations will also pressure the reorganisation of all other institutions such as employment institutions, health insurance institutions, pension and disability insurance institutions, forest administrations. There is also a promise of regionalisation or deforestation in the forest sector. I think that what is happening is one precedent for future regional divisions, which will happen quietly with the decisions of the competent ministers or worse – with the reorganisation of institutions. At the Institute for Forests, it is not necessary to have any decision of the government at all, but merely to reorganise one specific institution. And that's a danger, folks, so I think it's right for parliamentarians here to just say something.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u240	Thank you. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Actually, I didn't talk about my voice tonight because I know how sorry it looks. The proposal for any debate by the opposition is largely submitted by the opposition. It's just when the left option is in power. When our option was in power and there was some clever proposal from the opposition at the time, some Pukšič even supported this and we had a debate in the National Assembly and there was nothing wrong with it. Today, however, what I hear from the coalition Members is that it is a good matter to discuss this, that you are also concerned, and you are hiding from the opposition, from the public debate in the National Assembly, but of course it is shameful. One such member, who had a proposal at the time in the opposition, was supported. That's why, colleagues and colleagues, we don't believe you, we don't believe you, because you don't trust each other, and you're obviously lying to yourself. That's why what's going on with the Real Estate Act is happening. First you accept the budget and then each one jumps around. They'd say monkeys on the farm. That's why we have what we have in the country today. Yesterday, in Finance, they wrote down where Slovenia is today. The numbers are horrifying. It's not my assessment, it's someone who even knows the economy. Economic activity is still falling, young people are leaving, prospects and hopes for a better tomorrow. That's your coalition. And even now you do not hope to discuss such important matters as the reorganisation of Slovenia in the National Assembly. I'm really embarrassed where I am.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u242	Thank you. Can we vote? More mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Very briefly. There have been a number of indications that, after all, there have been coalition MPs and MPs or appeals that we will not vote on mistakes, because this is a topic that concerns all of us who do not come from large centres. And colleague Vizjak, you know that I come from that region that has undoubtedly lost the most in the past, as far as institutions, state institutions at the local or regional level. And you will recall, fellow opposition members, the discussions we had in the National Assembly a good year ago when the issue of the abolition of the regional information centres was on the agenda. At that time, we had a similar question from the opposition Members and asked you not to abolish such important institutions as the regional information centres overnight. We have asked for public debates, we have not been heard. And I have to say. Yes, thank you to present Minister Jakic for listening to our very well-founded proposals then and to the warnings and to the establishment of all the regional centres, including in those regions that are more remote or at risk. Social work centres are also one that is likely to be or will be subject to regionalisation. You know that too, Comrade Vizjak, because discussions have begun in your mandate. But that I won't be discussing this subject for too long now, I believe the administrative thefts are not on the government's agenda for once. And the proposals as they were given, absolutely also for Members coming from, as I said, endangered regions, so that we will not agree to any insinuations that appear in the public eye, but will require when the time for this is a well-founded debate based on facts. Once again, in the past, Zasavje suffered great damage, too much damage because the debates were prevented despite requests from Members and Members coming from those places. But as I say, I will not support such a proposal, I believe that time is enough, and believe me, we will stand to achieve what is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Franci Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u245	I'm going to help make it not so hard to vote. I had previously announced that we would talk about this briefly in Parliament. Tomorrow's Slovenian People's Party Group is proposing an urgent committee meeting to discuss local self-government and the financing of local self-government, so I don't care how you vote today. We will talk about this briefly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u246	Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Prevc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Sam Omerzel, to the question of Mr Prevc's mission regarding the construction and maintenance of state roads. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] No decision is taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitčanič, to Sonja Ramšak's question on insolvency proceedings. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u247	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Not because I would not be satisfied with Minister Pličanič's replies, but because I would like you to support the general debate on my parliamentary question. It's an extremely important subject. As I note, today the government has not confirmed new insolvency legislation, which is also bad in view of today's tragic events in Maribor. Inadequate insolvency law causes trauma to people. In my parliamentary question, I drew attention to some irregularities or inconsistencies that are mainly linked to the Lysin treaties, non-controversy of claims and exchange disputes. I think that this is also a very important issue for the development of the economy and for the well-being of people and citizens and citizens, so I hope, my fellow Members and colleagues, that you will also support the proposal for a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u248	Thank you. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovška, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Jerovška's delegation regarding the purchase of equipment at the House of Dr Jožet Potrč. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to Andrej Čuš's question on the project on the establishment of the provinces. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to the question of Mr Alenka Jeraj, on the appointment of directors of Directorates. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u249	Thank you. On 27 February of this year, the President of the Government of Mags took office. Alenka Bratušek said: "One of the goals that improves our situation is to attract and respect the profession. High-level Slovenian experts expect politicians to help lead this country and rightly expect us politicians to be able to find and listen to these top-notch experts and then push their ideas into a viable management plan with this country. That is why the new government will try to attract experts into its work and listen carefully to them." The government has indeed appointed two V.D. directors, i.e. v.,d. Director-General for kindergartens and primary school mags. Vlado Poličnik and v.d. Director-General for secondary and higher education Elviro Šushmelj. None of these candidates have passed a positive test on the official board which determines the competence of such directors or candidates. I am aware that the Minister can choose his team and we do not challenge anyone, but I wanted to know from the Minister what specific conditions if those requested by the official council did not meet the above-mentioned lady, which of the conditions of leadership, quality or whatever they were already pushing for choosing them as their co-workers. Was political affiliation the only criterion, or was it the right side or something? I have not received this reply, so I propose that, given that the Prime Minister has assured us that we will have experts in all places to discuss this. In fact, education and the areas of kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools and higher schools are certainly not insignificant, even more, we have been able to monitor a lot of things lately, which I do not think is relevant in education. We have quite a few problems in these areas. Whether these areas will suffer harm and who will lead them if the heads of the Directorate are the people for whom the official council has found that they are not experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u250	Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Dragutin Mate, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the Dagutin Mate question concerning the agreement between Slovenia and Italy on the gas terminal in the northern Adriatic. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Balance of Public Finances in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Balance Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the third framework loan leased by the Eco Fund, the Slovenian Environmental Public Fund of the European Investment Bank for the financing of environmental projects under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The draft law will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on Cosmetic Products after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present, for 82, against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national Youth Programme 2013-2022. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the motion for a resolution inconsistent. Mr Andrej Chus has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u251	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The number of young people in the Republic of Slovenia is declining very quickly. For example, in the previous decade, the number of young people in the Republic of Slovenia has dropped by 11%, and this decade we can expect a 20% drop in the young population in our country. The number of elderly people in Slovenia is expected to triple by 2050. Slovenia is first in the European Union after temporary employment, which is a worrying information. It is also worrying that we are at the very top of the European Union in Slovenia when we are talking about the proportion of young people living with their parents. The proportion of these is about two thirds of young people between the ages of eighteen and forty-four. All of these are reasons why we may have made a mistake here in the past, so the situation of young people is worse from day to day. As I said before, we are all responsible for this: youth, politics, education, everyone. And the Flossom, that the young are the ones that the world stands on, we are no longer able to listen to in the parliamentary group. Let me quote one of my good friends, Jeanne: "We like to say that the young world is standing, but it seems to me that there are loans on young people that will be returned to future generations." The resolution on the national Youth Programme 2013-2022 is well prepared, and we regret the only fact that the coalition was not prepared to support the SDS Group's amendment, which would include more economic and craft representatives in the cross-sectoral design of youth policies. At the same time, we call on the government of Alenka Bratušek to stop creating fiscal measures that literally force young people abroad. In the coming days, we will also be looking at amendments to the Income Act, which will further tax young migrants, instead of admitting their efforts to go abroad and work hard instead of milking the social state at home, we will punish them. We will support the resolution in the SDS Group and, of course, remind the Minister of the delay in concrete actions and activities, we will take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u252	Thank you. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It's 79 votes against 3. [[in favour of 79 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2020. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The resolution on the Youth Programme and the resolution on adult education are, in fact, complementary to the resolution, as this resolution on adult education also allows for elements that open up opportunities for those young people who have dropped out of regular education. High-quality education for adults and the search for non-formal pathways of education enable young, middle-aged and older people to actively spend their lives in all their ages and to follow that famous saying that man is never too old for learning. We support both resolutions in the Group of Social Democrats. We have also actively participated in their emergence, and we hope that these cracks in terms of things that show resentment, if any amendment has not been adopted, cannot cloud the positive objectives, intentions and effects that these two resolutions will bring. Of course, we will also support this resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u254	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u255	We will also support this resolution in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, as we also supported the resolution on the national youth programme. The resolution follows a focus on what the government has been talking about for a long time – I am talking about this government – that our society is a knowledge-based society. The resolution follows lifelong education and somehow includes informal education, which is the upgrade or continuation of formal education. Thus, the resolution is a good basis for all the acts, the implementation plans that follow. It is an upgrade to the existing education system and goes beyond daily policy and daily political thinking, because education is something that must have a longer term and a longer planning period. In Positive Slovenia we will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u256	Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on extradition. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on the cross-border enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Military Cemetery The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. On 16 October 2013, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 8, paragraph 3, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, that he appoint Sam Jereb as the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Court of Auditors Act, a member of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed for a period of 9 years from the date on which he takes office. The proposal for a law was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm sorry, change. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u257	Your Honor! Although we will decide on the candidate for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia by secret ballot, let me start by saying that the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal by the President of the Republic that only Jereb be appointed to this function. We would like to point out that in this nomination procedure in the parliamentary group, we have conducted interviews with most of the candidates who have, as a rule, demonstrated a high level of professional competence for the possible performance of the other Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. We believe that, given the relatively large number of registered quality candidates, the decision of the President of the Republic has been so much more difficult, but it has certainly been carefully weighed, so we will support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u258	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the fourth paragraph, Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors on the appointment of a national assembly shall be decided by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Chairpersons and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. It's a mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Kurnjek, Parliamentary Group of the National List, and Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I ask if anyone objects to the Commission's proposal. If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 60 votes for, no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Please, Member of Parliament and Members, who will assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 19.10 p.m. and will last until 19.25 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt the 21st item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u259	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of another Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 24. Ten. 2013 83 ballots were distributed, 83 ballots were delivered. 15 votes were invalid, 68 votes were valid. There were 46 votes in favour, with 22 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, only Jereb was appointed second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors by the majority of the votes of all Members. I ask Mr Sam Jereb, second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, to join us in the Chamber. Mr. Only Jereb, I beg you to swear before the State's election.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u260	I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, fairly, conscientiously and impartially.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u261	I congratulate the other Deputy Court of Auditors and wish him much success in his work. If you'd like to talk to the National Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u262	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! I thank you for your expressed support and understand it first and foremost as a support for the work that is still valid not only for me but also for my colleagues, and, of course, second and second, as a significant commitment to further and even greater work in the coming term of office, and I also hope for a successful cooperation with you during this term of office. I'm going to invest a lot of energy, effort and all the knowledge that I have and that I have to do this function well. Thank you again. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u263	Thank you and good luck! We are moving on to the examination of the proposal for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election of Natalia Horvat Pasar to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I will also now say about the next item on the agenda or the next election of the candidate for judge or judge. The SDS Group will not contribute to the vote, not only to this judge, judge, but also to the future. This is not a matter of opposition to a specific person with a specific name and a specific name, nor will it be a matter of future opposition to the system. We have a system of loving judges here in the National Assembly, and we are one of the few countries that does it that way. The election of judges in the National Assembly is, in some ways, the rest of the past, and until now, all the national assemblies have behaved as baking ovens. We have simply voted, all the votes so far, as I recall, after some automaticism and with this pressure on the button, but here sometimes someone has even been wrong and opposed, but this was very little, but 20 years and more are held in this national assembly all the votes in such an automatic manner and, of course, automatically by this vote, we also grant a so-called permanent term. From 1991 to today, the Slovenian judiciary has not experienced the transformation it should have experienced. Never. The Slovenian judiciary is also now operating in a sarcophagus, operating in a vacuum, operating in an imaginary world that is not a world of reality. In particular, not the world of reality in terms of effective prosecution of crime. The Slovenian judiciary is also, in a way, bound by acts which it has only adopted and which it still accepts, or by laws adopted by this National Assembly. Slovenian citizens have no right to see the face of a judge who judges on behalf of those same citizens. However, let me remind you that we can be on television – and you still have, on YouTube today, you can watch the announcement of Berlusconi's judgment and you have all three judges there who have made such a decision on behalf of the Italian people. If you go to Croatia, you can see the judge who made the decision on Sanader's conviction, that is, the former Prime Minister, out of respect for the people, to the courts and everything else stood and read the verdict in the camera. This didn't happen in the Slovenian space. Slovenian judges take decisions on behalf of the Slovenian people and Slovenian people must not see who these judges are. However, if a magazine or a portal publishes a judge’s face, that court shall prohibit it. Furthermore, it is necessary to say that it is not possible, once again, to oppose the specific persons we have on the agenda, because they are not finally guilty of anything, but that Slovenia does not need so many judges. Why the Italians pay 11 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, the Austrians 18 and the Germans 23 and the Slovenians 50. Why, say, do German citizens give 22 euros a year to a citizen for the judicial system? Why do Slovenian citizens pay €89 for the functioning of the judicial system this year? With the balance, or with the budget to be dealt with, 82 euros. And why is the EU average of 42 euros? So, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to carry out a reform of the judicial system. It's time to imagine why one pillar of the house, if we take that the judiciary is a pillar of the state, which it is and should be, after 22 years of destruction. Why does the state also sit down because it doesn't have this pillar? And this pillar doesn't work. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no votes of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not because of the opposition of the candidates, but because of the fact that we warn you that a lot of things need to be changed in the judicial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u265	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the Group of Members. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of Natalia Horvat Pasar to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposal for election to the judicial office of the District Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election of Novice Tadic to the judicial office of the District Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of Novice Tadic to the judicial office of the District Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the Group's position. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u266	Thank you very much. There will also be no vote by the Slovenian Democratic Party. What's the reason? The reason is simply that the National Assembly is doing wrong. It's all guilt. May I remind you that the Council of the FIHO Foundation has been elected by this National Assembly, and earlier by the Mandate-Electorial Commissions, Mr Juhart and Mr Pegan. These are two gentlemen legally appointed by the National Assembly to the FIHO Council. What happened then? A letter came to the Commission's mandate, a letter from the Commission's anti-corruption officer, Mr Kečanovic. So not a letter from the chairman of the commission or a letter of leadership, but a letter from the official on the committee of Mr Kečanovic. What did this letter say? It was said that the Mandate-Volution Commission had abandoned its duty to act and that the vote of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission had signs of corruption. All those who were on this committee at the time — I was not alone — were accused of corruption. I believe a neighbor has ever asked you if an envelope is looking at you from a pocket or something or maybe you're doing some sort of background or something. Because corruption means simple people to put an envelope in your pocket. But look what happened next. On the Commission's terms of reference, I have already participated as a member, we have pointed out that it is not permissible for an official of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption to charge members of the National Assembly, members of the Commission's Mandate-Voluntary Committee on Corruption, because they voted as they voted, and that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees each Member the right to vote in accordance with his conscience, and that Mr Kečanovic's letter is completely without any legal basis, and that there is no legal basis. He stated in the letter that the said gentlemen are responsible for the persons in the organisations where they work. As responsible persons, however, we should not run. Even if that were true, this was not the case, it is not possible for any official of this country to order the Assembly and Members to vote. There's no way. The Constitution guarantees this. We have also drawn attention to the Commission's President-in-Office for the Prevention of Corruption to this letter from Mr Kečanovic and have invited him to make a statement. As far as I can recall, Mr Klemenčič, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, was absent and Mr Praprotnik has arrived, a real deputy. This has distanced itself with words, you can see this in a magnetogram, if this is not the opinion of the Commission to prevent corruption, but this is the opinion of a member of the Commission. Of course he stepped back. The two gentlemen mentioned, Juhart and Pegan, also took part in the action. By the way, I know at least one of them, and there's no mistake, and I know him personally, and I know that the vows fit the left-hand political option. And not to defend it, I have no reason to defend it, but I want to defend the truth. These two gentlemen both submitted a certificate from the administrative unit stating that they were not responsible. Yet, it happened — what? The Commission approved the new procedure. This new procedure is closed today and two new candidates are ahead of us. I believe or believe in the Group of Members that it has been committed by the former lawfully elected candidates – Mr Juhart and Mr Pegan – to blame. And we will not participate in injustices. Therefore, you cannot expect our votes to this decision. And there's something else you need to say. As an autonomous branch of government, the National Assembly kneeled as a chicken in front of a rooster before the Commission to prevent corruption. The ones you're from the countryside at home, you know. Instead of getting the National Assembly on its feet and saying: no, we will not support illegality. We're sorry this has all come to pass, and we won't have our votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u267	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. The debate of Members is still under way. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u268	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I think it's right that I'm here today to discuss before this national assembly. There should be no vote on this point today if Members and Members of the previous meeting, both by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and by the National Assembly, do not unduly resolve Mr Juhart and Mr Pegan. All procedures at the Mandate-Election Commission last year have been properly carried out, but already the opposition, the current coalition has often spoken of the illegal, unconstitutional and similar appointments in this assembly. Let me also remind you of the dismissal of the members of the RTV Supervisory Board, and then the judicial proceedings have shown that the Mandate-Election Commission and the National Assembly have done nothing illegal or unconstitutional. When you voted in the previous session of the discharge of Mr Juhart and Mr Pegan, I think you both deserve an apology from the National Assembly, because you have done nothing illegal, but someone has decided that they should be dissolved and that you should go into a new tendering procedure. For you all knew very well that these two candidates could not run again because this would already be their third term, which is illegal under the law. I am sorry that this has happened, and I think we can thank Mr Peggan and Mr Juhart in this way for their work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u269	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u270	Pretty short, where I had to stop for time. I still believe that the National Assembly is one that is an autonomous branch of government, and it is legislative. And the National Assembly could and should put itself on the sidelines of people or institutions who violate legislation in this country. And the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in this case absolutely is. And instead of raising the reputation of its own institution, the National Assembly would raise the reputation of Members, it calmly says, yes, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is right. I don't think the National Assembly should do this in any way. I should not have already voted in favour of the discharge of these two gentlemen. It is no wonder, therefore, that we have one such opinion in public about Members that Members are simply some thugs who "fill" their pockets, this applies to all Members who look at their own benefits, who do nothing to give them the minimum. We also have a proposal for a minimum here in the National Assembly. See, in this way, we can probably all agree that the function of a Member will sooner or later send an unwanted matter. And sooner or later, we will have problems with all the political parties getting to the right candidates, because after all, we may have some other bums or those who are unemployed on the candidate lists. Because someone with some normal regular income is not going to want to run anymore. But Members should be those who say very clearly and loudly: institutions that unjustifiably accuse us of some corruption, which has happened in this case, should give a clear signal no and should be stopped. But the National Assembly didn't stop them in that case. The National Assembly allowed an official to declare a group of Members corrupt, to act in a corrupt manner. And we confirm that. And the Members will confirm that. Do we just spit in our own pocket if you want? That's the way, I'll say, self-healing. This is the way in which Members of Parliament contribute to such an opinion as they do in the public on ours. Because the end of the decision earlier and today's decision will essentially confirm what is said in that opinion. He'll confirm that he acted corruptly. That's exactly what this opinion says. I don't think the National Assembly or the Council of Directors acted corruptly in any way. Neither these two bodies, i.e. the Commission and the National Assembly, are the ones to examine what is involved in the documents submitted by someone in the selection process. We have the professional services of the National Assembly to do so, and each individual is responsible. If someone submits the wrong documents, it is known what time it is that he has submitted the forged documents, which is a criminal offence. None of this happened in this case. None of that. Even the documents exist, the documents. have confirmed to the administrative units that they were not officials of organisations where they were otherwise at work. No, no, no. By voting, we obviously give it to the Commission to prevent corruption, not to the Commission, but to an official who declared us that, at the time, I had not yet acted corruptly. It is not right to succumb to such insinuations that the Commission is doing to prevent corruption. At the same time, the Anti-Corruption Commission, as you know, has been checking six airline tickets for about six months and has yet to find anything. And there's nothing to look at, six bills to look at, the price list needs to be taken out and everything's clear. This is the political work of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u271	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. Procedural Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u272	I protest that Member Gorenak has defiantly spoken about people who are not guilty themselves. He was talking about bums that they can't be here. Why not, ladies and gentlemen? Who can dare to etablish here in the temple of democracy and expel someone? It's an hate speech, which is why we have the order we have. What does five cards have to do with what we're doing here? I'm also protesting that I've made my decision, and I'm going to make my own decision. Not like the commission said, not like Vinko Gorenak said or anyone said. And that's my right, and that's what I'm gonna do. I'm protesting again. There was no five-card talk at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-24-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u273	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, by which Peter Zajc and Aleksandra Rijavec Škern are appointed as members. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia, by which Dr. Janez Balkovec is appointed as a member. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternates of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Krapan Commission of Inquiry. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that investigative commission. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivan Vogrin. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the Maribor District Court, Investigation Section, number I-KPR-48063/2012-281 of 26. 9. on the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the Mag. Ivan Vogrin, because of the suspicion of a criminal offence committed by a businessman under Article 228(1) of the Penal Code relating to Article 54 of the Penal Code, does not grant immunity to a member of the Magi. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the District Court in Maribor for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Milk Škobernet. The District Court of Maribor forwarded the notice to the National Assembly for its consideration. The notice was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly, so we are moving on to a decision-making process. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act concerning the request of the Regional Court of Maribor number II K 32088/2011 of 24. 9. on the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Celje Milka Škobernet for the suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 289, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for the purpose of committing a criminal offence and allowing the conduct of criminal proceedings to be carried out. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for today and goodbye tomorrow.
