ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the continuation of the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Katarina Hočevar by 3 p.m., Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Alenka Jeraja, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Richard Braniselj by 2 p.m. or 2 p.m. Mr Zvone Černač, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Dragutin Mate. I say hello to everyone else. We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Banking Act by emergency procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. We're continuing our session. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The National Assembly is today discussing a proposal for a amendment to the Banking Act, which will establish a legal framework to share the burden of bank resolution in difficulties between the country on the one hand and the bank creditors on the other. This also allowed the procedure for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system to continue. In opening, I should like to point out that the text of the novel has emerged in close cooperation with key stakeholders in the area of the subject, in particular with the Bank of Slovenia. The material has been sent to the European Central Bank for its opinion and has been coordinated with the European Commission or, more specifically, with the representatives of the Directorate-General for Competition. Since the start of the financial crisis, the European Commission has adopted 7 recommendations on the application of State aid rules to financial institutions. These communications provide detailed guidance on the compatibility criteria for State aid to the financial sector with the internal market in accordance with Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Although the principle of burden-sharing has already been reflected in previous communications, the Commission's key communication, applicable from 1 August 2013 onwards, is a key one. In this Communication, the European Commission provides, as an important criterion for the admissibility of State aid and the admissibility of the use of public funds in solving the problems of the bank, an appropriate burden sharing with regard to ensuring the capital adequacy of the bank between the State and shareholders and creditors on the other hand. State aid shall not be granted until the equity, hybrid capital and subordinated debt instruments have fully contributed to offset potential losses. The European Commission has made it clear to the Republic of Slovenia that the new State aid rules also apply to the implementation of measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Since there is currently no legal possibility in Slovenia that holders of hybrid or subordinated instruments by forcible termination or conversion to bank shares contribute to the resolution of banks, the Banking Act is being amended and supplemented to this end. Some key points about the text itself. The law introduces a new exceptional measure that can be used by Banka Slovenije to provide the necessary capital to achieve the capital adequacy or solvency of the bank. The measure relates to the termination or conversion of qualified liabilities in shares of a bank that can be used where there is an increased risk in relation to the bank and it is unlikely that Banka Slovenije will achieve short- and long-term capital adequacy or the appropriate liquidity position of the bank with other measures. In addition, it should be stressed that the use of an exceptional measure is in the public interest in order to prevent the stability of the financial system from being compromised. In accordance with the proposal of the law, the liabilities to the shareholders of the bank on the basis of the principal capital paid, further liabilities to the holders of the financial instruments included in the bank’s underlying or additional capital, as well as the liabilities of the bank to the creditors that would have been repaid if the bank had ceased to pay the normal claims to the bank. The order of termination or conversion of qualified liabilities of the bank is also important, since it takes into account the order of payment of these liabilities in the event of bankruptcy in the bank, and in such a way that the loss due to the bank’s capital needs is borne entirely by the shareholders, only then can it be attributed to the creditors of the qualifying liabilities of the bank to cover the loss by termination or conversion. The amount of termination or conversion shall be determined to the extent necessary for the Bank to provide the necessary capital on the basis of this measure and taking into account the conditions and possibilities for the implementation of other measures. The proposal was also very important to the question of the retroactive validity of the law, and we believe that the proposed law does not violate the prohibition of retroactiveity because it carried out a proportionality test. In view of all the above, I propose that the National Assembly should support the proposal for the amendment to the Banking Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much for your explanation, Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the President, Mr. Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, and a very nice greeting to all of you. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at the 21st meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Ten. 2013 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government by means of a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly at its 67th regular meeting on 11 January 2013 Ten. 2013 also certified. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on 23. 10. The four coalition groups tabled amendments to Articles 2, 6, 7, 14, 15, 18, 20, 23, 28, 30 and 32, 33 and 38 of the legislative proposal. An amendment to Article 3 of the SDS Group was also tabled, which was then amended and considered as such during the duration of the Committee and was not finally adopted. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee also adopted the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Crafts, Tourism and Finance Council of 18. Ten. 2013, opinion of the European Central Bank on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Banking Act of 18. Ten. 2013 and a letter to the National Assembly with an opinion on the subordinated bonds of the Bank of Juliet Patajac Kosmac and Mr Gianni Kosmac of 18. Ten. 2013, comments of the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia of 22. Ten. 2013 and letter from the Slovenian Insurance Association dated 23. Ten. 2013 The meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service and the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia and representatives of the Bank of Slovenia. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance stressed that the proposal constitutes the basis for establishing a legal framework for burden-sharing in the event of bank resolution in difficulties between the country on the one hand and certain categories of bank creditors on the other, allowing the resolution of the Slovenian banking system to continue. The text was created in close cooperation between the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank, which supports the bill, and is in line with the European Commission, specifically the Directorate-General for Competition, which has issued more guidelines for resolution of the banking area since the start of the financial crisis. It takes into account that Slovenia already has two banks, NLB and KBM in the state aid procedure, and having already taken a principled government decision to implement such measures in the Bank, it is clear that the new State aid rules for banks will apply in all three cases. To this end, Slovenia must open the legal possibility of contributing hybrid or subordinate bank resolution instruments, which is also the key purpose of the legal proposal under consideration. At the time of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of the comments made with the amendments tabled by the four coalition groups were duly taken into account. After a lengthy discussion, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified the four coalition groups at Articles 2, 6, 7, 14, 15, 18, 20, 23, 28, 30, 32, 33 and 38 tabled and adopted them, and the amendment to Article 3 of the SDS Group was not adopted by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In view of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended bill is prepared and we propose that it be confirmed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Mr Andrej Shircelj on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! We have been monitoring the problems of the banking system for a very long time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we are also proposing different solutions in this regard. One of the key solutions to the resolution of the Slovenian banking system is, for the first time, the finding of the actual financial situation and, secondly, the finding of responsibility for the situation. Despite these two issues, we cannot, even with this amendment to the Banking Act, which in fact means sharing the burden between the owners of subordinate financial instruments and the state. In other words, this law is intended to introduce a special bankruptcy procedure for banks in the Banking Act. Indeed, all these measures are very similar to those which constitute bankruptcy. As the Secretary of State said, this law was made with the cooperation of the European Commission, with the cooperation of the European Central Bank, which gave an opinion. In short, the question here is whether the law is written in Brussels or written in Ljubljana. Of course, it is a fundamental question that we do not really know what the situation in banking is in this law. The 2014 budget reserves 1.2 billion to recapitalise all Slovenian banks. In doing so, we rightly wonder whether this is speculation: whether this is speculation based on the actual situation in the banking system and whether this is actually a speculation by the government of Alenka Bratušek, we will find out when there will be clear stress tests and when there will be a clear assessment of the assets of Slovenian banks. In short, we do not have the correct information and we do not have it, or we have some information, which is probably unrealistic by the Bank of Slovenia about how bad claims actually are and how much weakness will be needed for banks to have a balanced balance sheet or real or real balance sheet. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will attach the decision on this law to an extremely important amendment that we have already tabled on the Committee on Finance, namely the amendment on banking secrecy itself. In fact, banking secrecy, as defined in the current law and under the current law, effectively makes it impossible for supervisory institutions, as well as those institutions that should already know in advance what the situation in the banking system is, to actually answer the question of who is responsible for such a situation in the banking system and who, after all, will be responsible for the fact that taxpayers will pay their money over taxes for errors in the banking system, which may have occurred unintentionally, but can also be intended on the basis of customeristic, friendly, political connections. We are looking here for the whole period, regardless of the period in which the government was established. Responsibility of who? Here is the most responsible institution that is constantly watching over business banks, this is Banka Slovenije, second place are supervisory saints and third place are administrations. It is not always said that it is in this order, but given that this law introduces so-called bankruptcy legislation, whereby certain state banks will go, it is essential to adopt an amendment that otherwise defines bank secrecy, which allows all business banks and others to be held accountable for the situation in the banking system that taxpayers will pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircel. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u8	Respected and respected! This law was created in Slovenia and is in full harmony with European policy in this area. It deals with the central issue; the question of how far we are willing to go in socialisation, i.e. the division of losses in the Slovenian banking system. There's a line of responsibility. I do not agree with the predecessor that the Bank of Slovenia is the most responsible for the situation, and then the supervisory councils and administrations of banks. Bank administrations are the first responsible, supervisory councils that have not performed the role of proper supervision, secondly and only then can we seek responsibility from the regulator and supervisor of the banking system that responsibility exists there, and so are we. But the stories about the search for culprits and the urgent moves we have to make to stabilise the banking system in a way that will not be fully burdened by taxpayers are two sides of this story. We propose that, by means of virtual measures designed to ensure the interruption of bank secrecy, we do not mix the measures that must be taken urgently with a view to preventing the burden of the budget and the consequent burden of taxpayers from passing a greater part of the burden than is absolutely necessary. It is interesting to see the hypocrisy of some who, a month ago, announced an intervention against the finance minister because in the controlled liquidation of two smaller business banks, he provided for the protection and insurance of deposits, including those above EUR 100,000. Today, however, pain is felt because we have not provided the same insurance to those who are holders of subordinated, hybrid and other financial instruments of these banks. We therefore reiterate that the key question here is how far we are willing to go in taking on the common burden of bank losses. Social Democrats will support this law because we believe that a clear limit should be placed on where taxpayers and taxpayers can assume the burden of losses in banks. This will be done by all responsible policies. Especially since the European Commission has also clearly set out in its Communication on the application of State aid rules to support measures in favour of banks the order of qualified claims, the order of responsibility for losses. The Banking Act, as before us today, introduces a mechanism to provide the bank's capital through private funds, namely the funds of the bank's shareholders and certain categories of bank creditors, which are qualified categories of creditors, thereby reducing requirements for the use of public funds. In this way, the Government wishes to transfer part of the burden of bank rehabilitation to those individuals who have purchased hybrid and subordinated instruments, and of these, they can also have higher returns due to higher risk levels. The law provides that such instruments will either be transformed into the bank's best quality capital, i.e. ordinary shares of the bank, or thus improve the bank's capital adequacy. The novelty shall specify which qualified liabilities may be used for termination or conversion where there is an increased risk in relation to the bank and the Bank of Slovenia shall issue an emergency decision against the bank. Let us point out that the amendment of the Banking Act fully follows the logic of insolvency law in the event of bankruptcy in banks and introduces an identical order of payment with the rule that holders of a hybrid or other subordinate instrument cannot be in a worse position if the bank receives public support measures. Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Mr Marko Pavlisič has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The Slovenian banking system is stable and trustworthy. While there is no secret that our banks have been facing some problems in recent years, there is no exception in this regard on a European or global scale. Almost all European countries had to approach the resolution of the banking system. The difference between us and others is only in the speed and effectiveness of the approach to recovery. Unlike many countries that have taken action quickly and decisively, which has led to a faster recovery of the entire economy, we are still on the ground. The best example of rapid and decisive action is the United States of America, where the problem was addressed immediately, five years ago. Soon thereafter, it was clear that taxpayers would come out of this story as winners. The state got back more than it invested in saving the bank hole. In Slovenia too, because of the slowness of action, unfortunately, we can no longer expect this. The government, which had to face the crisis first in 2009, has instead focused its efforts to rehabilitate the banking system on a Kenyan developmental transformation, which we are still waiting for five years later. The former government, despite all obstacles, has drawn up the concept of rescue and has initiated the legal changes necessary for recovery, and it is up to the current government to adopt, adopt and implement these measures as soon as possible. The main amendment of the Banking Act and the amendment around which the most dust was raised is undoubtedly a conversion of subordinated bonds into the capital of the bank, under certain conditions and by decision of the Bank of Slovenia. subordinated bonds are securities which are generally intended for well-instructed investors because they are securities that are more risky than ordinary bonds or deposits. However, due to the promised higher returns, such an investment is also decided by a number of uneducated investors. Whether or not he was properly aware of the risk depends on the case. It is correct to inform investors of their rights and, if there have been and there are still cases of misleading uneducated investors, such cases must be resolved individually through the court. At the same time, we must be aware that it is virtually impossible for all investors in subordinate bonds to be misled or deceived. Many bought such securities with the knowledge of what kind of financial instrument they invested in or bought subordinated bonds on the secondary market when, in the face of difficulties in banks around the world, in particular foreign owners, they had already started selling them under price. In addition to the nominal return promised, such investors relied on additional profits due to a price lower than the nominal one. The question that comes to me in this place is whether it would be appropriate for the loss of these risk-aware investors to be borne by those who can only dream of such returns because the only interest they know is the interest on the negative situation in the current account, with which they somehow link the month to the month. In the Civil Gazette, we always advocate a liberal view of the individual's right to freedom of decision, but at the same time we stress that a person must also take responsibility for the decision taken and face the possible consequences of his own decision, whether they are really favourable or unfavourable to him. Some, more than for political reasons, raise questions about the retroactivity of the law. I agree that the retroactivity of legislation is something we must take with great care. It is therefore specified in the draft law on the basis of which retroactivity is possible and why such a measure can be implemented in the new Banking Act that we are adopting today. By adopting these legislative changes, we give law enforcement authorities and courts more time to investigate irregularities that have taken place within banks. The Law thus provides for a four-fold general limitation period for members of bank management and supervision bodies. With this change, we allow law enforcement authorities and courts to bring before the time limit the rights of those who, in some cases, have caused so much financial destruction by their irresponsible and, in some cases, illegal conduct. After five years of wandering in a dark tunnel of developmental transformation, hunting in circles of political overplay and dealing with the impotence of Banka Slovenije, we are finally just before in Slovenia we take root in the rehabilitation of the banking system. The government and Banka Slovenije have offered us a tool that they believe will cut across the cycle of political exchange and begin the practice of decisive measures that will in the years following enable us to stabilise the banking system, release the credit crunch, start the economy and end the tunnel exit from the crisis for a better future for all. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Slovenian People's Party, Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u12	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Vice-President, Secretary of State! On the table we have a novel on the Banking Act, and we can safely say that this law is on the table for the same reason — that the devil has taken the joke and that someone else has taken matters into their own hands instead of us. It is more than obvious that this proposal summarises the latest European Commission guidelines for the rehabilitation or resolution of banking systems originating this August. It is not yet a regulation nor a directive to be adopted by the legislative systems of the Member States, so we can say that Europe has merely pointed the way in which we will solve these problems in the future. The former Governor of Banka Slovenije, a recognised banking expert, Mr Arhar, does not understand why the adoption of this banking legislation is so hasty. Even in the Slovenian People's Party, we have had a lot of doubts about why we first stuttered in Slovenia since 2009, when, on the proposals of some, we should start with the introduction of a bad bank and start with the real and real rehabilitation of the banking system. Last year, those who today are the most enthusiastic advocates of this solution had a hundred reasons to oppose the introduction of a bad bank. After lengthy discussions and coordinated proposals, they have made every effort that the Constitutional Court has also dealt with this law. In this year's year, it's just half a year on the ground again, and in the end, after the Commission has made it clear that they don't believe us anymore, they've sent their people to review our banks, and now we're taking a solution on the nose again. It is totally unacceptable for us that, at the time of the review of Slovenian banks, when Slovenians and Slovenians are not worthy of knowing the methodology by which this review is being carried out when we are just ahead of this, it is said that one month ago this big issue is being predicted that we will finally open up and get this clearly quantified problem, how much of this flaw in Slovenian banks, we are now adopting this amendment to the Banking Act as a matter of urgency. These subordinated bonds are expected to be around €270 million in these three state banks we are talking about. We're talking because we don't know the number, from 3 to 5% of the volume problem, I hypothetically calculated this percentage by the known numbers. And I don't know what the real need is today, and so much of a problem, that in the fact that we don't know this problem, that we haven't yet come up with, in what way we're going to solve the whole problem, today we're putting those who have simply bought those papers in the past into such an impossible position. That there would be no serious question, even on whose suggestion they were bought. As early as April this year, the current Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Marko Kranjec, spoke to insurance companies and pension companies that have the money of Slovenian taxpayers in their hands to ensure their age, that these are stable, secure papers, and now we are deciding overnight when someone has just directed which direction solutions should go. In the Slovenian People's Party we would certainly like a comprehensive solution to the banking system, a proper, fair burden-sharing, where the owners of the subordinate debt would also accept part of the burden. We are certainly taking solutions overnight again. On this issue, Mr Arhar said that this is a question of the value of trust that cannot be bought, and you must earn it. The Slovenian banking system won't get it that way. We, respected colleagues and colleagues, will not gain it if we carry the burden on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers in such a way that we do not find out who the key ones are in this situation. That's why we're going to support the amendment that's going this way. This solution would, however, be essential in the Slovenian People's Party, and we would be happy to support it if we had the whole concept of solving the banking system on the table, but not that we are partially solving the problems again. We will decide after the debate that will take place in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Maria Plevčak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the DeSUS Group, we support the updated proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act by means of an emergency procedure adopted by the parent working body. In the Group of Members, we believe that the adoption of this proposal is essential to restore the relatively normal functioning of the banking system. Reducing active credit banking policy is still the cause of the critical economic situation in our country. The proposed legal solutions make it possible to implement measures to improve the stability of banks on the basis of State aid rules. These have been in force since August this year and are also a prerequisite for the European Commission to approve measures to strengthen the stability of banks. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that those rules contain provisions on the distribution of settlement or burden, i.e. losses between shareholders and subordinate creditors. It begins with equity, covers losses by contributions from hybrid and subordinated debt instruments in the form of termination or conversion of qualified liabilities of the bank into shares as an exceptional measure that the Bank of Slovenia may grant to the bank. It is this measure that has come across conflicting opinions, in particular in the Association of Small Shareholders and the Association of Banks of Slovenia. Similarly, in some other interested associations, which consider that the Government has confirmed the proposal for a new banking law despite warnings of the irreparable consequences of such a solution, whereby the State wishes to retroactively encroach on the rights of hybrid and subordinated bond holders in order to remedy the situation in banks. We have received such a bill stating that it is in conformity with all the competent authorities. In short, in our Group we believe that the so-called mechanism is the inclusion of private creditors, holders of subordinated debt, such as hybrid bonds, which are important for bank resolution. In doing so, the Government wants to encourage shareholders and other creditors to participate as much as possible in the resolution of banks in difficulty. By dividing the burden between shareholders and subordinated debt holders, State aid will be minimised, reduced to the lowest possible extent. However, to resolve conflicts, all the remedies that may be used by the victims to protect their interests are, of course, available. Let us add or recall only that the customer is responsible for the purchase, the decision, and that he has considered the options of advantages and disadvantages before him. Even possible consequences that the seller should also be aware of if he did not want to anticipate or ask about them. But let the flowers of the financial market prove to be, and find the culprit and show him, but not continue to protect him. Can we even do that? Will we protect the owners, speculators? We are convinced that the complementary proposal adopted on the labour market is undoubtedly an effort to maintain and protect the national banking system, in particular deposits at the level of credibility, stability, transparency and respect for European and national banking or wider financial ethical principles. We, honourable Members, are also responsible for our actions, our decisions. Do we even know them? As we have already said in the introduction in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the complementary proposal of the Banking Act adopted on the parent committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering amendments to the Banking Act, which represent one of the most important regulations that will have a strong impact on current bank owners, holders of subordinate financial instruments and, last but not least, all citizens, as many current and future generations will be paid for the rehabilitation of the banking system. The new Banking Act provides a legal basis for the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, the presented concept of the resolution of the banking system provides for the distribution of the burden of the rehabilitation of banks between the state, owners of banks and holders of subordinate financial instruments. This is, however, the way banks are being rehabilitated by the European Commission, but with two important additions. Firstly, this is how the European Commission recommends the rehabilitation of banks and the amendments to the law before us are introduced for all banks, regardless of ownership. We wonder why this specialty is in Slovenia, not so that smaller private banks will be freed with state money. Another time. The deadline for the inclusion of subordinated financial instruments holders is not required and laid down immediately, which provides these holders with sufficient space and opportunities to seek a better solution; but the law before us introduces it immediately and without delay, thus placing in an unfavourable position, for example, the owners of bank bonds that bought bonds under the assumption in good faith, that it was a safe investment, but of course they had no responsibility in the poor management of banks. The amendments to the Banking Act that are ahead of us bring two important things to the resolution of the banking system. They exclude the Cyprus model, where bank resolution burdens would also be borne by savers, and the limitation deadlines for offences in the banking sector are extended. That's definitely two positive things. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we still have some concerns about shortcomings and unusual conceptual solutions that we cannot agree on. In particular, we believe that the owners of subordinated financial instruments should not bear the burden of bank recovery to a greater extent than the owners of deposits above the value of EUR 100,000, i.e. the amount to which they bear the guarantee to pay the deposit of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, not one or the other did not have the right to manage and decide on banks. We also advocate that greater responsibility for the collapse of the banking system should be borne by those who have caused it. These are members of the boards and supervisory boards. All of these are responsible for their bad decisions with their property. Their responsibilities are already in place under the current rules, specifically Articles 60 and 66 of the Banking Act, but apparently these two articles are not being implemented in practice, as members of the boards and supervisory boards continue to pay high salaries and rewards despite the poor functioning of banks. In Novi Slovenija we oppose the fact that all banks, i.e. large, systemic and even smaller ones, are being rehabilitated with State aid, irrespective of public interest, both systemic and smaller. Our opinion is also supported by the European Central Bank, which says in its opinion on amendments to the law under point 3.2: "If the resolution authority finds that public interest is not threatened, the institution should stop following the normal insolvency procedures applicable to such institutions under national law." These sentences and these provisions we understand that the State must send a small and non-systemic bank to bankruptcy rather than rescue it with public money. Finally, we need to say something about banking secrecy. For her, all too often there are irregulars hiding behind her, not to say the unlawful decision of the members of the boards and the supervisory boards. Even so far as the banking secrecy commitment went so far that even the institutions that carried out the banking audit did not report suspected criminal offences to the law enforcement authorities found at the time of the audits. Because of all the above, this law and this amendment to the Banking Act do not have the support of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. There is also the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u18	Your Honor! Amendments and additions to the Banking Act are no surprise. The other way around. The decision was in the air. National decision makers in the euro countries affected by the crisis have long looked at the European Commission and the European Central Bank. So the crisis isn't yesterday. Let me remind you, it's been six years since the U.S. monetary authorities started a bankruptcy procedure at Lehman Brothers. Events lined up across the meadow with a film rush. Five hundred banks have fallen to this day. During this time, monetary strategy has been forged in Europe and the banking crisis has, in the meantime, turned into a general debt crisis and, fatefully, the capital pool has been linked by banks and the budget. Through budgetary interventions, the state has become the so-called owner of the extreme force. During this period, over the three governments, we have lost thousands of jobs, 10,000 jobs, thousands of businesses, 10 percent or more of the wages in public administration have been reduced, we are sliding on the competitiveness scale, the number of taxpayers is falling, and the number of recipients of social assistance is rising accordingly. The devastating delay with very severe consequences, I hope to say, and I immediately add: we are guilty of problems and problems in the long run. The point is, if you're guilty, it's the others, it's pathological. In Positive Slovenia we believe that the Government and Banka Slovenije have understood the basic message of banking reform. After all, it is already indicated in the case of Factor Bank and Probank. The Commission communication on the application of State aid rules to support measures in favour of the Bank in the context of the financial crisis is unequivocal. An important criterion for the admissibility of State aid and the use of public funds in the resolution of problems provides for an appropriate burden sharing in the provision of bank capital between the State and shareholders and the creditors of the bank on the other hand. In other words, more responsibility should also be taken by the owners of banks and holders of subordinated securities, both hybrids and bonds, while already stinging tax money should be diverted within a reasonable time and used where it belongs, i.e. between moral hardships and needs and not in the game of moral gambling. The budget, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not an ATM. Therefore, an exceptional measure of termination or conversion of qualified liabilities of a bank that can only be made on the basis of an estimate of the value of the assets. And two other important restrictions. None of the creditors of the qualifying liabilities shall be in a worse position due to the measure than would have been the case if bankruptcy had occurred in the bank. Another time. The Bank of Slovenia may exempt individual groups of qualified liabilities from the measure if the measure jeopardises the stability of the financial system. Legal issues and respect for the principles of the protection of the right of the owner, the prohibition of return and the principle of confidence in the law will not be discussed this time, they are important and are within the competence of the institutions – to do their job – and they can also be a serious problem from a legal point of view. Content for the Group of Positive Slovenia is not a problem. Finally, on the special responsibility of this congregation. A year ago, we, caught at the height of the crisis, adopted the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which sets out measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian banking system. Without the novelty on our benches today, the system law is difficult or even impossible to implement. Then where will our responsibility be? The Group of Members will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles or to the debate on the amendment tabled. We have one amendment tabled, namely the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the SDS Group. I am opening a debate and an opportunity to apply for a debate. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. Two panellists have been reported in this round. The first one is Mrs. Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're discussing bank secrecy. Strict banking secrecy is incorporated into the Banking Act and the Banking Act in order to ensure the stability of the banking system, which is one aspect of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, Article 2 of the Constitution. Article 228 of the Banking Act only allows State authorities to access data from which individual banks cannot be identified, so it is less possible to request data from individual banks. Such an article, which would require the bank receiving State aid to disclose bank secrecy, would be in direct violation of Article 228 of the Banking Act. It would be inconsistent with the constitutional provision of Article 152, which provides the Bank of Slovenia with independence and independence in the management of monetary policy, and the supervision of banks does not fall within the competence of the National Assembly because it falls within the jurisdiction of the Bank of Slovenia. It could also be an intervention in the protection of personal data, and this concerns Article 38 of the Constitution, taking into account the role of committees or natural persons. The opposition has repeatedly warned us or stressed that we have been a ruling coalition — or the Government has twice had the opportunity to expose the irregularities in controlling the liquidation of Probank and the Bank’s Factor, which was at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. You have told us that we do not want to accept this decision or amendment because we want to protect the interests of the lobbyists and individuals. I'm sorry, I have nothing to do with this myself, I haven't been in the governing structure, not in one government ever, and never before, so I don't accept this obvious. We cannot take this decision either because it is simply not within the competence of the National Assembly and would be the only country in the world where banking secrecy can be disclosed. All this discussion can be understood by the opposition, as stated by his colleague Jerovšek when he was in the British Parliament, and he said that the role of the opposition is to obstruct the ruling coalition in adopting measures or laws or to impose them as much as possible. This way we can think of this whole debate as professional, but absolutely populist. Both the economic and banking system, known risk. What is for the competitiveness economy is trust for banks. In total, both are capital adequacy. In parallel and related steps are being taken to prepare for the implementation of the measures for the capital stability of banks and the deleveraging of the economy, these changes relating to insolvency. Of course I'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's not possible to have a replica right now. Mrs Pavličeva was the first debater. It's mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u22	Your Honor! I will personally support this amendment to Article 2. There's a kind of reason for that. As a Member, I feel relatively repulsive when I have to take decisions in this House on the recapitalisation of banks. This has been quite something in the past, and none of us should know or be entitled to the data, why we must trust the banking authorities without any responsibility. I think we need to end this one day. I agree with all those who, in the first place, are responsible for the situation in the banking system, do not place owners, nor do holders of subordinates and holders of ordinary bonds or deposits, but banks' administrations, supervisory boards of banks within their powers and supervisory institutions of the Bank of Slovenia. So they are responsible to the fullest extent possible for this matter, which is called the rehabilitation of banks in a country that we have been dealing with for several years now, and which will cost us taxpayers billions of euros. I don't want to speculate how much, but this is measured in billions of euros. I wonder, Mr President, how long will it take for us to vote and support bankers as some sheep here, to trust the supervisory institutions that say that this must be done, that it is necessary to do so, and that we will not achieve the essence and simply believe what blinds us, I think for decades. The amendment just wants us to be those in Parliament, and especially the supervisory institutions involved and the parliamentary investigative committee set up to do their job at all. To carry out the identification of political links, clienteleistic links between bankers and politics. Until we identify these links, we will be able to expose them for so long, we will be able to put our trust blindly in those who have moved us around a number of times, and billions of euros into this Slovenian banking system. Until when, gentlemen, do you think our taxpayers have that kind of money? I don't think they have it, and it's high time we poured pure wine here in Parliament. So far, there have been several attempts to ensure that the Parliamentary Commission on Public Finance Control, the Committee on Finance or the Commission of Inquiry, which identifies links between public officials and bankers in order to obtain at least key data for certain findings. We have repeatedly received from all institutions a message that they will not give us this information because they refer to bank secrecy under the Banking Act. And you say it's the right thing to do. Okay, if this is the case, then these institutions should also provide money for the rehabilitation of the banking system or for the bad work they have done so far. Once again, I think that administrations, supervisory councils and Banka Slovenije are the most responsible for the situation in the banking system as it is. But if you ask people on the road, they will show us or you that we, the politicians, are guilty of doing so. I experience this every day, and I feel very bad because I have no data, I cannot have any data, but we are all responsible. I think that responsibility must actually be shared among those who do. If we want to say bob and make not least order, then there is no other way than to say that in cases where the bank is being rehabilitated by taxpayers or is receiving State aid, in cases where this special mechanism or some other form of state aid is involved – by the way, in the controlled liquidation of the Probanks, taxpayers will significantly dispose of or cut off their assets in order to solve the private problems of these two banks. Even in these banks, it would be good to see these credit agreements and why it is. Your Honor, I received today's response from the Minister of Finance or the Government regarding the deposits of the Single Treasury Account at Probank and Factor Bank. We listened to the Finance Committee: "Yes, because these deposits are about the same high in these two banks since 2009." Your Honor, it's not true! These deposits have been very interesting in recent times and are mainly related to the governments where the Social Democratic Party was. Look, it's interesting! 31. 12. In 2008, in these two banks there were deposits of a single treasury account of 80 million 500, just one year later, 31. 12. In 2009, there were 284 million euro deposits of a single treasury account in the bank. So, in one year, the volume of deposits of the single treasury account in the Factor Bank and Probank increased by 200 million when Minister Križanič and his right hand Mr Isajlovič – just don't tell me it was a coincidence! This is said to have increased almost threefold in this period, while in state banks it has increased only twofold. This is said to have increased the number of deposits in these two private banks as a percentage. And look, interestingly, this year, deposits in Factor Bank and Probank have increased by more than EUR 100 million, more than EUR 100 million. I don't believe it, sir. It's a coincidence. I do not believe that anyone else did not know this year what the situation was like in these two banks and helped those who were running because someone could put money in it, that someone had pushed it out, that the bank had not broken down before; and that for a good 100 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, there are clienteleistic, political connections here, we can only imagine them, we cannot get to the data, because, as I can see, even the largest coalition party opposes that we Members also pour pure wine, let alone that the taxpayers who will end up paying for this. As far as taxpayers are concerned, see this Banking Act sets the limits of this order of burden-taking in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union. The owners are the first, other holders or owners of subordinated debt, then forwards, probably bond owners, depositors. Why, Madam Secretary of State, why has the Government decided to set a border for the holders of the subordinate debt? Why he's not there – because there won't be enough to fix the banking system, there's probably going to be more money. Then why are you here? And let's say why will all taxpayers come to the aid of one of the holders of the ordinary bonds of these banks? Because his debt is safe. I ask you: Why should non-socialisation or socialisation of these bondholders, why socialisation of depositors over 100,000 euros, why should all taxpayers, including the weak ones, settle accounts for those who could afford deposits over 100,000 euros? I wonder, because I think there must be some reason why. Here the behaviour of the Slovenian Democratic Party becomes more consistent or you understand the consistency of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the case of the Factor Bank and Probanka. If you are against socialisation – why did you put a border there? Your Honor, I'm sure I'm personally sure this line won't stay there. This border will remain there until we know what kind of hole we have, and then the government will probably come to Parliament with a different law. This is also in line with the guidelines. In this evaluation of qualified holders of subordinated or subordinated debt holders, the Government has also deliberately engaged in retroactive interference in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In short, you have consciously intervened in the rights of some people who have acquired these rights in the past, which is said to be back. And you want to explain or substantiate this intervention in this right with public benefit if the public benefit of the resolution of the banking system is greater than or greater than this retroactive intervention, so retroactive intervention is justified. That is how I understand, although the Legislative and Legal Service warns that this explanation here is too weak or not sufficient to justify interference with acquired rights – for the public benefit. And I'm asking you if anyone has calculated or knows this public benefit. We only have calculated static public benefit. That's what it is right now. We know that in order to evaluate subordinate creditors, it will not be necessary to socialise or bring this to taxpayers. We know that. But we don't know and we haven't measured and you haven't measured and you don't want to measure, because you probably can't, hand to heart, medium and long term consequences of this escape of institutional and other investors from Slovenian banks. Today we can read, it seems to me that in two days there will be an international or Slovenian day of savers, and today we can read about the state of deposits in Slovenian banks: depositors flee from Slovenian banks! We have a reduction in the percentage of these savings and an increase in deposits in foreign banks, including those banks that have their own business in Slovenia. So we already have the effect of mistrust in the Slovenian banking system and, if anything, former Governor Arhar was right when he said that money is a shy bird. When you give her the opportunity to exercise some right overnight – that right, this measure was not known to the investor in these bonds when he bought these bonds – so when you say that you can reach out to this right overnight by law, retroactively, it is a signal — I know what it is that you will not say that I am afraid in this House. This behaviour of investors is perfectly normal. Dear Secretary of State, have you measured this damage? How many negative financial consequences will such an intervention have in return, a retroactive intervention in the confidence of Slovenian banks and consequently in money? I am talking about Slovenian investors in the Slovenian banking system, which people, by the way, trusted very much last year. When we sat at the same time last year and talked about the scope of the applications, etc. Last but not least about the investors in the Slovenian banking system, we were able to find that this is quite something. Therefore, I believe that the damage done to certain insurance companies is likely to be immeasurable. Some of the insurance companies had so much courage, and they answered. Of course, damage has also been done to primary investors, institutional investors such as pension companies and mutual fund managers. They're not going to invest in it anymore. They're going to invest in something else. And for so much more, it's going to take recapitalisation. If there are no domestic private resources, more money will be needed to ensure appropriateness. I don't think you've measured this when you're talking about public benefit, if you don't socialize debt here or socialize these bonds. You didn't calculate that. However, if you have calculated, please tell me what damage you predicted due to the loss of confidence in the Slovenian banking system due to this intervention. Undoubtedly, he'd be deaf and blind if he hadn't noticed. In the end, let me ask you one more question. You all understand and understand that it is necessary to make the border of socialisation of problems and exposure of taxpayers in Slovenian banks. I ask you why there was no similar relationship when the mega-Romanian economic systems went bankrupt or were in an unenviable position. There was no talk at the time of any socialisation, no borders, and then we just calmly let the economic operators go bankrupt, and we could probably solve one. Everyone, Mr. Meh, you too. So are we and you. Everybody. At that time, there was no understanding of specific legal solutions to how to socialise part of the problems caused by the administrations, including the supervisory councils and the supervisory institutions. That's why a worker, like Prevent, and a Primorje worker, can ask himself, if you want, how is it that when he was before the bankruptcy, no one understood him, but now everyone understands the bank and innovates special schemes for the resolution of these. Indeed, it should be acknowledged once that obviously banks are a system above systems of particular importance in this country. I personally believe that it is crucial in this law to disclose and also allow the holders of supervisory roles in this House to look into these piggybacks that have taken place in the banking system. In fact, they have signatories on the one hand and on the other. It would be very interesting to see the value of the most difficult contracts and signatures on the one hand and on the other hand where these people are. And last but not least, what political background may they be, even if the Maribor diocese is among them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. I believe there's still a desire for a debate, so I'm going to open another round because we're not out of time. Please report to those who would like to discuss. This time we have seven reported debaters. First it's mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If I am not deceived by the opposition as well as by the position it recognises that we are actually adopting the Banking Act because of the serious problems of the banking system. This banking system, even if it had not been filled in by budgetary resources in the past, would have de facto or de jure bankrupted; in fact, it is. So, I have a feeling we agree here. Now I think of myself as an observer, and I'm more of a learner, and there's a question. This banking system was managed by people, including loans received by people. Why, in the amendment tabled, why is it such a resistance to tell me who caused the bankruptcy of the banking system and, indirectly, the de facto bankruptcy of the state? Why is this happening? For the institutions, the people who worked and operated on behalf of the institutions, the system, of course, have names and surnames, should probably answer. That's what you all practically say at the principle level. But when we actually come to the fact that we should actually create institutional conditions through the law, in order to be able to point at people, this was not done by institutions, not Bank of Slovenia, Ljubljanska banka, Credit Bank of Maribor, these were the names of institutions, but on behalf of these institutions people were doing it. It is probably time for the public sector, the banking sector, to take personal responsibility for the wrong decisions. Or there are reasons for the bankruptcy of the banking system in the so-called corporation; this is in the harmful connection of the paide capitalists of all governments so far and bankers who have created a monster apparatus with interconnections that has thus swallowed up the banking system and also its own country. The question is, are we on our own? Today we are likely to accept the instructions and recommendations of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, but these two institutions are only looking after two: the stability of the euro and the return of the borrower countries. They don't care about anything else. The welfare of the population, which is the task and concern of Parliament, is not of interest to them. Of course, this must be Parliament's concern. The question is also raised whether it is possible to adopt the Banking Act on the fact that we do not know what the so-called bank hole is, what is the actual situation in banks. She also said that at a recent visit by the President of the Government in Brussels. We adopt one law, but we don't really know what the state of the system of law is. It's about like if I go to the doctor, I say I feel really bad about something, and the doctor finds out what's wrong with me, and he prescribes me a pill. There are also cases like this, you just know how they end up: death. I'm afraid that's how it's gonna end. And one more thing. That's my, kind of general wish. I think that such laws are adopted not by a rapid procedure, not by an urgent procedure, but by a regular procedure and, of course, try to obtain a very broad consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Mrs. Alexandra Osterman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! In my debate, I will define myself to the proposed amendment of the opposition, which, as a Member, I am aware that I am first and foremost a Member of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. So not just these or those, left or right. And as a Member, I am committed to deciding to make and vote on my own conscience and in accordance with the law and not in accordance with the division of power, even though I may wish, quietly, to have any or all of the information on the plan. And it doesn't just work when someone gets caught up in something, wants something, does something. We have a legal state, we have a legal order, and in the rule of law, our country, we still have a legal order, and we have bodies that are persecuting criminal acts. But there is also the assumption that the guilt must be proven first. Therefore, your amendment as a conscious Member and a responsible citizen, I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much. As we amend the Banking Act today, I wonder, on the basis of some recent discussions, whether this coalition actually wants the solutions and rehabilitation of our banks or, step by step, it is only under the pressure of international institutions. I think that the branches of these discussions are that what they were doing at Factor Bank and Probank and in many other banks, which they were doing because they were our people – you have confidence – and these people must be protected, forever, with all the secrets and everything. For the first time, I have now heard "conscientious Member" – the Positive Slovenia Group, apparently. Consciousness to Positive Slovenia and to the gods of Positive Slovenia. Consciousness, however, must be expressed in a different way. The gods you have in this party are not Slovenian gods, they do not even work for Slovenian interests, so some reactions do not surprise me. Your colleague, colleague Pavličeva, said earlier about me that I told you the last time she explained to us the opposition's position in the British Parliament as chief of their opposition, eight years as minister in Blair's government. That the main task of the opposition is to obstruct what she really said, I hope that Masha Kociper told you that when she heard that she was obstructing government projects and government intentions and opposed them. This democracy, the oldest democracy in the world, works! Ladies and gentlemen, even if this were the basic reason for our amendment, it is legitimate. In the UK, they do not have as many banking problems as they do with banks, but with bank robberies as we have in Slovenia. When you agree to some other principles, some other values and when our media continue to rape us that our opposition is not agreeable enough. You have a coalition, you have a majority! Do your best to rule, not to deal with Erjavec and Virant every day, once one jumps out, the other, and you deal with it and yourself. Take positive projects, and we will draw attention to what your hidden intentions are. And now, again, we're reminding you of the hidden purposes of how to protect all these thieves in the banks that have robbed this symptom and now you're going to show bank secrecy and I don't know what. This is indeed written down, but it was the source of the evil Bank of Slovenia – I don't know if we can trust it in the future, because there are all the same people besides the governor. [[...]] We need to strengthen the supervisory instruments and the Parliament and the supervisory and investigative commissions must also get to those who approved these loans. Now we're gonna put the new money in, and we're not gonna know how they're gonna spend it again. Yes, in all possible ways, defend yourself to really start to repair this banking system. Well, not just here! Mrs Musarjevo, the Constitutional Court has stopped now because it was intended to protect one category of people, and whether or not something will happen there are personal data, but I don't know what it is. [[...]] But I am not against the protection of these fundamental human rights; only for me are these far greater abuses that have taken place in banks; here are significantly more attacks on fundamental human rights when people became poor, defrauded, barefoot literally – you protect them. I am pleased, but I am pleased that this opposition has been raised by Mrs Pavlič, who is directly connected through family ties in the cabinet of President Pavlič. I see now that this is the position of the President of the Government, how all these people must be protected, must be protected until their last breath. To your last breath! I know that for your clients, they have terrible credit for your option to pay for the campaign because you can pay for it with stolen money, it's not worth it, you can prove it, and you give a lot of money and you have to protect it. This must be protected in all possible ways; but you do not have the right to such protection and protection. It considers what this law provides for under those financial institutions in Europe that provide money, otherwise under difficult conditions for us, but it is also necessary to change this conversion of these hybrid instruments and subordinate instruments into the capital of the bank. This is where the banks fucked, if we say so, innocent, naive people. These instruments, however, were used by those dedicated ones, the dedicated ones being used principally. I know there are some innocents, and I must say there will be some victims. But I'm not the victim, and my family, when we trusted the family certificates to the Infond Fund, they all fell to the last toll. Everybody! In the meantime, I was reduced to the front of Del because also Shrott became the owner of this Infond, that I am the owner of the Taiwanese shares of Shrot, you understand, and they did not want to publish the dementia. Koshi didn't want to publish the denial! He absolutely didn't publish the dementia! It's a criminal connection, you know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u29	Mr Jerovšek, banking secrecy and connection.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u30	Yeah, yeah. As I say, I am in favour of restricting this 214th article, which thus protects that this country, this Parliament and the authorities in this country will not be able to reach out to who approved these loans, who will spend this money again, which will be billions. The Billion is now an approved cover, a state guarantee for the Factor Bank and Probanka. I'm against it. You made that guarantee because at Factor Bank, all the owners from Forum 21 are. I am against saying that the Forum is 21 countries in a country with special rights. That's what you did with that one. Now you've got a whole lot of stuff in reserve, how to protect bank supervisors. Earlier, someone had said that article 60 or 66 of the Banking Act said that these overseers must also respond materially. And in such holes, no procedure has been initiated to answer anyone. They're not a serious institution, they're the supervisory authorities of the Holy Bank! These are actually personal friendships that have put these people in those positions in the past, where they have shared 50 or 60 thousand prizes in addition to the meetings, and now they share. Look what I've already asked, in August, the owners of the Factor Bank distributed millions of dividends while they knew the bank was already bankrupt! And it was obviously agreed that this would be covered by the state and guaranteed by the state, but Rigelnik and everyone else paid for it, 7 million! That's for 200 cars passat, if we count, because our people don't understand if it's 7 million — yes, he got it well. It's got to be converted into cars, into houses and so on, and then we see what kind of horrors are happening inside of it. When we talk about these subordinate and hybrid bonds, I hope that those owners of Infond, including Zvona, bought these bonds to at least get a little hurt there. If they had to show at least a little solidarity, something would be taken from them. Your defending that this is for the sake of bank secrecy, that the supervisory institutions of Parliament should not be explained where this money went, that is, protecting corruption, crime, I tell you! You clearly say that because you have some, I think not all of you, but your customers, obviously benefit from these people sitting on this money and also funding you. Otherwise, I can't explain it to myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pavlich, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I inform Mr Jerovsk that family members do not belong in the Banking Act. In this context, I think, as you said, the President of the Government does not see his role. In this case, however, your maneuver completely exploded or your bullet didn't hit the right target because you didn't piss me off. On the contrary, I am even proud to be your target, because we know your parliamentary practice; you are extremely eager, opposition, opposition. I have also heard from one of yours that it is a shame because there are not so many debates; and here I am, you can attack again, and I will gladly replicate it to you, but this time the debate was completely – down!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u34	First of all, I think that the debate on this amendment is a smoke bomb that is trying to be dropped in the middle of this House, so as not to talk about the real problem behind this law. I think that everyone and that the Commission of Inquiry of this National Assembly can also obtain the information it needs in order to establish political responsibility under the procedure set out for this purpose. Even in the context of clearing up everything that happened in the banking system. I would like to draw attention to the fact that citizens and citizens clearly expect us to identify this responsibility. The consequences of major mistakes, abuses, corruption and clienteleism in the banking system are too great and too crucial for the entire Slovenian economy and for the entire social system and social destiny, and the prospects of our people, that this is a very clear requirement of our people. However, I propose that we identify this responsibility in a way that will be legally correct and indisputable and which will also not give the investigative commission greater privileges than other investigative authorities in the country. The state prosecutor may also obtain confidential information in the banking system by order of the investigating judge. In the same way, I understand the current regime, and the commission of inquiry to identify abuses in the banking system can also obtain the information required if it truly so wishes. However, I am afraid that this investigative commission, which has been in operation for several months now and is more or less gathering material, has not yet begun a serious investigative work, one that would begin with the hearings of those who have been sitting on the bank's boards, hearings of those who have been sitting on the supervisory boards of these banks. last but not least, the hearing of responsible persons regulators, including former or former governors, if you wish. Political responsibility in the way that we choose from credit maps is limited to a few cases that will be politically attractive for the purposes of political struggle, but not for the real determination of the actual situation and the identification of where the political impact has been used to make poor loans. I therefore suggest that we go here in a completely corrective manner, which will not undermine the foundations of an already weak and unstable banking system by abolishing banking secrecy. However, I think that this law is more important than the other side, the other side of which was discussed in the last part of his discussion by his colleague Vizjak. I feel invited to offer some answers to his question in the debate. First of all, why have they been since 31. 12. 2008 to the year thereafter, substantially increased country deposits in the banking system, including in the two banks mentioned. Even in the two banks mentioned above. But they also significantly increased in the banking system as a whole because the country had to intervene with its funds to maintain bank liquidity; because there was a large outflow of deposits from the country at the turn of 2008. This was also due to foreign banks based in Slovenia. This was therefore a step at the time in order to maintain confidence and maintain the minimum liquidity needed to service their needs. In this debate today there are some serious contradictions and I have not yet fully cleared up the answer to the question what the Slovenian Democratic Party actually wants. They intervened against the Minister of Finance because the government, together with the Bank of Slovenia and with the decisions taken in this National Assembly, decided to protect the interests of depositors, including those of more than EUR 100,000. Among these depositaries is the state. Moreover, today and a good week ago at the Committee on Finance's debate, the question is why the border is set right here between bondholders and holders of subordinate financial instruments – because it is necessary to choose a healthy measure in socialising the losses of our banking system. We can speak, and I will say that in recent years there have been fatal delays in the opportunities for us to solve the problem in our banking system in a more elegant, cheaper and timely manner, which in the end would also imply that the spilling of the problem from banks to the economy today would not feel as painful as it is. However, in spite of my personal views or, if you wish, my client's position and restraint towards certain processes, you see that because of the continuity of these processes, because they are too crucial, we do not block processes, even those to which we have been severely detained or even opposed at the time that Janez Janša led this country. I am talking, say, about the concept of Slovenian State Holding in connection with banking and, above all, the concept of a bad bank, because we understand that the problem needs to be solved and that there is no time to do acrobatics for 180 degrees and to look for new recipes. I am pleased to carry out stress tests because I see in this assurance that the taxpayer's money will be protected as far as possible and that there will be no abuse of the various ambitions associated with the billions of bad investment transfers by banks, which are poor investments, which are something toxic and something bad, and for many also represent an extremely valuable opportunity. We need to make sure that these opportunities are not financed by taxpayers but will only assume the burden that is necessary to ensure the stability of the banking system, the credit crunch break and the start-up of credit. Money is a shy bird, said the former governor, Mr. Vizjak repeated it today. Yes, money is a shy bird, and that is also why this country has consciously decided that steps in the banking system will work in a measurable way. In such a way that those who are the weakest with taxpayers, including depositors, will be able to secure better than those who, due to past years' investments in various financial instruments, hybrid and subordinated debt, can promise higher returns from those instruments because of the nature of those instruments, as when something goes wrong, they also assume a greater part of the burden. First, shareholders, capital, then those financial instruments that are most similar to capital in their content. Hybrid means that it is a mixture of debt and equity, so that the financial instrument combines the characteristics of one and the other. Therefore, it is also true that the holders of such instruments — to be understood, not many of them — will assume the burden of 2,000 entities, according to my information, as they would in the event of bankruptcy. Here, of course, you will ask the question why we have not decided to bankruptcy in the case of these banks. I think that this was also a mature and wise decision, where it was carefully considered, what would be the spillover of the bankruptcy of individual banks into the fate of the entire banking system and in particular in the confidence of citizens and citizens, owners of deposits from Slovenian banks. I think that this action, which, unlike the radical delay in this area, was timely and measured in a way that minimised damage in the Slovenian banking system and the burden on taxpayers. It is interesting that there is a new wave of Euroscepticism, among the parties you have considered so far as one of the faithful advocates and allies of the European path. Today, the question arises where this law was written. That the European Central Bank will not direct our way. In doing so, I would like to call on all my colleagues to join our beliefs in understanding that Slovenia cannot fully resolve its problems on its own and that coordination with serious institutions, which also represent, among other things, the owners of our debt, is necessary. That is why I reject fast, seemingly attractive solutions – Iceland is not the same Slovenia, Iceland's banks have been exposed mainly to other economies, in other countries. There was no such close link between the problems of the banking system and the condition and indebtedness of the economy. If we decided in Slovenia on some quick and popular scenarios that we could read about on social networks, this would have a fatal impact on the entire economic system of this country. Let me round slowly. Why are we talking about state aid rules in the context of this law? In order not to help those who have to take up their share of the burden by public means. And when Mr Vizjak asks why the line of responsibility is right here, and I ask you, forgive me if he has had a well-educated financial investor, you know them more than I do, Mr Vizjak, more information, a better risk assessment than the citizen who invested his savings in the shares of the New Bank of Credit Maribor at the time when the public sale of shares was organised by your government. Did he have more information or not? So why does the shareholder of the New Bank of Credit Maribor, one of the hundred thousand, have to assume the burden of loss? Why not a stock exchange house that has many such financial instruments? Why? Because it's right. Because in its guidelines, the European Commission has drawn up an order whereby the liability for losses in the banking system or in the individual bank is assumed. In doing so, it is very important that this situation should not be worse than it would have been if the bank had not been granted State measures; therefore, in the case of a bank going bankrupt, this situation should not have been more favourable for the holder of such financial instruments than for the bank to receive State measures and support. I think that this order is completely adjusted, adequately protects the public interest, and this is the interest of taxpayers, I am convinced that it has also carried out a very strict proportionality test in assessing the retroactive effect on such institutions and instruments back. Among other things, because it has already been considered that in bankruptcy the holders of such instruments would lose identically or even more than in the case of the measures contained in the provisions of this Act. That's why I think this law needs to be adopted. The amendment, which only seems to contribute to really finding out what happened in the Slovenian banking system, does not. However, the Commission of Inquiry must start to work more actively than ever before, and from one passive role of the material collector, it must take on the active role of the interrogator of those who are first called to give us answers to questions as a public defender.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u36	Your Honor! I asked my questions to the Government, I did not know that Mr Frangež was already part of the Government to answer me, because these answers are with a political inspiration, I would only expect more professional answers from the Secretary of State. These responses by Mr Frangež are also attracted to the hair, not least turn back what I wanted to say. I wanted to say that it's not my opinion that it's a retroactive intervention, but this is the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, you could read it if you did, but you didn't want it – probably. So, it's a back-up procedure. What does that mean? This means that these well-educated investors at the time of purchase of these subordinate bonds were not aware of the rules of the game as they are now being applied and as outlined in the European Commission guidelines this August. They did not know, and if they knew, the big question is whether they would choose to purchase these securities or these financial instruments. That's a big question. Why? Because they bought subordinated liabilities from Slovenian system banks. In accordance with the legislation in force, they may be subject to property valuation in the case of insolvency proceedings or bankruptcy and liquidation. Not in one – we are not talking about one case today, not the other, but the third case. We speak when it is transferred or when one new procedure is used to rescue these banks. That is to say, the holders of subordinated debt invested in these bonds have invested under different conditions, with different risk behaviours than we do today. If you do not want to believe me, trust the Legal and Legislative Service, which warned us that we are retroactively interfering with the rights of these people, because in 2010, when these people bought subordinate bonds, such as the NLB banks at the window sold to them by a bank employee, he could safely believe that it would only be valuable if the bank went into liquidation or bankruptcy. He knew and evaluated: fine if the bank goes into liquidation and bankruptcy, O.K. I'm on top of it. Now we are imagining that it will also be devalued in the third case and this is a retroactive intervention. So now that we're talking about whether they were taught otherwise than the NLB or the NKBM shareholders, I'm also a shareholder of NKBM, but then I knew I was buying securities and I would be there if that happened, and it happened, and it's normal for the owners to always, because it's equity paper, not debt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u37	Mr. Visjak, finish the sentence, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u38	Sure. So, I asked why the limit is here, why a well-educated investor who bought bonds from these banks is not in the same position as the one who bought the subordinate debt. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak, you can come forward later in the new round of discussions if you want. Now it's Mr. Golubovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u40	Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! To return to the amendment to Article 2 for a moment. If I summarize it briefly, it provides for the State Council to be able to access all data from banks that have received cash in one way or another through recapitalisation, liquidation or bankruptcy. It is said that we will allow the authorities of the National Assembly to obtain information on all the members of any bank that has received State aid. It is likely that the policy must explain why it needs something, but the fact is that we are opening the door to political entry into banks and that such a left, right, upper or lower policy can play and have its own sandbox in banks where it will review such and different credit maps. This is the danger of this amendment, with the knowledge that there are already tools in the legislation, with which the relevant institutions can obtain confidential information from banks, it is said, they can be obtained by the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, the Bank of Slovenia and, after all, by the commission of inquiry. If you remember, I did a little digging yesterday, one of the investigative committees that dealt with the freebies won all the inflows and outflows through a person's transaction account. If this investigative commission were trying to do something, perhaps it would take into account the idea of a fellow Visiank, who said to look at the ten largest credit maps on the left and right, who signed and where the money went, maybe we could request it from the court and get it from the relevant banks. Now to the tools that we give to the relevant authorities through the amendment of the Banking Act. On a proposal from the GPU, the General Police Administration, the article imposing on banks that, in the event of detection, the findings of a crime not only give a general application but also provide confidential information to the police, the prosecution or the court. In addition to what is essential, outages are increased for a fourfold. In the event that the Penal Code says that there is an expiry date of five years, it is here at the bank office for 20 years. This also allows the relevant authorities to investigate backwards. And there's one more thing. I personally believe that it is the task of the National Assembly to adopt legislation that is also feasible in practice. In the last year, in the last year and a half or even two, the National Assembly shall adopt legislation and shall endeavour to adopt legislation that is also practicable in practice. That's the basic task. Whether the relevant authorities hope or can apply this legislation, these tools they have at their disposal are another issue. The fact is, things are changing. The fact is that the organs are always working better. Yesterday we were able to listen to a press conference on the functioning of the courts. Personally, I believe that slowly, but surely we are coming to a time when there will be no more fish in Slovenia that we would not be able to catch. There'll be no more creek where this fish would hide when we've talked about big fish being untouchable. The unions may have to change the record a little bit about the fact that big fish are untouchable in Slovenia because they are increasingly touchy and will increasingly be touchy. As I said, policy should adopt appropriate laws to ensure that positive signals to the relevant institutions begin to work, support them and if they have any obstacles to come and tell them where these obstacles are, that this legislation changes. Thus, dear colleagues, this amendment itself, unfortunately, I see as some kind of witch hunt, if it were accepted, any political options and I find it dangerous to accept this amendment on the fact that there are tools with which all relevant authorities can obtain confidential bank data, as well as an investigative commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Golubovic. Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u42	Colleagues and colleagues, the amendment before us, I do not see as a smoke screen as a smoke bomb, but as a contribution to greater transparency. To be very specific, because now we are discussing how this amendment means hunting witches, what it means to enter politics and other strange definitions, I will explain this very plastically. If we had a person A, let's call it by the most famous Slovenian name, John's person, for example, approved a million-dollar loan in the bank, but the coverage for this million-dollar loan was one insignificant, almost worthless property. What did this person A do? This person A definitely damaged the bank. Since it's a state bank, it's damaged state property. I guess we all agree on it this far. What's the problem? Now this banking system and these bank holes will have to be repaired by all taxpayers. But these same taxpayers and us legislators, who are going to decide these things, we can't know who this person A is. Do you think that's normal? I definitely don't. And those who talk about how everything is possible now under the current legislation, how you can get all the information about the people who participated in these things. Those of you who are on an investigative committee and who may have listened to any representative of the anti-corruption commission or anyone else, you will be able to remember that all these people at some point stop and say that from here on out they must no longer speak, because it is banking secrecy and the grey gentlemen who approved these loans, I must not disclose. In this sphere, this amendment affects these areas. That's why I definitely support him. I'm asking you how we'll be able to remove the causes so that maybe this same damage to state property won't happen again in five, ten years. You know, now the coalition convinces us, because it's okay, let's move on, fix the banking system, but you don't have to find out who's responsible for these things. If we don't find those responsible, these same people will be able to re-authorise credits in five, ten years without real bases and re-injure state property. This law, which is before us today, tells us that the owners, the state and, ultimately, the owners of subordinated financial instruments, i.e. the owners of bonds, will bear the greatest measure for the rehabilitation of banks and the banking system in the coming years or since the adoption of this law. We all absolutely agree that the burden of bank rehabilitation is borne by the owners, no doubt. However, in this third indent, bondholders have a somewhat unusual story. My predecessors spoke very carefully about this matter, but I ask you what is the difference between the one who had 200 000 euros a year ago and put it on the bank as a deposit, and the one who bought the bond for that money. They both believed that for some relatively safe investment. Now, whoever had the money invested is exempt from any rehabilitation of the bank, but whoever had the bonds will be included in the recovery and will be responsible for the resolution of the banking system. What are we talking about? We're just saying that we use the same vats for everyone. If the state guarantees up to 100,000 euros to all depositors, then in some ways it could also guarantee those that have bonds of up to 100,000 euros. It's just the same rules for everyone. Mr Frangež used to say what is the difference between those who bought NKBM bonds and NKBM shares. I think that the difference is huge and large, especially in expectations and behaviour, what can happen to these instruments. The one who bought the shares knew precisely that the fluctuations were greater and that they could go up at some point and down again; and that was exactly what was happening. With bonds, the story is completely different. When we talked about Factor Bank and Probank, once again, colleague Frangež explained that it was absolutely nothing unusual for the state to invest money in private banks to ensure liquidity for these two banks. I understand that the state is investing money in its state banks to ensure eternal liquidity, but I do not see any reason — I do not know the right term — but there is no need for private banks to do so, and especially for very small private banks, where their owners should be primarily responsible and they must provide this necessary capital for the liquidity of these two banks. On the one hand, we have a country that invested in these two private banks to ensure liquidity, and on the other hand we have owners who, instead of providing liquidity money, were paying for dividends. It's just that something's wrong, and anyone who has a little bit of a healthy farmer in their right mind knows that things don't get spilt here, in their own words. And the more we say about these things that everything is fine, that everything is great, we create a bigger conspiracy theory. Maybe that's all there is to it. I think I listened to the Prime Minister of the Government days ago, who said that Slovenia would, of course, solve the problems itself. In this direction, the new Governor of the Bank also supported it. Now, however, we have seen today the announcement and statement by Mr Frangež, who said that, clearly, Slovenia cannot solve its problems alone. That's an interesting statement that says a lot of things.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we talked a lot about this law, in particular much about subordinated bonds, even more about bank secrecy. I must admit, my fellow opposition, that you were very convincing, as far as this is concerned, but obviously not enough, because you failed to convince yourself. You have not voted against a single article. Not in a single article! This situation is discussed by many people’s negotiations when, for example, three: A mountain shook, a mouse was born. Or say: The action speaks louder than the words. Or perhaps: Don’t start unless you intend to finish. Here, perhaps Mrs Potrata and Mr Jerovšek on some other committee would consider which sentence is appropriate for this situation, but I would rather go back to the Banking Act. Mr Jerovšek, you want information on who caused this, I will say, the situation in the Slovenian banking system. You want information on credit fields, credits and other matters, because not only credits have caused those who are guilty. However, here we have to look at what article 214 of the current law says, and this does not talk about these data that you have listed, which I agree would be nice, that perhaps a slightity is more widely available, but article 214 speaks of all the data. He's talking about the data, including the feeding books that old moms open up for their barely born grandkids. He's talking about all the residents' accounts. That's how you get here too wide anyway. For this information that you have mentioned and would like to receive, I agree that it would be nice if it were as widely as possible to have access to it in the bad bank law that we adopted or accepted — I was not here yet — under the previous government. In fact, this bad bank law is officially called a different one, but let’s say it opens up credit maps that are transferred to a bad bank and are largely responsible for such a situation. Moreover, this law, which we are enacting today, is also expanding access to the courts, the prosecution and the police, so that we are clearly going this way, but nothing in the banks can be disclosed, because trust in bank data is the basic thing that banks operate with. And, Mr Jerovšek, about your first question. Good question, I often ask myself that question myself, and unfortunately, I have no answer to it. Mr. Tonin, five years from now, there will be no further damage to the banks. I sincerely hope that then these banks will no longer be state-owned, and I am sure that this will not be the case; I hope that because we will sell them and the country will survive, and not because we will simply bury them, as it now shows, is happening. With regard to bonds and bonds investments and deposits, we must note that there is a variety of different securities; there are ordinary bonds, there are subordinate bonds, there are even priority shares that have bond elements and share elements, there are coupons, non-counsel bonds and then there are more derivatives. People for various reasons invest in these different instruments, and everyone has certain expectations and many, unfortunately, also wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Obviously, Mr Pavlišič feels obliged to share his teachings and revelations here, I have not seen one of his views on the proposed amendment in its implementation and I am reporting in essence to the replica because he has seen the transfer of those who have voted on the committee on this law. On the committee we voted on the amendments to this law and, of course, we supported or supported the amendment that we tabled, and we abstained in the amendments tabled by the coalition as amendments to the Legislative and Legal Service in the sense of correcting certain nomotechnic legal matters. That is why we voted as we are. When we voted on the law or all the articles of the law, there was one argument by the Secretary of State that said, and unfortunately he did not give us evidence of this that the adoption of this law is a condition — and this is what the Government writes in this law — that we will be able to transfer bad claims to a bad bank at all. This is a condition for the project, which is key to the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. This is stated in the introduction of this law, because otherwise there would be irreparable consequences, for only by adopting this law can a bad bank project be brought to life. That is why we have not voted against it, and at the same time we have not voted against it because we hope that you will only miss it in plenary today, that we will introduce into the law an article that will allow Parliament to receive data or parliamentary working bodies to obtain data on these bank secrets, that is, concrete transactions that are imported and which will cost taxpayers a lot of money. If taxpayers have to pay for this, it is right that taxpayers also know what they are paying for, but not that they are paying for something that is in the black box that you want to keep in this black box today in the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you. The following is Mr Jožef Jerovšek, who has the floor for the replica, and then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavlišič gave me an intensive statement, quote, and I will begin at his end when he says in answer to my first question that he himself has repeatedly asked himself. If I go after my memory, I think at first I asked if this coalition even wanted to get rid of the banks, or if it wanted to clear up what had happened in our banks. I have to commend him for being dead, for showing me the state within this coalition, for just playing around, for knowing people, how to outsmart people, and that it's not really a serious purpose. That's why this amendment of ours burned so much "and medias really". I must tell my colleague Pavlišič – I have before me article 214 of the law – if this coalition were to move forward, then I would propose an amendment to the amendment to protect certain categories. And you all know that this investigative commission you are now referring to is not far from threatening to read any data from the depositaries, and I don't know what; that the investigative commissions have a hard job anyway. This time it is even made up of four members of the coalition and only three members of the opposition. You're afraid of it like I don't know what. At the same time, the coalition proves that it protects irregularities in banks; that it protects on every whim, in every way! Of course, this is far from right, it is wrong, for how this banking secrecy is now determined is the protection of crimes. Criminal acts that have occurred are illegal secrets. You know, in Europe, they know the category of illegal secrecy. When someone with a code is classified, classified information protects against exposing a crime. That's a huge deal. This is already, according to European legislation, in the criminal codes of many advanced, democratic countries, that this is an illegal secret and all those articles fall because they need to be disclosed to the competent institutions. The competent institution is certainly also an investigative commission in Europe. Yeah, well, how do we get the pussies to spill it once, open it up and run?Oh, my God! To protect citizens, taxpayers. I see I've spent time with the replica so I won't overstep. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you, too. It's true. You're just running out of time. Next, before I open up the possibility of a new application for a debate, I give the floor to the Magi first. Matthew Vraničar to provide some information or answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. First, something about the amendment and then a few more answers to the questions about the law that have been put in the debate so far. As far as the amendment is concerned, it should be noted that the amendment is placed in an article setting out the competence of the Bank of Slovenia to determine certain conditions to be met by members of the Board and the Supervisory Boards and does not prejudice the extension of this Article, which provides for an extension of the limitation period for offences or liability for irregularities identified under the banking system. Nor does this proposed amendment raise any exception or establish a relationship to the provisions of 214 and further Articles, in particular 215, which specify in more detail how banking secrecy is dealt with and in which cases the information which is bank secrecy may also be disclosed. This is already under the current law or, in any event, if the party agrees with the disclosure. In other cases, if this information is required by the Bank of Slovenia or another supervisory authority in accordance with its powers, if this is necessary for the transmission of data to the parent companies, for the exchange of information on creditworthiness, if I am a bit shorter, and with the proposal of this act, these points shall also be extended if the data are to be transmitted to the court, the State Prosecutor's Office or the police in the event that there are grounds for suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed. The provision allowing or imposing, or not allowing, but merely instructing members of the board or supervisory board to provide the information referred to in Article 214 of the National Assembly, the working body of the National Assembly or the Commission of Inquiry shall not be limited to cases where the powers of the National Assembly, the working body or the commission of inquiry are based on the rules in force. Today, we have already heard that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the General Assembly or the Law on Parliamentary Investigation in the case of the State Assembly’s Investigative Commissions are laid down by the National Assembly. However, there is no link between these provisions. Therefore, in our view, such an extension of provisions or such a non-constant determination of an exemption from bank secrecy may have a negative effect. We have heard in our comments today that the proposed solutions adopted by law discourage investors from investing in the Slovenian banking system in order to reduce confidence in the Slovenian banking system, but the whole purpose or purpose of this law is to restore that trust in essence, while the provision under which investors would not be prepared to have their investment or data on them to be protected as bank secrecy and disclosed only in cases precisely specified by the law could also have a significant impact on the escape of capital or money from the Slovenian banking system. Taking all of these into account, we estimate that the proposed provision is too much of a general and non-consistent interference with the provisions of the Banking Act in the field of banking secrecy and would also constitute a significant deviation from internationally established banking secrecy standards, which could therefore cause difficulties for Slovenian banks to participate in international financial markets. We estimate that, for the purposes pursued by the proposers of the amendment under consideration, it is possible to pursue these objectives with other mechanisms already in force in the existing legislation, there has already been some talk about them, which is why I consider that the proposed amendment is not appropriate to vote on it. It's about the law itself. The question was whether we are still independent in the resolution process of banks because of this law. We are undoubtedly independent, but we owe this independence and salvation to align ourselves with the rules for which we have committed ourselves to respect them when we become a member of the European Union. And the issue of granting State aid in view of the impact on the functioning of the internal market of the European Union is a matter within the competence of the European institutions. As a result, we also know and are indisputable that the measures provided for in the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to remedy the banking system are state aid and therefore must be given consent or approval by the competent European institutions, more specifically by the European Commission. State aid rules in the European legal system are not laid down by directives or regulations, but are laid down by guidelines or communications from the European Commission. The European Commission shall, whenever it decides on certain requirements for State aid, act in accordance with its views or with the communications in force at that time. For a concrete example of State aid to financial system institutions, this means that the Communication from the European Commission in force from 1 August of this year should be taken into account. That's indisputable. However, this State aid regime also needs to be separated from future systemic risk management by holders of subordinate financial instruments, hybrid financial instruments and other major investors, such as those investing in financial institutions worth more than EUR 100,000. State aid rules require Member States wishing to impose State aid on their banks to divide the obligations for the recovery of an individual entity between the State, owners and holders of hybrid or subordinated debt securities in the way set out in the proposal for a law. State aid rules do not refer to the participation of depositors with deposits worth more than EUR 100,000, nor do they refer to holders of ordinary bonds. These state aid rules are not tangulated. At the moment, with the proposed law, we are transferring the rules that follow the rules for granting State aid to the national system. If we do not confirm these rules in the proposed way, this means that the measures that could be implemented under the law on the State's measures to remedy the banking system would not be operational. We need these solutions in order to be able to complete all the proposals of the measures launched so far after the ZUKSB. Why all the banks? The Law on State Measures for the Rehabilitation of the Banking System also applies to all banks. Which banks will actually receive these measures will depend on the decisions of the competent authorities in each individual case. Different treatment of banks in the case of the implementation of these measures that we are talking about today and of the measures under the ZUKSB is simply not possible. So why the border where it's set? As I have already mentioned, it is a matter of complying with the envisaged rules for the implementation of State aid. The second is the question of the further development of the system of rules for the operation of the banking system in the European banking area, which is expected to come to life in 2018, and these solutions will also need to be summarised in Slovenian legislation. There, at least in the proposals currently on the table, there is also talk about the participation of depositors with deposits of more than €100,000 in the recovery process of each financial entity. Let me point out that a similar regime, as established by the proposal for a law, has already been introduced in some other European countries. Let me give you Spain, Cyprus and the Netherlands. Retroactivity. In the legal theory and also in the practice of the Court of Auditors, there is a difference in unfairness and genuine retroactivity. True retroactivity is one that reaches into a closed relationship; this is not the case in our case, or in the case of measures brought by this law. Inadequate retroactivity, however, affects the measures or relations under way, so that they have started before a State measure is put in place and are still on the move, so they have not yet been concluded at the time of the adoption of a specific legal measure. In this case, the Constitutional Court has already ruled in other situations that it is not unacceptable retroactivity if it is duly justified in the legislative procedure. At the same time, in this case, such a measure must also cease the proportionality test, which means that the intervention in this relationship must be proportionate. Given how we have restricted the intervention to subordinated securities and hybrid securities, we estimate that the proposed measures will cease the proportionality test. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Interest is expressed in the debate, so I invite you to apply for a debate. First of all, Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u52	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Colleagues, colleagues! Again, we are talking about a law that we are adopting by emergency procedure, and this is the second in a series now. First of all, we are in banking, first of all we have accepted a guarantee for two banks, and today we have a key change in the definition or participation of subordinated debt owners in the resolution of the banking system. In Slovenia, we all know that we are really waiting for this rehabilitation of the banking system after an unnecessary period and the price will be significantly higher than it would have been in the past. However, we ask ourselves, as we have already said in the position of the Group of Members, why do we now not know how much, or between 10 and 20, 25% of GDP, but here we are talking about some amount that is less than 1% of GDP and which is still decided on by us today that we will make more or less allowances for these people, despite the fact that the rules of the game were completely different when they participated in this business. The debate on this amendment and the most frequently used words of "trust" and "bank secrecy" used today. Yes, it will be very difficult to gain confidence back in the Slovenian banking system. On the one hand, you justify to the applicants that the matter is in line with the institutions of the European Community, the European Commission, the Bank and that these measures must be taken because of this credibility. On the other hand, I firmly believe that with the rehabilitation of the banking system we will also need confidence within the country and to a large extent trust in those who will one way or another, so all of us are paying for these things that have been happening in the bank in the last decade or more. I think that all too little attention in the country is devoted to this public, is to people who will all bear these burdens together. That is why these very urgent procedures, where we can limit ourselves to some part of the law, are very disturbing and we are missing this comprehensive solution to the banking system. What were the solutions outside? In America it was relatively quick to decide, and also responsible people were very quickly sought, placed where they belonged, graduated, closed, and eventually lost all the reputation they had in those years in such or other ways. Clearly, the institutions of the rule of law are in operation. In Slovenia we had a case when we wondered whether it was okay or not that even from abroad they had to come to their bank to protect the yard, break into this bank literally and clear up the corrupt things that were happening in that bank. Apparently, that's where things work if foreign owners are in our country. It is more than obvious that both our symmetry and the functioning of this system do not allow or operate in such a way that the system can function effectively. Otherwise, what has happened to us so far could not have happened and we could not possibly have such depths in the banking system and, on the other hand, the system that is in place, which does not work and practically the people who participated in it walk freely around our Republic of Slovenia. We follow European cases and European standards. I think it is a very eloquent example of Germany, where state institutions have literally bribed people and sought out those who for decades have taxed in Germany and put this money elsewhere in their accounts, and that money has been properly confiscated or taxed by what is to be taxed. Today, however, we are talking about whether it is right or wrong for those who have taken credit — many of whom, unfortunately, have also poured this money into other countries when they saw the Devil taking a joke and these ambitious acquisitions will not go well — whether we should know about it or not. Excuse me, I was also very dismayed by Mr Šušteršič as a member of the government last year, when he asked himself and simply spoke to the government about how he simply could not get the data that was going on, neither from the Bank of Slovenia nor in any other way, so that they could properly put up a bad bank project themselves or respond to those who were the best advocates of those measures today, and they swore to recapitalisation last year. If we wanted to resist recapitalisation with hundreds of millions of euros, we wanted to make it clear that this is no longer going on; and it really is not going that way. Today, with such an easy way to say that people who have invested in bank windows, according to the prospectuses that set out certain rules, are slightly undergraduate, you forget to say that in this number 2 000 there is also an institution where the savings of many people are made, whether they are insurance companies that have been misled by the Governor, that it is right that it is for the stability of the banking system, that it is right that money goes into such instruments and that money is important and through those instruments will be people at a safe age. It would also be much easier for me to decide on such measures if I had a problem on the table as a whole and the solutions proposed; solutions in accordance with Europe's instructions, in accordance with common sense and in line with the fact that citizens and citizens could also be told that someone would be responsible for this nonsense. I'm sorry if we're watching what we've accepted right now. When we accepted the guarantee, we then attached the proposal to the Minister and also to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia with a very clear addition. Thank God someone finally intervened in the banks, cut things off, get inside the liquidation board to review all these accounts, all those who took credit, who gave them, and those who were also responsible for doing so. Now, if you'll excuse me, what can happen to us? I'll also give you a hypothetical case like it was today. Someone took credit at the Factor Bank or Probank, I don't know, there were millions, ten million spinning fast. He took 10 million credits, put a million back in a deposit. What does that mean? We must not know that he received 10 million credits from which he gave, I don't know, a million in deposits, 9 in what investments at home or in what oasis abroad. We're simply saying that it's some sacred thing that can't be interfered with. Forgive me if the burden we now have to accept in Slovenia is shared among our people, it is right and fair for these people to have the opportunity and that we also have the right to know who those credits were in the past. As far as our Group of Members is concerned, we certainly support this amendment. If it is necessary to complete it, limit it to which part, we should also complete it. In no way do we behave so sublimely and simply swear that the system we have is such that it enables everything to go wrong, we see that everything is practically wrong. In one law, where we said that the source of assets, which is not explained, will now be taxed, we will now reach into the instrument of this reverse burden of proof. In 2010, it was unacceptable in the National Assembly to adopt a declaration, a resolution of the European Parliament where you would serve this instrument in those convicted of crimes in the field of weapons, drugs and terrorism. I think that in Slovenia we will now have to come out of this problem in such a way that we will also have to change and have comprehensive solutions and ultimately have responsibility for those who are guilty of such a situation. I've already made a comparison, someone gets up in the morning, gets in the car, he's careless, he hits the foot, he's in jail. I believe that these people who took these loans didn't go on loan either to secure loans and get the country into that state. But just as the one who got up in the morning and accidentally got in the car broke down, so did the other. This amendment speaks of the fact that it is easy in this area to open up this matter and the smallest intervention that is in this area is that the simply responsible authorities of the State, what the National Assembly certainly is, have this opportunity and that we ultimately have confidence that we will know what we are doing and ultimately that these things will not happen to us in the future. In the Slovenian People's Party, once again, we support this amendment. It is totally unacceptable, however, for us to address one small part of this problem in banks again in such an urgent manner, rather than to address the whole and also to identify how these burdens will also burden the owners of subordinated debts. And I think that what Dr. Arhar – I have not heard so far from experts or politicians who would challenge his authority in the banking field, I think that his warnings in this case are very much in place and simply in the way we do now in the National Zob in this law, and obviously today we will still be in other laws that have a fatal impact on our citizens, but we will not gain trust among people where we should most have it, if we want to keep this society consistent and that we will stand behind those decisions that will be made here. We'll support the amendment. If the amendment is not supported, the law will not have our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much again. I am now looking at what and how to ensure that we get some data that will help us understand this enigma of Slovenian banking; what happened. Madam Secretary of State, you have said that the amendment is too general and unconstitutional and that the objectives pursued by this amendment can be traced with other mechanisms in existing legislation. You can't do that! I assure you that obviously you can't, because then these mechanisms gave results. We would give them in the area of – I don't know – Banka Slovenije has an approach, but she didn't want to look at it, but she wanted to file a criminal complaint for whom, because I know that the crimes here are hidden in the back. Without the courts, because I can't explain to myself that the court would not have initiated any proceedings to confiscate assets of illegal origin, and there would have been a lot of material. Obviously, if we don't make a difference here, that law about confiscation of property of illegal origin will be a dead letter on paper. And that's where he protects himself! Comrade Pavlišič said that he too wondered whether he wanted to move on or not, but he was a member of the coalition! It has to be changed, but the front has to be rejected. Come on, maybe fix it, say it won't go too far. I accept that, but first, Mr Frangež's debate, when he sees - I don't know where he'll get just a few data from the credit cards and go hunting witches. Yeah, how can he say something like that?Oh, my God! How such a statement can be! More importantly, on the basis of the unconscious Mr Frangež said, after he had responded to his colleague Visiak, why deposits in banks were substantially increased, and private banks by the State: in order to preserve the liquidity of banks, trust and so on. Instead of starting the liquidation procedure of these banks a long time ago, perhaps two years ago, under the same procedures, but then with a significantly smaller guarantee and a smaller deficit for the country, not one billion and 30 million, as the state has now decided, if this were the case in time, it would indeed be for a significantly smaller number. No! No! They wanted to improve trust in the Factor Bank because there are dedicated people there to be seductive, ordinary citizens and deposit deposits there; and this happened! The country knowingly seduced people into going to ruin, and knowingly protected private banks, even though it knew that they were doing bad business, that they were doing business, that they were paying dividends from an outlawed bank, but knowingly left money there. And this unconscious recognition given by Mr Frangež deals with finance and is a member of the coalition is worth gold. But then let the criminal charges, what the state has done here, what the responsible people are because of this, ladies and gentlemen, you can see here at Factor Bank, what incest links, what kind of octopus connections are there in this country when it comes to bank money when it comes to financial oligarchy. [[...]] That is why this amendment is urgently needed — either in such a form or in a slightly complementary form. With existing mechanisms, such as the coalition imagines, it is impossible to achieve the effects that we urgently need to achieve. This is not a violation of the rights of ordinary citizens, a small man. You protect the tycoons, the oligarchs, the financial malversators, the ones who stole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Brane Golubovic has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u56	Good-bye. I'm not protecting a tycoon, a speculator, a politician who's been legally convicted in the first degree, a policy that has an inquest, anyone. I'm just not gonna let that happen. But it's something; and whether it's so hard to understand or at least that's how I understand it. When we say that the Germans, even their intelligence services, have purchased data to access secret accounts in Swiss banks, this does not mean that their Parliament will enter the bank at any time and may require any information of a confidential nature from their German bank. This is not even possible in Austria, nor is it possible in Italy. A politician to come into this House needs two conditions: he must be 18 years old and elected, in addition to being able to do his job, but we do not need to bring this paper. And now let politics be the investigator, the prosecutor and the judge at the end, and say we don't need the police, not the prosecution, not the courts, but always the ruling coalition will decide which credit maps we're going to get from the banks, which feed book of any commissioner we're going to get; so that's the point of this story. I'm turning the story; we're adding some tools to the functioning of the police, the prosecution and the courts, and we're adding them. We extend the limitation period for crimes in this area four times. Some of the tycoons who were told they weren't. - Don't go after the tycoons who took credit and couldn't pay them back, they're in jail, some of them even write blogs, read any of them ever, about what's going on. So things change, and things happen. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is my wish and it will always be, and I will always advocate that all those who have done anything illegal and whatever name you want them to be, I don't know, some great people who are responsible for this Slovenia, that if they have done anything illegal, they will be tried and if convicted, they will go to prison. The same will happen on the banking system, and I am firmly convinced of this because there is a new generation of investigators, judges, police officers who are not burdened with the past and with some divisions not left or right and are doing their job. I believe that in this House there are most Members and Members who want to adopt such legislation and that it is done that we will all be equal before the law. But maybe I am there is one who has some interest or is part of some interest groups that have been in control of this Slovenia for the past 10 years and have less and less power. As I said before, no fish in this Slovenia is too large for our authorities to catch it. But we cannot assume this responsibility, that we will be investigators, prosecutors and ultimately judges, and that we will freely decide whether my mother's feeding book will be available to all politicians because someone would want to discredit me. We have opened this story so wide that what politics can see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you. I think Mr. Bogovich has notified himself to the replica. You have a replica of three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u58	He referred to this debate I had myself. Dear colleagues, we say that politicians decide about banks – yes! In Slovenia it was so that politicians with strong connections decided on banks and that is why we have the situation as we have it. Not those sitting here in Parliament. I'm sorry, I don't. But you have someone closer to you if you're already addressing me who's in your client who's made that decision. The public was also told about several hundred million credits that were imported. And I'm sorry if they had and have this option that taxpayers are going to pay, not now talk about talking about general intervention in the banking system, but we're talking about banks that the state is going to rehabilitate and where the credits that are the original sin of these problems are. And that's what we're talking about. I think that Slovenian policy will have to unify once and for all to find the culprits and not to generalise all of this. I am the first of those to oppose such a way of doing that we will generally walk around banks and do what we do; but because this has been done so far and because this account will come very quickly, I fear that, as justice works, generations of prosecutors will probably be replaced too slowly to be treated equally before their hands. This year we will have to decide in what way and how much money we will put on people’s shoulders. That is why I think that in that package in the National Assembly, on the Commission of Inquiry and elsewhere, as Mr Vizjak has mentioned, those who have taken millions of dollars out of these banks, and unfortunately many who have had small savings, are now at risk. We're talking about this, not some general bank walk. Once again, unfortunately, politics has taken too much out of these banks, and those who have not been given a mandate in the elections have considered themselves to be a hard-working and many of these people in these cross-story stories — what we have, if we have also listened well to the representative of the international fund, that such interconnections as we have here are nowhere else. And that's what this country needs to cut into. Until we pour ourselves some pure wine here and go some platonic politics in the National Assembly and we'll call the beans, we'll have this problem for as long as we can. Once again, I draw attention to the key problem that we will have – we will have a problem when two million Slovenians and Slovenians have to explain why this happened when the account is displayed. I think we have a duty here to try and do something in this direction. This amendment is an attempt in this direction. If it were good will, if someone wanted to participate in this amendment and help with screeching to the exact details, they could take time, but obviously there is no intention; by urgent procedures, you accept everything in the National Assembly. At some point, "after emergencies" or the word "swift" were also doing a lot of things, and people still have headaches today. I hope that there will not be any of us because of these urgent procedures, which we are now doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting on my part, too! Now that I have heard a few hours of debate, I join the demand to pursue economic crime in a consistent manner, and it is determined whether there have been abuses and they are duly sanctioned in the credit system. However, in doing so, we, Members and Members, must be consistent and very careful to maintain our ethics, the ethics of the legislative branch of power, which is only one of the three branches of government. Mr Vizjak asked himself in his debate how long will we continue to trust the supervisory authorities in Parliament. It is said that Mr Vizjak does not trust Banka Slovenije at all in the case of banks. If we don't trust the supervisory authorities, why do we even have them? Does Ambassador Vizjak then propose their dismissal? If not the Bank of Slovenia, then who will be in charge of bank supervision? Will simply naming an institution like that increase confidence in the system? Of course not! Trust can only be built by ethics; the ethics of the supervisory authorities, the ethics of the banks, the ethics of the borrowers and the proposed amendment are also our ethics, according to the legislative branches of the authorities or us, Members and Members, in a consistent manner taking into account the division of power. Trust in the banking system requires ethics to ensure the confidentiality of bank data as well, which does not mean that no one should have any insight into this data. We have a system of supervision in place for this purpose, which is taken care of by the Bank of Slovenia. The Banking Act provides in Article 215 that the obligation to protect data shall not apply where such data is required by the Bank of Slovenia or by another supervisory authority for the purposes of supervision. The new law further provides for an exception where the bank provides data to the court, the State Prosecutor's Office or the police in the event that there are grounds for suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed, unless the law expressly provides for the provision of confidential information by the investigating judge. Of course, an additional exception is not defined in cases where an investigation is initiated on the police side, since in these cases the police have access to all the data under the order of the investigating judge. The Penal Code also makes it clear that the suspension of an accusation to prepare a criminal offence and the suspension of an accusation of a criminal offence or of an offender of a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment for up to 3 years. Thus, anyone who knows that a crime has been committed or will be committed has failed to report it becomes the perpetrator of the crime himself. The Penal Code also lays down the offence of issuing classified information with a prison sentence of up to 3 years. The same shall also be the case for those who illegally obtain confidential information in order to use it unjustifiably or to publish it publicly. There is no basis for the National Assembly to operate on such data in any way. At the same time, the National Assembly would obviously violate the Constitution by examining such information and identifying who is to blame, who is not to blame, what is to blame, and what is not to blame. The Authority is clearly divided into legislative, executive and judicial bodies and the National Assembly certainly does not fall within the judicial branch of power. Thus, to prosecute crimes, expectations of accountability must be directed, for example, to the Attorney General. Fisher's bell about economic crime says so, I summed up: "Even economic crime cases are coming to trial, we are reaching convictions, which is the most beautiful indication that we are doing the right thing. There are still a lot of them in investigative and predictive procedures. You'll get your turn, too. Often these are difficult things that are not allowed to be handled by hand. But the train started moving, that's essential." End of quote. On our part, it's ethical to make sure this train doesn't stop. I will therefore not support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u62	Dear President, thank you for your word! I will personally support this amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, I will try to argue, which is why it is good for the other Members to support this amendment, namely only from the Probanka and Factor Bank case. I think that this amendment is misinterpreted by some Members. This is not a witch hunt but a hunt for bank books by certain individuals, but, above all, that the authorities and parliament can resolve these procedures, which have been irregular in banks, in a faster way. Or in other words, I find it fair to the taxpayers to know who the taxpayers will be saving in the Probanka and Factor Bank case. This means, in the case of depositories, more than 100,000 euros. Probably such a measure would not be necessary and the share of the rehabilitation of the Probank and the Fractor Bank could also be contributed by those with deposits over EUR 100,000. This has not been decided and I think it would be important that, in these cases, these are extreme cases, certain data are also obtained by the relevant Commissions or the authorities of the National Assembly. On the other hand, it would be fair for taxpayers to obtain information in some way that is being resolved in certain cases when this is not necessary. As far as this law is concerned, it seems to me that there is a flaw in certain matters, at least I personally see one thing. This law will again punish those who are not responsible or who have not contributed to this situation, but will not punish those who are responsible for leading certain banks to the situations in which they are. This law speaks solely of the fact that the penalised owners of subordinated bonds, hybrid papers that had no effect on the decisions of the bank. However, this law does not, in any word or word, indicate what sanctions will be imposed on those who have brought the banks into this situation. So, Madam Secretary of State, if possible, you can respond in this direction. Why does this law not speak in any way of how those responsible for bringing the banks into this system will be sanctioned? I personally believe that Banka Slovenije, members of the administrations of these banks and the supervisory councils will be held accountable here; and those who have bought securities in some legal way will now be punished. On the other hand, I am interested in the opinion of the Secretary of State, how he comments on the letter sent by the President of the European Central Bank, Draghi, to the European Commission about two months ago, in which, I would say, the European Central Bank and Draghi have estimated that the proposed "buy and" way of rehabilitating the banking system at a given time is not the most appropriate and that the consequences would be, I could say, more broadly, in the sense of mistrust in the banking system. On the other hand, we know that it is likely that the largest holders of these subordinates are pension companies, mutual funds and insurance companies. On the one hand, it seems to me that this will be a considerable shock, because all these companies will actually have to write down "per immediately" and overnight, pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds will have to write this thing off, because, as we see from this law, all these papers will be worthless. Was it not possible to find a solution here so that this write-off would somehow be more successful? As a result, what does such a solution mean — especially assuming that the European Central Bank has already pointed out certain matters — to trust in the banking system itself? What will be the reaction of those who are likely to actually have the value of their investments overnight? Could it therefore mean that we will continue to discuss the possibility of any bankruptcy of a pension company or similar institution? On the other hand, it is also a matter – at least according to the State Secretary on the Committee on Finance, such a proposal was somehow prepared at the Ministry of Finance and at the Bank of Slovenia and would then go to the European Commission. I might conclude once again that I will support this amendment, in particular by trying to appeal to all Members and Members, not to hunt some witches here, but to be honest with taxpayers, to know at what point someone and why they are saving when it is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you, too. The next one has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! First, I must answer some of the questions raised during the debate, especially as to where this law was written and then Mr Frangež himself explained what I should think, where he was and where he would not have been and what reservations he should have had to have to European institutions, and of course he was going in the wrong, misleading direction. Actually, it's hard based on one sentence then to insinuate for someone else, but it's probably possible. Him, whatever. The law itself states on page 4 that the European Commission, DG Comp, the Republic of Slovenia, has announced that new State aid rules for support measures in favour of banks in the context of the financial crisis will be drawn up to implement measures in the Slovenian banks. This is a message, according to my information, dated 1 August 2013 and on the basis of which our government or the Ministry of Finance went to write the law, but certainly no provision goes through the Government or would have been adopted by the Government or the National Assembly if it had not been confirmed by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and so on. In this connection, my rhetorical question was whether we might not know something about whether these regulations are now being written on the orders of some. As the Secretary of State has mentioned, this is, in fact, – and as mentioned here – based on this State Aid Communication, although this has also come a little late. So much for that first. Second. I would like to say that, if we are talking about this law later, the President, too, about the amendment, we do not know exactly what the state of the Slovenian banks are in, but we are actually adopting a law which, of course, means burden-sharing, this is very well said, it also means that the Bank of Slovenia will be able to propose its own administrations, enforcement administrations and so on; in short, very sharp measures in individual banks, on the other hand, burden-sharing between owners, recipients or those with hybrid instruments, at the end of the depository and, of course, even further between the country. The depositories here are not directly mentioned that there will be no problems, but this division here is. On the other hand, this system actually constitutes a new bankruptcy procedure for banks. This is part of a bankruptcy procedure that is already in the Banking Act today, but something new needs to be done here. What is worrying today is that we do not have actual information on where our banking system is, what is the situation, how much it is actually capable of acting, how much assistance it needs, or in other words the recapitalisation of owners, how much assistance it needs from the European Central Bank and how it will be done together. Here are some worrying views of the whole thing and the whole marriage. Speaking of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, banking secrecy and so on. The situation in our banking system is such that, in fact, no decisions have been made today. We have not yet reached a person responsible for anything for any solution. I'm talking about the banking system. If so, then it is probably also in all the laws listed here — the Penal Code, then we have a special law governing the confiscation of property and so on — it is also likely that either there is something wrong, or these laws are simply not implemented, or someone does not want to implement them too quickly. In short, he doesn't want to find out who's responsible for the individual screaming cases. We're not talking about any credit cards now, we're not talking about any nutrition books and so on. We are talking about screaming cases that come out here in the Slovenian economic and financial space. That's what this amendment is about. If someone doesn't like any diction, he could put an amendment to the amendment, he could make his own proposal and this would be a matter of Slovenian social life, that is, not finding those responsible, preventing or achieving that all of these institutions would start working here, including the National Assembly. When some talk about how the National Assembly does not have this right, there is no other right that we do not know that it is enough that you are 18 years old and so on – especially Mr Golubovic. — we underestimate ourselves as if we are not responsible and responsible for the adoption of legislation that is being enacted or for the failure to adopt legislation that may be necessary. Here I cannot share such an opinion that we are not responsible, nor responsible for anything, that we do not know how something should be done. I'm sorry, it's a simple slip in front of actual problems and a wink before something is actually done. But the law doesn't work! The legislation on the basis of which the confiscation of property is carried out does not actually work. There is also this amendment in this connection. I don't see any problems here, nor with Banka Slovenije. If a colleague asks Vizjak about the responsibility of Banka Slovenije, this is not a denial of Banka Slovenije, Mr Jerič, this is not a denial of Banka Slovenije. This is because certain institutions and people in these institutions did not work at a certain point; they did not act in favour of this country, they did not point out the problems of the banking system and, of course, they did not propose the right solutions. That's why we're here. Not that we are here where we are; in a month or a half, taxpayers, of course, also taxpayers, will be able to resolve all these wrong decisions: uncontrolled banking matters, wrong decisions in individual banks, and perhaps wrong decisions about bank rehabilitation. When we talk about these two banks that have now gone into the so-called controlled liquidation, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the end of the story! Papers travel to Frankfurt and the European Central Bank will probably decide once again whether these two banks are bankruptcy banks or whether this is the right choice. That was just the beginning. I don't know what happens when these banks find out they have negative capital, then there's no alternative to any other procedure except bankruptcy. Let's say that happens. This decision, which has been made, has been temporary, has been current for these two banks, and therefore it is in fact that we have the socialisation of the consequences of the wrong decisions in these two banks, and we also have that taxpayers will pay for the completely wrong decisions in the two private banks. In these two private banks, the state played a very important role, especially when it deposits its deposits in these two banks. We have found that the state, the government, has dramatically increased the amount of deposits, several times in these two banks at the beginning of 2009, at the beginning of the Pahor government. It increased further on 6 September 2013, when it also increased – I think by 108 million – the amount of deposits. This is the data of the Ministry of Finance – the answer to the question. This incest situation, when we have a very large number of deposits in state banks, where the state is the owner at the same time, continues. If we look at the criteria of the exposure of Slovenian banks from the country and take into account here the amount of deposits as a percentage of the capital of banks, we find that this is extremely high compared to European banks. It's an extremely high amount. In terms of indices: NLB index 98, for example, in Ireland this index is 10, in Portugal 43 and in the New Bank of Credit 235, if we do not take into account the conversion of certain loans, in Abank 141. Is this state money, taxpayers' money, safe in these state banks? That's the question now! And here we have an incestous relationship, and we're not going to get into that kind of business anywhere. There is also a responsibility to be looked at here. And if we look at responsibility, then we can't always say that because you want to look at responsibility and find out who was behind these wrong decisions in banks and then there will be less investment in Slovenian banks and then the money will go away. Look, the money's already gone. And investing in Slovenian banks until it is clear how big a bank hole or a bank crater is, so long this investment will not actually be in Slovenian banks. If you're looking at the latest research, we're behind African countries, for Rwanda, according to some of the latest research. And that's because we don't even know how to find responsibility for wrong choices, not to go hunting witches to hunt witches; far from it! Just to once draw the line and say that we are in this and this state, we need such solutions to make future generations better, not to look for witches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you. The Secretary of State has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much. As far as the position on the amendment and also the opinions on the amendment tabled is concerned, I must say that I find it difficult to say more than I have said in my first response. When we are looking for responsibility, it is my view that it is the task of legislation to empower those authorities responsible for identifying certain types of responsibilities to lead these procedures, but not to impose new and new supervisory institutions with inconsistent rules under which certain supervisory functions are to be performed, but, in fact, they cannot, due to the very lack of consistency and inconsistencies of the procedures, in fact. I was directly asked why the bill does not contain a sanction for liability, for the situation in which the banking system is located. The purpose of the bill is to regulate procedures that must be carried out in exceptional cases where an individual bank has to be resolved with State money in order to influence the entire banking or financial system and lays down the procedures under which and in what order state money can be engaged. However, the responsibility for the individual actions of the administration is defined either through misdemeanours when it comes to questions of this management, or formal obligations, that the Administration or the Supervisory Board has to the supervisors. More important, however, are the criminal offences defined by criminal law and simply cannot be defined by individual sectoral laws. The penalties are also laid down in the Code of Penalties in cases which are defined or in cases that have been the subject of today's debate. If the bank’s management finds that there is any suspicion that a criminal offence has occurred in a particular case, it shall have the power, on the basis of this amendment of the law, to submit the data to the competent authorities, the court, the State Prosecutor’s Office or the police, that those supervisory authorities may carry out further measures. I find it difficult to comment on a letter from one European institution to another European institution, but it is undeniably true that, in accordance with the Treaty establishing or the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Commission is the one responsible for assessing the admissibility of State aid. State aid measures have an impact on the functioning of the internal market and all Member States have committed themselves by signing these two treaties to comply with State aid rules and to implement them in practice. If not gradually in line with the European Commission's direction of 1 August 2014, pardon 2013, we cannot count on the measures to be taken or completed, as we have already begun to adopt them, to be completed under the law on measures to remedy the banking system, these measures simply could not be completed. With regard to the question of why we should not combine this with actual information as to the value of the so-called bad claims, we must say that one is the concrete data needed to implement concrete measures, in concrete cases, and the other is the creation of a legal environment that allows us to solve these concrete measures at all. If we waited for specific data on the so-called bank hole, then today the law on state measures to remedy the banking system would not have been adopted. When comparing the proposed solutions to bankruptcy, let me stress that the proposed solutions are actually aimed at preventing bankruptcy and therefore the proposed solutions are, if we are to draw parallels, more like the process of forced settlement, a specific process of forced settlement than bankruptcy. I also cannot agree with the argument that the investment values of these owners will be over-valued or zeroed by subordinated and hybrid securities; they are more risky investments that make them more profitable in these investments; and therefore investors have a different knowledge of their investment strategy or policy than ordinary investors. And it is by no means a measure imposed overnight, but by a well-defined and well-known procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you. It's still an interest in the debate. You have a replica. But it's 23 seconds available. Mr. Shircel, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much. As far as we wouldn't have a law governing the Banks Claims Management Company if we didn't have one of these [[sign for the end of the debate]] data. Of course, I can't agree with that. After all, it's from 1. 8. The European Commission has laid down some new rules for Slovenia, mainly because it has received poor data.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? More. I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u70	Your Honor, hello. Madam Secretary of State said that we are establishing a legal framework so that institutions can operate. I wonder why these institutions have not worked so far, but we do have a number of laws that could prevent everything that has happened so far. Why didn't the control councils work? Why did Banka Slovenije not work properly? And how can I believe and trust that it will be different from now on? If I believed that, then we wouldn't need this disclosure of all those who were lending and who are now being protected by anonymity. But this is what our citizens require, this is what the public requires, because they no longer trust in these institutions, which should have prevented or cured it before. That's why the public wants to take this into their own hands, and they want to know who did it, why we have to pay it again. If I had believed that these institutions responsible would have done otherwise from now on, then I would have supported this law. However, I will support this amendment, which we are now talking about, which I think is right to find out and that appropriate measures have been taken. In view of this, I regret to say that the ruling parties are in many ways or in many ways linked to the loans they have given, which have benefited from these loans, and therefore I find it difficult to believe that this law will not protect anyone again, or that it will not be established who are the real culprits and who are the ones who now want to hide it. If I trusted the institutions, then I wouldn't have a problem voting for this law at all, and that's how I have it, and I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Today, we have listened to quite a few incredible words from this temple, from the mistrust of the unfaithful Tomaž, who keeps sticking out of this box and telling us how nothing really works in this country. But to me, there's always the same question over and over again. On this side we saw quite a few MPs who were ministers; not a little time, not a month, two, three, five — a few years! We have quite a few Members and Members, who were also secretaries of state, not for a little time, for a little while. So long that everything they want to implement today with this unfortunate amendment could be put into effect a long time ago. They didn't. Why? Because they don't want to rehabilitate the banking system? No, I don't believe this, they don't hope to say it out loud because they themselves know it's absolutely necessary. But for another reason — because they refused to sign themselves under the fact that they would be the only ones in Europe and the only ones in the world who would accept such foolishness. That's the key problem. Today, when you are in opposition, you are forcing us to accept something that is completely at odds with the whole logic of democracy in Europe, if I limit myself to this place alone. You would like to bring in because you are always discussing in this direction that you do not believe in institutions that work I ask myself, because one year ago or half a year ago you believed in these institutions, but you were in the government! [[...]] And you had all the instruments, the levers of power to do it! You had a majority in the National Assembly, you had a direct look at the data that the government can and can operate on. And you didn't do it, you just didn't do it! I'm really dismayed when you say you don't believe in the institutions that operate in this country today. Do you know what you're doing? You are doing this by further deepening the mistrust of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in these institutions, because this is what you repeat. You know, as long as my neighbor says that, it's no big deal. When the former minister, the former minister, the former secretary of state says so, he starts to worry about where we came from in the National Assembly! You really want to bring this amendment – let's be clear about what you want! You want what the authorities in this country have to do by existing legislation to bring to various investigative committees to experience what you've been doing for 20 years! Tell me one investigative committee that led to a positive conclusion and then we changed something in this country and it even started to work better! Tell me one trial that ran on the basis of an investigative committee and then it was successful and I don't know how good! He wasn't here! All you want to do is have political populism and essentially create ignorance of citizens in this direction when you say you want to hunt thieves. You use the same names all of a sudden. Mr. Bokovic said, you're hiding, I don't know, Yankovice and the like. Tell me who else we're hiding! Say it out loud! Let's press charges! Launch procedures! We need to come up with arguments, we need to come up with facts. In this country, we have to get used to who's doing something in the country, not something kind. With such an amendment, I apologize, we're going to the madfield. You want to turn the National Assembly into everything, into a court, into a police, into a prosecution, you want to judge here, go witch hunting, leave the institutions to carry out their duties! [[...]] It is not true that nothing is happening in the country anymore! That's not true! If we could say that ten years ago, we can't say that again today. Things are going on, procedures are going on, and certain decisions are coming from the courts. If we still say that there is no such thing — it is true that many times we say that we are not satisfied with what they have decided. But then we have to decide what to do in this society. This amendment you have proposed simply cannot be accepted. You propose: "Members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board shall transmit the information referred to in Article 214......" Article 214 makes it very clear which data should be – "... of this law, if the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, and this data needs the National Assembly, the Staff of the National Assembly or the Investigation Commission of the National Assembly." If today you know what you're looking for and what you'd like to have, certain data can be obtained by these authorities today, they just have to elaborate and tell you what they want. But the problem is, they don't know, or else I'll say, you don't know. And you want some kind of mailbox to happen to you, and I don't know how many documents, some data you won't even know what to do in the end. There are authorities in this country who are going to do something about it. That's why this part, the third paragraph of your amendment, is completely unacceptable! Totally. And this seduction and it's always the same repetition that something is hiding and that something is repeating. Once again, not because of you, because you know this, because of the Slovenian public – you were ministers, you were secretaries of state, you had all the leverage and the kind of goats you are now proposing, you did not propose at the time. You know why not. Because you'd be ashamed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Visjak, I'm afraid you don't have the time. Uh, procedurally, yes, please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u74	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Look, I expect that in such performances, where a Member addresses and asks Members, with a clear awareness that this Group of Members has no more time to discuss and that it cannot respond and has misused this opportunity to attack the Group of Members, in particular the Slovenian Democratic Party, to warn Members that it cannot and cannot accuse and ask us which is simply not enough time. Ambassador Möderndorfer is so skilled that he deliberately did so by addressing a whole set of questions that the question book cannot even answer. This is a performance, esteemed Mr Möderndorfer, for the public, which you went through, and you yourself know that the Governor of Banka Slovenije spoke as early as April this year that the Slovenian banking system is stable, that everything is in the best order and that panic is over. Only by the arrival of Jazbec has there been a lot of activity in this Slovenian banking area overnight, apparently at least with regard to the notification that it has changed on the outside and that we feel more than necessary to inform the parliamentary labour commissions and committees of this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you. Make sure there's no confusion about the debates. Each parliamentary group shall schedule its own time and, if it has previously spent it, this is a matter of organisation in the debates; otherwise, I cannot limit the controversy in this part, because the debate is also intended to do so. However, Mrs Ludmila Novak took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u76	Mr. Möderndorfer, you requested arguments, you demanded facts. The facts are clear, there is a big financial hole in all banks, so this is the biggest argument why we want this amendment, because the rule of law does not work, because those authorities that are responsible have not acted from the administrations of the supervisory councils because the Bank of Slovenia has not done its job, so they have not done what they should do responsiblely, and this is a big enough argument. And also: at the time I was in the government, when I was a minister, we always heard, "No, you can't know that, but that's bank secrecy, you can't know that." We were responsible, but we couldn't and we couldn't find out who had caused these problems. If we want to change this once, then we must finally change the law, and let it be such that those responsible for it, those who assume such responsible functions, have the opportunity to act, but not to bear the impressions – I am guilty too, and I have nothing to do with it – but to do nothing because we have no data.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I also invite you to report for discussion. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The honourable Member said, of course, that there is no possibility and that the rule of law does not work. There's only one thing I'm going to warn you about. What you have before you, and it is also right to say out loud, the existing 12th and 13th articles of this Act very clearly say, "the extraordinary management shall submit to the Bank of Slovenia a financial position report within two months of appointment and a report on the conditions of operation of the bank in the emergency office. The Extraordinary Administration shall immediately report to the Bank of Slovenia on all relevant circumstances affecting the operating conditions of the Bank during the emergency management period and the achievement of the objectives of the emergency measures." Furthermore, "The Extraordinary Administration must inform the Bank of Slovenia, the Anti-Corruption Commission and the law enforcement authorities without delay of any suspected corruption offences detected or reported in its work." What else? Tell me, what else? Should I be writing along with the National Assembly, and I don't know what else? I ask you kindly, but somewhere it has to end, and there is no European country. That's all this is about. And this is where my previous debate was going, and you know it. I warned you if you wanted to have such an amendment, you had the opportunity with the majority in the National Assembly, with the reference to an extraordinary meeting, with the preparation of the text and with the acceptance of the government and with the procedure of such an amendment adopted. Well, you didn't. Because you knew it wasn't working.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the time of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the law on environmental protection by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I will give the floor to the representative of the Government, who is also joining us in the Chamber at this time. The word has magic. Andrea Jerina, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Good-bye. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act contains some amendments and additions to the current Environmental Protection Act, which are mainly necessary for the transposition or completion of certain Directives of the European Union. The European Commission has already issued written measures against the Republic of Slovenia on account of the timely transfer. Amendments and additions are also necessary in order to adapt the law to the requirements of the European Commission, as justified by this in the pre-trial proceedings, and to comply with the judgment of the Court. The bill also brings some other adjustments and improvements to the text of the current law, including the establishment of a Council for Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection as a consultative body of the Ministry on the basis of the already well-established practice we have in the field of agriculture. The proposed amendments will bring about the transposition of the Industrial Emissions Directive, we are talking about comprehensive environmental pollution prevention and control, where the transposition deadline is already January of this year. This Directive renews the Directive of 2008 and the six other existing Directives. All these directives have already been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the Environmental Protection Act and certain implementing rules. For this reason, the transposition of the Directive entails a relatively small change in the existing arrangements for installations which may cause environmental pollution of a larger scale. The so-called IPPC device. For this is the preparation of a baseline report for certain devices, a more detailed arrangement in the event of termination of the installation, an adjustment of the device within four years of the publication of the BAT conclusions. These amendments also require the adaptation of other articles of the law which are legally bound by the law in force. This is followed by the final transposition of the Directive and the amendment of the directive extending the Community scheme for greenhouse gas emission trading, where the deadline for transposition is the end of this year. The trading system is already in place and has been in operation since 2005. The new directive changes its architecture or structure slightly. The country leaves the allocation plan for emission vouchers as the predominant system for the free distribution of emission vouchers, as it is replaced by an auction as a dominant method and a so-called list of installations that can obtain a certain amount of emission vouchers free of charge from 2020 until 2027. In order to harmonise the system, a set of directly enforceable rules at EU level, which were previously within the competence of the Member States, such as the rules for the free allocation of emission allowances, the Union Registry, verification and credit of verifiers, auction of emission rights and so on, has been adopted under this Directive. Part of the Directive has already been transposed and the full transposition was not possible due to the simultaneous existence of two systems. The proposed law establishes a single system, which is also made up of directly enforceable EU rules. For the purpose of making use of the part of the funds obtained by auctioning emission vouchers, a climate fund is envisaged. The proposed amendments will also address the infringements identified by the European Commission regarding the transposition of the Directive on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, the Directive on ensuring public participation in the adoption of certain environmental plans and programmes and supplements relating to public participation and access to the rights of the Directive and the EU Directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide. In view of the Commission's requirements for the transposition of the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, the proposed law provides for a preliminary procedure for determining whether a specific environmental intervention requires an environmental impact assessment and an environmental consensus. The procedure for issuing a building permit also provides for the verification of compliance with the environmental consent conditions in the project for obtaining a construction permit. In doing so, I should point out that the transfer of the preliminary procedure, the corresponding transfer, to our legal order, is a prerequisite for Slovenia to be entitled to draw on the funding from the 2014-2020 programming period, as well as about a thousand projects that we now have in implementation in the current financial perspective. [[....]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] a proposal for a preliminary procedure. Due to the Commission's requirements for the transposition of the Directive on the provision of public services, the conditions for obtaining the status of a non-governmental organisation acting in the public interest are simplified. The proposed amendments will also allow for faster enforcement of the October 2010 judgment of the Court of Justice, by which the Court found that the Republic of Slovenia had not issued all environmental permits for the then existing IPPC devices by the deadline of October 2007. Finally, the bill also contains the establishment of the Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection Council as the consultative body of the Ministry responsible for the environment and some improvements in inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. The committee report will be presented by Vice-President Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u82	Dear President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection as a working body at its 26th session 28. Ten. 2013 Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Council of State, the Legal and Legislative Service, the advocacy centre for information, cooperation and development of NGOs and Plan B for Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a number of specific comments to the article of the bill and was taken into account in the amendments of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. The Committee received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the proposal for a law. The draft law was tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group, the PS Group and the SD within the time limit of business, and the members of the Committee received written proposals from the SDS Group on the amendment of the Committee. The Committee also received proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Advocacy Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs and Plan B for Slovenia as additional material. In accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also sent to the local communities. By the end of the deadline, that's up to 25. Ten. 2013 none of the local communities forwarded an opinion to the National Assembly. In the context of the discussion under each article, the members of the Committee paid the highest attention to Articles 72 and 73 of the draft law. With regard to Article 72, which deals with the area of chimney services, both coalition and opposition Members agreed that the current system of chimney services was inadequate and that it was necessary to take measures to improve the situation in this area, so that it would benefit and satisfy both consumers and operators. In particular, it is pointed out that the chimney service is closely linked to the fire safety which is under the jurisdiction of the municipalities and is solely the responsibility of the mayors. Therefore, the abandonment of chimney services to a fully free market could jeopardise the fire safety segment. This issue would point out to the extent that the State by means of a sub-law would transfer the implementation of this activity back to the local level by providing municipalities with a way to regulate the implementation of fire safety. Accordingly, the SDS Group has proposed to the Committee that it adopt its amendment to allow for a more detailed regulation of this matter to be left to the sub-legislative acts. The Committee voted on this amendment but did not adopt it. With regard to Article 73 of the draft law establishing the Council for Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection as the consultative body of the Minister responsible for the environment and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group to this article proposing the deletion of this consultative body, the amendments considered that there was no basis or purpose for regulating the establishment of the mandate and powers of the Council by law, since the Minister had all the powers to appoint a consultative body. In doing so, the amendment's proposing stressed explicitly that the purpose of the amendment is not to reduce the powers of representatives of non-governmental organisations, professions and other active institutions to participate in this world. It is also noted that in the debates on the abolition of the Environmental Protection Council, it has already been pointed out that the Council acted at a level too academic, unsuited to the needs, with disproportionately high costs of its operation in terms of its effectiveness. There is therefore a fear that it will be the same with the newly established Council for Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection. It also raises the question of what will happen to the Council, whose term of office will last for five years with the possibility of reappointment in the event that the mandate of the Minister will be shorter than the term of office of the Government. In the case of another government or minister, the mandate of the Council or its composition will be reduced. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified all amendments to the amendments tabled and adopted by the SPs and SDs, but did not adopt any amendments to the PS SDS. Nor did the Committee adopt the SDS Group's proposals with amendments to Articles 10 and 72 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u84	Nice greetings to all present! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act. It is true that much of the law is designed to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the European legal order, but the law also brings two substantive innovations. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased that the Law will set up a Council for Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection, which, as the consultative body of the Minister for the Environment, will contribute to better prepared environmental policies. In particular, the proposed composition of the Council, the six environmental experts proposed by the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, the four representatives of NGOs and the four representatives of the economy proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, is a guarantee that environmental policies will be prepared professionally and in dialogue with all stakeholders. Another key thing we will gain from this law is the regulation of the chimney service. With today's amendment, which is the product of a major consensus of all parliamentary parties, we are introducing a deregulation of chimney activity. With this, smoking will no longer be a compulsory state economic service. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will also adopt a new Law on Environmental Protection with amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government with the Secretary, Members, Members of Parliament! The main purpose and purpose of the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act is to transpose the European directives into the Slovenian legal order. By coordinating Slovenian legislation with Europe in this area, we are again late and are facing high penalties. Some of the infringements identified by the European Commission will also be resolved with the solutions in the novel. The law establishes the Council for Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection as the consultative body of the Minister responsible for the environment. The amendment of the law also brings some improvements in inspection. However, the important amendment introduced by this Act, if the amendment to Article 72 and to Article 91 are, of course, adopted, is to amend the system of chimney activity, which is deleted from the list of mandatory national economic services, Article 148, paragraph 5, which is the implementation of measurements, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts for the protection of the environment and the efficient use of energy, the protection of human health and the protection against fire. I'll be back to this darkness in the end. The proposed amendments to the law will address, among others, the infringements identified by the European Commission regarding the transposition of the Industrial Emissions Directive, the Directive on the Community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, the Directive on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, the Directive on ensuring public participation in the adoption of specific environmental plans and programmes and supplements relating to public participation and access to justice, and the EU Directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide. The adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure will contribute to the speedy resolution of these infringements of EU law and reduce the possibility of the European Commission stepping up proceedings against Slovenia and not to press charges for fines or that the court will not issue a judgment on the payment of fines. If I go back to the chimney business again. The amendment provides for the removal of chimney activity from the list of mandatory state economic services. In the Civil Gazette, which basically proposed such a solution and was confirmed by all coalition parties, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, as it appeared on the Committee, also by opposition Members who presented a very similar amendment, i.e. the SDS party to the bill, we are therefore convinced, together with the multi-year calls of citizens, that obvious anomalies, poor will and prosecutions in the chimney courts after almost ten years must be completed. The proposal for an amendment for the new 91st Article also lays down transitional provisions, which means that the current situation will not change immediately, as the Ministry must establish a new transparent and market-friendly system in which both smokers and users of their services will be satisfied, as well as concessions, in accordance with the amendment, must be terminated during the transitional period. We will also be happy to support the proposal of the law in the Civil Gazette or, in particular, because of the latter. We are also pleased with the great support of at least those parties who announced this at yesterday's committee meeting, as well as the support of the minister, who, as we saw in the media yesterday, took this solution for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, representatives of the Ministry, Government, I welcome you! The Environmental Protection Act was last amended in the National Assembly last year, 15 months ago. Like now, we changed it by emergency. Let me remind you that then, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, the current Minister for Agriculture and the Environment has strongly opposed the urgent procedure. In fact, he said that they had agreed to respect the views of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which then publicly pointed out the inadequacy of the procedures for amending environmental and spatial legislation following an urgent procedure. He also pointed out, quote, that "it is essential that they be held, put in public debate, set clear deadlines and prepare substantive justifications for individual solutions". Mag. In the position of the Group of Social Democrats, he referred to this opinion. Let me read part of the magnetogram of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of July 2012: "It is not disputed that amendments to legislation in the field of environmental regulation, space and agriculture in some parts are even necessary, as existing solutions are flawed, and of course it is clear that we have to remove bureaucratic obstacles. In doing so, it should be stressed that these changes must be conceived and, above all, adopted in a transparent manner, both in terms of cross-cutting coordination and in terms of facilitating public debate." He went on to say: "The Commission, through its procedures, notes that the regulation of the environment and the space goes both to the state and, in particular, to the local level, to a corruption-specific area in which many private interests and lobbying operate. At the same time, it is an environment and an area of concern where there is a strong public interest, as it is a matter of long-term issues related to clean drinking water, living space, land processing and the like. It is the duty of the State to manage and safeguard public interest. By means of a way and approach to amending these laws... " – the urgency procedure is meant – "this duty is not fulfilled in the opinion of the Commission. At the same time, such conduct is not in the spirit of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption." Now, honourable Members and Members, we ask ourselves in the Slovenian People's Party: What has changed so important this year that the Minister and the party of the Social Democrats can thus forget their commitments, since they have not only strongly opposed the changes of the law one year ago through the urgent procedure, they have made a clear promise that they will respect the Commission's already-mentioned opinion on preventing corruption, which has not changed in the meantime, at least as far as we know. And let me give you another interesting comparison. Last year's amendment to the Environmental Protection Act included an amendment to the six articles and the one we are considering today has 83 articles. Some of these even refer to a number of legal articles so that at least 100 articles are amended by this amendment. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will not go into the content of the changes. We believe they are necessary and appropriate. However, we are convinced that with so much change, the urgency of the procedure is indeed a problem this time. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would support the proposal of the law if it were to follow a regular procedure, because we believe that there are so many changes in which the content has to be written thoughtfully and in the cooperation of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u89	The next one has the word mag. Jana Jenko, who will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! With amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, Slovenian legislation is in line with European legislation. The adoption of the proposed law will help to eliminate infringements of EU law as quickly as possible and reduce the possibility that the European Commission will step up proceedings against Slovenia and will not press charges for fines. The maximum penalty for any infringement found by the Court is up to EUR 36,000 per day, from the date of the infringement to the time of the infringement, and the lump sum may amount to up to EUR 2 million 900 000, which is very large. For example, the draft law will facilitate NGOs in obtaining the status of a non-governmental organisation acting in the public interest. Instead of five years of operation, three years will be required, and there is also no longer any condition that it has to operate in the whole country. Such a solution also follows the European Commission's request to transpose the Directive on ensuring public participation in the adoption of certain plans and programmes. In view of the European Commission's requirements for the transposition of the Directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, the proposed law also provides for a preliminary procedure for determining whether an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus is necessary for a given environmental intervention. However, the procedure for issuing the building permit provides for the verification of compliance with the environmental consent requirements of the construction permit project. The amendment of the law leaves the predominant state plan for free allocation of emission vouchers in the greenhouse gas emission trading system as it is replaced by an auction as a dominant method. The Ministry shall draw up a list of devices that can obtain a certain amount of emission vouchers free of charge by 2020 and even by 2027. The funds generated by auctioning emission vouchers are expected to be the revenue of the Climate Fund as the country's budget fund. The funds will be used in accordance with the programme to be adopted by the Government and will include the implementation of measures related to climate change. However, as regards the storage of carbon dioxide, the proposed law provides that geological storage of carbon dioxide is prohibited throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, let me touch on the establishment of the Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection Council as the consultative body of the Minister responsible for the environment. At first, in the DeSUS Group, we did not agree with the creation of the world, since we had abolished a similar world in June last year. We opposed its establishment in particular from the point of view of the costs it would entail, but the ministry has listened to our warnings, which means that members will not be eligible for meetings. Since the Council will consist of representatives of the academic sphere, non-governmental environmental organisations and economies, which will unify their positions before the drafting of the legislative acts, we in the DeSUS Group have decided to support the establishment of the proposed Council. As a result, every time environmental legislation changes, we are Members of Parliament under pressure from individuals and their interests, and we expect them to regulate it at Council level from now on. In the DeSUS Group, we are also pleased to see the issue of chimneys finally being addressed. The proposed amendments to the coalition deal with the issue of chimney concessions in a way that provides an adequate prior period for the establishment of a new model of chimney management, which has been plagued for years by the many uncertainties that some have used for excessive earnings. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported by the bill and the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u92	Your Honor! The new law is very extensive and regulates complex areas within the comprehensive regulation of environmental protection. The proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, gives detailed reasons for each proposed solution, mainly by the necessity of transferring the European acquis into Slovenian legislation, by preventing the consequences of the threatening financial penalty to the Republic of Slovenia and by removing some bureaucratic obstacles. In New Slovenia, we believe that national environmental policy must be based on prevention and on the principle that the polluter must pay. In a market economy that is environmentally acceptable, we must be aware that natural raw materials and energy resources are limited. At the same time, the environmental costs and costs of the consequences must be clearly shared. In principle, we support state and interstate arrangements and plans to improve environmental protection and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but the Ministry's arguments at yesterday's debate at the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment are not convincing enough for us. In New Slovenia, we believe that the establishment of new institutions, i.e. the Council for Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection, does not make sense in these times. We impose additional costs and procedures, which do not bring added value in terms of environmental protection, instead of stronger and more efficient public administrations. When we visit places and people in Slovenia with the New Slovenia Group, by economicists, large and small, the most comments on the slow red tape and non-life work of the Slovenian Environment Agency are made. This is precisely why we are distrustful of the proposed solutions in this novel, which do not provide us with assurance that environmental assessment procedures can be simplified and accelerated for the benefit of all stakeholders. We are thinking similarly about the proposed solutions in the area of chimney service, where there has been no progress for years. Regrettably, however, the proposer gave the opportunity to adjust the new area accordingly in the direction of European comparability. Due to all the shortcomings mentioned above, the New Slovenia Group will not support the novels of the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Velikonja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u94	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! With amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, we are correcting in the Slovenian legal order some of the infringements identified by the European Commission regarding the transposition of the Industrial Emissions Directive, the Directive on the Community scheme for greenhouse gas emission trading, the Directive on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, the Directive on ensuring public participation in the adoption of certain plans and programmes, and the Directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide by the European Community. The adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure will contribute to the elimination of these violations of European Union law and thus reduce the possibility for the European Commission to issue a judgment in proceedings against Slovenia by paying fines. As a novelty and essential quality of the law, enhanced inspection supervision is to be commended. So far, inspectors have followed the provisions of the General Inspection Act and the novel introduces innovations specifically designed to protect the environment. An inspection plan institute shall be established, which shall be drawn up by an environmental inspection, in relation to installations as potential pollutants of a greater scope. Inspectors will have to assess the risks and decide on this basis on the frequency of inspections of these facilities and installations. The bill also includes the police and customs authorities in the inspection, as there is sometimes a need for rapid action and the police are undoubtedly responsive and swift. The establishment of the Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection Council as the consultative body of the Minister responsible for environmental protection is also welcome. The world must be independent and independent at work, and it will work in public. He will address and adopt views, give opinions and initiatives to the Minister, in particular on the state of environmental protection and sustainable development at home and abroad. Environmental protection concerns all areas of human activity that burden and destroy living space in the long term. That is why we must also support the policy of social development, which will allow long-term conditions for human health, well-being and quality of life by preserving biodiversity. We must not forget that we have borrowed our living space from our grandchildren. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the amendment and supplementation of the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Furthermore, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, which will be presented by Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u96	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Environmental Protection Act has indeed been thoroughly and thoroughly processed. We support the provisions necessary to remedy a number of violations of European Union law in the field of environmental protection. Furthermore, the law itself does not follow the simplification of procedures for reducing red tape and more effective legislation. As a result, we have tabled amendments that delete unnecessary pre-trial procedures and reduce deadlines. We are opposed to a provision that excludes the silence of the Authority, so we are proposing that the provisions of the Construction Act, which provides that consent has been given if it has not been issued within the time limit, be applied to the issue of a building permit. We also propose that there is no need to obtain environmental consent for buildings for which there is no need to obtain a building permit. It makes no sense that the document in force, such as the environmental agreement, has a period of validity. By prolonging this, we are only strengthening bureaucracy, so we propose that the environmental consensus is valid for the duration of the operation of the device to which this consent relates. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, I do not believe that the current system of chimney services is adequate and it is essential to take measures to improve the situation in this area. There is a great deal of irregularity to be understood from the Court of Auditors' report, and we propose that the law also regulates the responsibility of officials and other offenders. We know cases of damage in case of organ silence. We also suggest that the consultative bodies proposed by the Minister do not belong to the law itself, because it is already its legitimate competence and does not need to be included in the law. Thus, the decision to support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will depend on taking into account our proposals and the way in which chimney services are regulated, including, of course, sub-legislative acts – while also regulating price chimney tariffs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are now moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. First of all, I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'll give you a chance to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two panellists reported. We are discussing Article 10 of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tomaž Lisec is the first to be reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ministry representatives, colleagues, colleagues! Much has been said about the law itself in the views of the parliamentary groups. However, since we are in front of an institute that introduces a preliminary procedure into consideration, the Slovenian Democratic Party believes that it is an unnecessary, stalling process. Only if we read Article 1 of this Act, which states that "the environment operator must require the Ministry to determine whether environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus are necessary for the intended intervention." In short, some new procedure. We all know that even if it were beautifully written here in theory, we know how it would come in practice. All those who are now meeting or meeting at local or national level with some procedures, especially this, i.e. environmental impact assessments, we know that they are, I could say, rakrana to future projects, especially in the area of infrastructure. In short, we propose that this Article be deleted in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is a matter of delay, even though the Ministry's representative said earlier how great this law is. Yes, we really need to behave rationally in certain segments, so that we can escape the penalties of the European Commission or the European directives, but here I think we are not only more papal than the pope, but even more awkward than we were in the past. In short, this Article 10 on the preliminary procedure will by no means solve the problem of projects, the issue of investment. Even more so, if we are looking at the whole 51.a. and 51.b., which are talking about the preliminary procedures for the preparation of State spatial plans, this is a state administration's goal here in the field of the Ministry of the Environment. I have to say, I can afford to be quite skeptical and critical of this department. I've been monitoring this facility for eight years. The last time a colleague texted me what he would do with it, not just the Directorate, but with this area of the environment – perhaps if he said it out loud now, he would get some kind of criminal complaint. In short, new administration, new burdens, new documentation will have to be prepared, new administration. In short, nothing about what is essentially meant to be the preparation of state and municipal spatial plans and all investments to facilitate procedures for people without exacerbating them. This is especially dangerous because it says, the government prescribes a series of interventions, etc. In short, we're going to get to the submarital acts and in the end something will happen again that has happened many times. We can adopt a law with the best goals, the best content, and even for the best of purposes, and in the end, with all due respect to government officials, we come up with some sub-laws, probably regulations or some rule that – I will say – not only distort the purpose of the law, but also spoil it. Only if officials refer to the fifth paragraph of Article 51a, which states that "the Ministry shall issue a decision within two months on the findings referred to in the first paragraph of this Article". I must say that I was involved as an expert member of the SDS Group when we — I think in 2006 — prepared the Spatial Planning Act, where the Minister of the Professional Service was enriched by the fact that within two years all the municipalities would have municipal spatial plans. That was, I think, in 2006. Your Honor! We are in 2013 and how many municipalities have municipal spatial plans? I think if I say a quarter, I'm about to hit, a third of them definitely don't. So in two months. And what if he's not in these two months? At least in the area of chimney hunting, we would have tried to save some of it with the silence of the body, but this is where the ministry went to the other side. In fact, I think it has now been said on the Committee, referring to the European Directive, that the silence of the Authority is no longer considered as a positive consensus, but must come to any paper or documentation by the Authority. In short, if there's not two months, which I guarantee, as I do here, there will certainly be no such thing in all proceedings, nothing will be done, no minister will be guilty, no secretary of state will be guilty, no official will be guilty, no official will be guilty, and people will wait and be bent over the country as it does nothing. They will probably turn to the judicial branch of power when they come to them, when they come to them with concrete cases and problems in our parliamentary offices with such paper and documentation, how the state has failed to do something, and when we try to raise this with a question of the Member State, if it comes to any targeted content, even with which the competent committee must meet, we will be given the answer: "No, respectable, but for this it is the branch of the judiciary, and we must not interfere with the Assembly, Members and Government." In short, in this article I hope for some sobriety at least of those who have ever worked at the municipal level, if you have not already worked in any public service, let us not complicate our lives without need. Practice, we know what she's like. I'm just going to give an example of windshields and some environmental problem that we have in Slovenia. It reads: "A complaint against the decision may be lodged by a non-governmental organisation in addition to the carrier of the intended intervention in the environment." With all due respect for NGOs, but personally I have very poor experience with certain NGOs when they do not play their professional role, but they play a more political moment or involve themselves with some political content and little of what remained of these processes in the field of the environment, in the area of space – we all know how good we were when we adopted the Law on Space Planning, the Law on Construction. And what it is now – it's mostly all there is. But not only because of the money that is not there and it is getting smaller and smaller, but mainly because of the provisions of the articles that we introduce into the law, but then, as I said before, comes to the second level of government regulations, where officials make a miniscule, that there is nothing feasible in the end. In short, we cannot support this Article in the SDS. We have proposed the deletion of this article, and we hope that, above all, the coalition Members will attract us, because I believe that they will soon meet, if not with any problem in real life, and with some man who will sail into their office and ask for help, but the assistance will not be feasible, because we are unnecessarily bureaucratic with such articles and with such a text in the article. But I don't think that's the purpose of this government, but even less of us, the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I will continue with what my colleague, Lisec, discussed. I do not know exactly what the consequences of deleting this Article would be, but as envisaged, it continues all the long-term procedures that we have known so far in the preparation of a project, a spatial act or some state investment, where the procedures are so long, so long as something is impossible. That's how we put the highway in Dolenjska for 15 years, we know what's wrong with the second track. When we were Members of Parliament, on the ground, we heard from a farmer that he had been given a water permit after nine years to irrigate the orchard. And these are all procedures that do nothing to make us faster at work, especially by the state authorities. If this is what the European Commission has asked us to do, as we have been explained, some preliminary procedures, then I wonder if we want to help our economy and this policy, to reach or reverse the trend of economic growth, or if European regulation will prevent us from doing so if they have such rules that we need to summarise, that we must take into account all operators of space regulation as they have so far, and the procedures will be as long, then I do not see any recovery. And it is also likely from officials who are too many at individual ministries and authorities, other state authorities. It's probably in the best interest of everyone to stay alive, work the old ways, but we're not going anywhere. Let me just say that this fifth paragraph of Article 51a, when it says that "the Ministry of the Establishment referred to in the first paragraph of this Article shall issue a decision within two months of receipt of the full request". Do you know what a perfect request is? Sometimes a requirement needs to be completed ten times and takes several years. Only then is the request complete and based on it then issued within two months. Sometimes the comma is a problem, sometimes instead of the "earth" it is necessary to write a "finger" as was the case with a congregation, but the matter was rejected because the official so decided. Or around the study he chooses options for the state location plan. I know the case of the lower leg of the highway when it was done at least three times in a few years. How much money it took! No one at the time wondered how much the studies cost, how much they cost, since they probably all responded to the delay in construction. Finally, when there was to be a hurry, however, it happened that there was a pile of irregularities, a shedding of money away, because there was a hurry, and that was greatly contributed by the very authorities that were delaying something. Of course, every month it's five in the month you pay, whether you do something or you don't. So far, no one's answered anything. We also propose an amendment that once the state officials start to answer for something. Of course, neither the ministers answer, nor the secretaries of state answer, what will be the only answer! This brings about the fact that the economy is desperate that there is no new investment, that there is no investment, that there is no foreign investment, and in the end we will find that there is no money in the budget, but it will all be too late. We therefore propose that this Article be deleted. It has been said, however, that the Ministry will draw up a system law, but now we have to adopt a change in the law by emergency procedure, even though, as a colleague from the People's Party earlier said, it is changing as many as 100 articles of this law by emergency procedure, which is probably not necessary, but only where the European Community is threatening to punish us. However, there is a willingness to attach something to this mandate quickly so that it can be carried out quickly, and it is then found to have serious consequences. We therefore propose that this Article be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word was also wanted by the representative of the Government, Mrs Mag. Andrej Jerin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The environmental impact assessment in Slovenia or Europe is regulated in the way that most infrastructure projects already need an environmental impact assessment. However, a certain set of these projects falls below a certain threshold. The professional question is whether if you are a little below the threshold, there are no environmental impacts, but if you are above the threshold, there are environmental impacts. The purpose of the regulation on prior assessments within the European Union is to essentially remove this threshold regime and to see whether this project actually affects the environment or not. I can tell you a specific case. The question raised yesterday when the court lifted the environmental permit for the Paper Service, which was below the threshold. Prague is 50,000 tonnes, their permit was 48 000 750 and since they were below the threshold, environmental impact assessments were not necessary. The court has now ordered them to carry out environmental impact assessments. To introduce this preliminary procedure, it is a requirement for a proper transposition of the European Directive. In doing so, however, it must be said that this is a prerequisite for Slovenia and all other Member States to correctly transpose the directive as a prerequisite to be fulfilled before 1 January 2014, if we want to draw on the European cohesion policy funds for the period 2014-2020, it is also a prerequisite for a certain number of projects – we have estimated that some of the thousands we are financing today are being looked at through this process, or perhaps we have not overlooked any adverse environmental impacts. For this reason and because of the urgency of this adoption, we propose that the proposed amendment should not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 10? He doesn't want to. I conclude this part of the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 15 and to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Does anyone want to discuss it? Opening login option. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u104	Your Honor! The purpose of the legislation is also to make legislation effective, especially in this economic situation, which is very important to make it effective and very useful in practice itself. In the amendment to Article 15, we propose that we shorten our hands from 90 to 60 days. That's what the Ministry says to decide in a short time. I believe that it takes quite some time to coordinate between the various ministries' departments, but I believe that the Ministry of Field Affairs needs to be better supplied with the database and that these coordinations with the departments will run faster. If this base, if the cadastrals and all these data are collected in one place, these procedures may also be shorter, so that there is a proposal to shorten the deadline for a decision on the environmental agreement from 90 to 60 days. Secondly, I would like to make a comment because the applicant proposes deleting paragraph 7 where it excludes the validity of the Construction Act, which provides for the silence of the body. It is my opinion that the Construction Act should be complied with and that, at the time of the issue of the building permit, consent shall be deemed to have been given unless it is given within the prescribed time limit. This means an update of the contractors of this agreement and, of course, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u105	Anybody else want to talk? Maybe the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We also oppose this amendment for two reasons. For the first time, as regards the extension of the environmental consensus, this was introduced primarily at the request of investors, at their request. As far as the body's silence is concerned, this is, unfortunately, contrary to European directives and the case-law within the EU, so we propose not to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss Article 15? I don't see a desire to discuss it. So we are moving on to the debate on Article 16 of which the Slovenian Democratic Party is the proponent. Does anyone want to discuss Article 16? Here you go, Mr. Žnidar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u108	In this article too, we propose to cut deadlines from 60 to 30 days. I would say that we are not bound here by European recommendations. These deadlines are laid down by law and by this law, and in accordance with these provisions, which we introduce into this document, these deadlines are then taken into account, so that we also propose a shorter and more up-to-date version of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? Maybe the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much. It is true that this is a matter of domestic regulation, but since this is a finding procedure, we consider that the time limits currently proposed in the law are the shortest possible way to ensure that what is also envisaged from the legislator can be carried out, so we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire for a debate? No, no, no. We are moving on to the debate on the next article, which is Article 18. The proposer is the Slovenian Democratic Party. Would anyone like to discuss it? You have a wish. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u112	This Article refers to parties in the process and in the light of the status of NGOs, of course, those acting in the public interest, and in accordance with Articles 152 to 155 of this Act, it follows that such competence, as set out in Article 64, would be exceeded by the powers arising from Article 55 of this Law. As a result, we are modifying this supplement with the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Maybe even the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Here, too, we have problems with support or we do not support in particular because such a proposal is contrary to the Aarhus Convention, the Directive on Environmental Impact Assessment and Public Participation in Environmental Procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I am now concluding the debate on this article because I no longer see desire. We are moving to the debate on Article 72 and on the amendments of the coalition and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Does anyone want to discuss Article 72? There is a desire to discuss, and I will open the debate. If you'll excuse me, please. We have four panellists registered. She's the first to be reported as a mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In the Civil Gazette, we are advocates for the abolition of the monopoly, and I am really glad that the light at the end of the tunnel can be seen by the amendment of the coalition to article 72, so that we will also severely restrict the monopoly in the area of chimneys. We Members have already discussed this issue several times in previous mandates, as well as in this mandate. Also practically weekly, we are familiar with the irregularities and dissatisfaction of citizens in this area every month. Of course, it's not like that everywhere and all over Slovenia. I've already said in one of the committee discussions if I can choose a doctor, why I can't get a chimney. And this is what I think follows the objective of the amendment to Article 72. I want all citizens and citizens to have this area regulated as we have, for example, in my congregation, Zagorje ob Savi. Above all, in those areas where citizens warn us that unpaid services are being charged, non-professional work in this area is, of course, possible to choose chimney service anywhere in Slovenia. With this amendment, we are abolishing chimneys as a compulsory economic public service, allowing the Ministry to make order in this area after 2015 when these concession contracts expire. Of course, we hope that these solutions will actually go in the direction of liberalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thanks again for saying that. This article shows, however, that I should be forgiven, all the stupidity of adopting this law by emergency procedure, when perhaps good suggestions, including in this area of so-called chimney problems, are being resolved overnight. In the SDS Group yesterday, we proposed a very similar amendment to that drafted by the coalition. We wanted to delete point 5 of this Article, which means that chimneys fall under a compulsory state economic public service and we were attacked as to how this proposal is nonconsistent and how we cannot solve anything tomorrow, etc. And look at the fraction, today the coalition is doing exactly the same thing! But there's still, I'd say, one trick, obviously. We wanted all of this to then, given that it was a necessary procedure, to regulate the sub-legislative acts and to convince the Legislative and Legal Service that we would prepare amendments to the National Assembly, where we would force the Government to take sub-legislative acts with them to join the National Assembly. Because I think that the members of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment at least agree that it is one of the few committees where we do not vote, but mostly in our solutions, at least we are looking for the agreement of all members. In short, yes, the amendment of the coalition goes into some kind of liberal system, but it goes; what happens, how we have no idea. More, until 31st. 12. 2015, according to the local word, concessionaires can do what they want, and so those good ones who have to do so can extend to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I have here – there are so many things I have received in the last eight years, including audits of the Court of Auditors and all the other nonsense about chimney law, and with this article we do not solve completely anything in the area of chimney service, we just say: up to 31. 12. 2015 will be the case as it is now, irrespective of the fact that the Court of Auditors has made very good results, which states how the Ministry is guilty, how officials are guilty, how there is no record of how local communities do not do their own. [[...]] Actually, it's nothing. In short, the prevailing situation is in 2004, when a predecessor — I have no idea what he wants — with the municipalities he has put on concessions, he has made a monopoly in this area, and probably — and I hope to say so — he has made a well-paid system for himself or apparently at least at his own level. Even so, I am being approached by the entire SDS Group, and probably also by you, the other parliamentary groups, by certain chimney concessionaires, who say that this system is not good. It's not good because that bad system doesn't sanction at all. Here we have how much of this has been done, how many procedures and finally, who answers — nothing! The smokers who are at fault do not answer with anything, the officials who joyfully support it do not respond with anything and with today’s amendment drafted by the coalition, nor do we resolve it. Therefore, I say that the urgency of this law was a mistake. I must say that I am also very surprised at the lack of response of the congregations to the whole marriage – we have already proposed some amendments, including in the area of chimneys. I think that the congregations have a lot of problems in practice in this area, so I have to say that in this area I am a little concerned about the lack of response of the congregations, but that is how it is. In short, the irresponsibility of all ministers, let's be fair to all ministers. In particular, in the years 2008 to 2011, I have read very carefully the Court of Auditors' audit of what has not been done just to see what has been done. I'm going to say it looked like a bad girl, where everything was seen, but nothing grumbled. And we're not doing anything about it. While our amendment to the committee was well-meaning. We said that it was no longer a public economic service – although it was interesting that yesterday the minister said that they would try to introduce a German model, about to be a compulsory state economic service, but we will open it. Not a completely liberal system, which I think may even be dangerous, we know, fire protection – just look at what's going on in the last few days, not just in the last year. Just read the report and compare Slovenia, for example, Germany, to which system we are looking; how many fires there were in Germany, how many in Slovenia. You won't believe it, 1000% difference! There's nothing to one, I've checked with my colleagues in Germany, and every month we read in newspapers where everything was burning; there's a furnace on fire, there's another chimney, and then the guilt breaks. It's the chimney, it's the housemaid who doesn't leave them in, and no one answers. Well, those housewives are burned down, God bless her, we hope she's insured, and that's it. The concessionaire is not responding, the state is not responding. We wanted to solve this, so today we also proposed amendments, because we wanted to establish a new system after 2015 and in 2014 and 2015, when these eight-year concession contracts expire, but the concession should not be granted to a person who does not meet the prescribed conditions. It's already written, but it's not being reviewed. There is no procedure against it for the withdrawal of concessions, which means that those who have now played the system will be able to do it again because they know exactly how to do it. Those good guys who don't play him now, or they don't hope for him, they won't. Or if the infringements of the concession contract have already been proven, read the Court of Auditors' audit, but the concession must not be granted to them. But I do believe that the coalition will not go in front of our proposals. Why do we think that we have taken this very seriously to take a German model, because in the second amendment to Article 72, we have written that before the adoption of the regulations, that is to say, the Government will obtain a prior opinion of the committee responsible in the National Assembly. That's what I was saying at the beginning. This is a very important area! I don't think it matters here whether you're left, right, upper, lower, ours or yours, each of us represents a certain number of residents, and each of our residents has a problem with chimneys, one way or another. I think that if we found a regulation with the consent of the National Assembly, we Members would be more transparent. This will obviously leave us again – but I do apologize to those good officials at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, but the experience is poor – to adopt sub-legislative acts, from tariffs to methods, to supply standards, technical, maintenance, organisational and other measures, etc. In short, the government will take care of everything under the law, arrange it so that the system will be re-examined in its own way, each one interprets it differently. In practice, prices are unlikely to be lower by at least this point. We have not gone in front of those who are doing well, nor have we gone in front of citizens and citizens. In short, I must say that when the representatives of the coalition, as well as the ministries at the meeting yesterday, have said how they will find a solution to benefit citizens and citizens and will have full political consensus by the meeting of the National Assembly. Last night, when we received a draft amendment, at least he was following that idea in part. However, what you have now brought, but you have essentially deleted point 5 below paragraph 92a, which you have opened, because otherwise the transitional and final provisions where you write are up to 31. 12. 2015 is the situation as it is, but then – then; it doesn't say anywhere! Nothing. Really, I expected a lot. Even though we had only one day of time, we could have settled the chimney industry, but we did nothing. In particular, it is likely that because SDS amendments, which are very well-intentioned, are at least for those who in practice have little to do with smoking, they will probably not be accepted. As I said, the amendment of the coalition, with all due respect: big promises, little spoils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following debater is Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. While it is grateful to discuss it this way, especially if the viewers are on the balcony. Look, nothing is saved overnight. Yesterday on the Committee we discussed this and we had an agreement that an amendment would be prepared, which also regulates these date-frames. It is formal to apply concessions which are accepted until 12. 2015 and then this will be over by the time this – sorry, now I am a little confused, I'm sorry, until 31. 12. The present concessions are still in force. And that's normal. You know how much it costs to break down concession contracts. The debate that those who received concessions did not need to meet the conditions and so on – I do not know where this information came from. However, if we had great debates with chimneys and a lot of agreements, it makes sense. The interests are huge, and I think we are going in the right direction now, which was also agreed on yesterday by the Committee and consensus that we will now extend this regulated protection. It's about controlling everything that's connected to the chimneys. It's not just smoke, it's exhaust gas, environmental protection, consumer health and so on. All this costs, this concern, and it's in this amendment, too. Look, the fires are really lining up and comparing why it is somewhere else, why else, we could discuss it, but we have a lot of problems, our territory is like it is. You know that the concessionaire was most easily taken over by one area of the city, not by the countryside, when you have to drive 15 km away to clean one of the smoke coils or inspect the burner. That's our specifics, and we live with it, and that's what we need to survive. We certainly welcome the fact that this amendment has now opened up the possibility of finalizing relations with chimneys after 2015, with all to open this space and that we can contribute to a much greater security, less damage and to be satisfied with operators, are smokers, one and the other, and that the people who pay for these services will also be satisfied. And what has been said is that many times a person does not let a chimney into housing, but it is regulated by insurance, with everything else, when there is an accident. We know the drills. Of course, the Social Democrats will support this amendment to Article 72 and also support the entire law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Reploco wanted Mr. Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u122	The forerunner. Apparently, he's not reading that amendment you made. I never once said what happened to those concessions that were going on. I didn't say that with concessions you would just cut and say that even if you had a concession contract up to, I don't know, 8. 8. 2013, it could be sooner. No! No! Neither were all contracts signed with 1. 1. 2005. Even when it was that "mushroom" about whether it was eight years or 15 years old. Some have even recovered, the state pays certain chimneys – officials do not pay, the state pays – some stupidity of one minister and some officials from 2004. And look what you wrote down, or I say, Madam President, I hope it is not for the new 92rd paragraph, but it is in strict correlation: "In the event that the concessional relationship for the implementation of the compulsory state economic service ends before the deadline referred to in paragraph 1" – that is, before 31. 12. 2015 – "a government may grant concessions at the request of the concessionaire within the time limit referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The extension of the concession referred to in the previous Government shall be decided by a decision...", which may be extended for a maximum period of one year. You also wrote in your explanation: "The motioner considers that this period is also long enough to allow concessionaires who have obtained concessions before the application of this law and their validity will eventually expire after 31. 12. 2014, can adapt to a new relationship." Like I said, it doesn't matter whether a bad or a good concessionaire is up to 31. 12. 2015 may, even if they expire at the end of the year, be extended by one year and then by one year if the government decides by decision. No, you're not sanctioning the bad at all, then after 2015 you'll do something to everyone, bad or good, but we don't know that in this law, respected, we don't know. Yesterday, we spoke on the committee about whether we wanted or expected to align ourselves to another or possibly to the third reading of what kind of smokescreen model we wanted. And we said that by 31st. 12. 2015 concessions, then we will see. In short, the ministry has bought, with all due respect, more than two years of time, then we will probably have ten more questions sent in between, probably every year about a hundred fires in chimneys and fires, each year different conclusions on the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, but the answer will probably be the same as that of my question in the hearing of Mr Židan, how he will regulate the area of chimneys – we are thinking. The concessions are not good, previously the municipalities were, the question, if they were the best, the perfect liberal model should not be, otherwise we prefer the German model, but the answer, respected, today to the question of what model of chimney service we want in Slovenia will not get. It doesn't matter whether the chimney is bad or good, we won't get an answer today. That's bad. I think we should get an answer today, even though it's a necessary meeting. In the course of the night, we had plenty of time to think, and the coalition and the opposition and the government. But apparently you've gone along the line of least resistance, you've moved your hand, and the matter has been washed for two years, and then we'll see. It will probably be then, almost certainly then, a new government, a new minister, and the extensions of this minister and all the predecessors who have been in this area will be looking for some dry gold that we unfortunately have before us, we just don't know. The German model, the secretary of state said it was nice in Germany. No, but by 2016 we are running away and we hope that things will be settled on their own. They won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Branko Kurnjek is the next debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, once again. Nicely greeted! Yes, Mr Lisec, I agree with you, on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, constructively and in a manner of peaceful cooperation, Members, and in this spirit I would like to correct you and say what has actually happened on the Committee yesterday. Therefore, the SDS Group has tabled a proposal for an amendment to delete point 5 of Article 72, i.e. a chimney activity in order to shorten. I also told you at the time that the National Gazette also had prepared a practically identical amendment to this Article to delete point 5 and we also had prepared an amendment to article 92, where transitional provisions were also written. However, your party did not make any amendments to stay in some confused state, where such or other actions could occur in the future, if concessions were to end with a certain date. It is also true that we agreed yesterday that, to date, or that the Ministry will, on the basis of our agreement, also prepare these transitional provisions in this direction in order to avoid the actions of concessionaires, those who still have concessions and will be subject to them even after 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. But the ministry was looking for a reasonable deadline on the basis of which it can be concluded that, for example, lawsuits that may be expected by concessionaires would not succeed. I see some constructive posture here. I think that you yourself know what happens when the concession ends at some point, we can be sure that such a concessionaire is well-written when the court awards him a very large compensation. So such a proposal, as we will see later in the new Article 91a, not 92, this amendment has now been completely corrected in the end to fix this transitional period. Of course, we expect the Ministry to fully prepare a new system at this time, not only for the good of chimneys, but especially for the good of those who need chimneys. We need them all, but not when the chimney tells us when we need them, but when we really need them. I think we're such a developed society that we probably know when a chimney is needed. In this way, the whole system must be prepared, and I expect you to introduce any licenses, that not everyone will just be able to come into your home and fix you a different, or 35th model of a combustion plant, a burner, because you know what it looked like in practice. Someone comes along, something "scraufa" on your combustion machine and the next phone call you dial is a call to the repairer to come and fix the matter, to fix what was broken – if I tell you how these things work in practice. In the Civil Gazette, we would like, above all, to have the profession of chimneys re-respected and that chimney chimneys would be desirable in our homes. Yesterday, I also understood the opposition representatives or the SDS in particular, as well as the support of all coalition parties and the Ministry's support to follow this objective. Perhaps this too; also because the Civil Code prepared its amendment to Article 72, we were not co-signers, if you remember, of all the other amendments we supported, but we were not co-signers of the amendments that only SD and PS signed. It is from this point of view that we had prepared an amendment to Article 72, which provided that the fifth point, the area of chimneys, should be deleted from the compulsory state companies. So, I charge or appeal to the Ministry, and the Minister made a firm commitment yesterday, you saw it, we heard it, we have a tape recorder and also statements in the media that the Ministry will do everything it needs to be done during this period, and then with time 31. 12. 2015 concessions to all, including those that, say, will be extended for one year, on the same deadline. This also means that we will not have a double situation in the country, that in some areas some will therefore be under concessionaires, and some would already have a chimney service, for example, in the open market, if I put it this way. So, I am very pleased that after almost 10 years, after many different words that we or you have spoken – those colleagues who have been in this congregation for a long time – we will hear on the committee, even in this Chamber, that we will hear the words of people, all of us who, apparently, were not satisfied with the situation that we have now. I hope that you will also support the amendment to the 72nd Article tabled by the parties to the coalition in the opposition's parliamentary groups, and further under the new 91st Article, which lays down transitional provisions, so that I will not advertise later in 91st Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Since I have noticed that there is still a desire for a debate, I will open the way for a discussion and ask for an application. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three panellists reported. The first is Mr. Franz Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u126	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. My greeting goes to the Secretary of State, to both colleagues and, of course, to you, to your distinguished colleagues and colleagues. My predecessors, who spoke about this topic, have relatively well exhausted this area, but since I myself have been accompanying this economic public service for many years, first as active in the local community, and later in the Committee on the Environment and Space of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of the former composition. We probably all recognize together who we are following this economic public service, that we have had a lot of problems in the past. Perhaps when the economic public service was actually in the area of the local community and the concession was awarded by the congregation, there were so many problems. However, the transfer of the economic public service to the state level has created problems along the current lane. Concessions were awarded, concessions were awarded, and huge errors occurred at the award of these concessions. In Slovenia we have obtained some large companies that have engaged in this activity, which have actually taken away this service in some way from small companies or independent entrepreneurs who have in many cases been like family businesses. The chimneyman celebrated his time as a bringer of happiness in every house, people were pleased with him, I must say that my grandmother always said to make a big sausage on her lap, that we would also give it to the chimney that provided this service, and always this service people in the past have appreciated well. With this transfer and with these, some small chimneys would also say that the Taiwanese acquisitions of people, because they were not good services, are simply not satisfied anymore. The reaction — whether it was in the SDS or it was in the coalition parties — is not that important — is that in the future we actually settle this issue so that the citizens are satisfied, that the companies that will provide this service will also be satisfied and that security will be ensured — what is crucial. That is why I cannot propose a solution on my own today, so we have a competent authority, a ministry that will also prepare these matters qualitatively. In any case, we need to think first of all, as I have already said, about security and to prepare such a solution You know, people are not willing to pay a certain service many times because they do not have good experience in the past, but perhaps they do not realize how important it is from a security point of view if all these devices are cleaned, things are arranged in a way that is essentially safe. [[...]] If this security is also guaranteed by a new solution, then we have arranged what we want in this house, including this amendment, which is too easy. It is true, however, that there is a transitional period that takes some time, and at that time there will also be an opportunity for these matters to be properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u128	Your Honor! Today in this hall we have heard a very famous Slovenian saying: A mountain has been shaken, a mouse has been born. Now, if you're looking for the equivalent of solving a chimney service, then you should find something smaller than a mouse. Yesterday we opened with Amendment 72 precisely in order for this area of chimneys in Slovenia to be definitively regulated. This is said to be deleted from the public economic service of the State and to be arranged in some other way. Yesterday it was also a guarantee that a solution would be proposed on the table today, a proposed proposal, but this amendment, which is before us today on the table, only stated deadline 31. 12. 2015, nothing else. I don't think some fellow Members understand what a transitional period is. I understand very well that certain activities, which are as important as the chimney service, cannot be turned over overnight. For me, this proposed deadline, two years, is completely understandable. But do you know when we can call it a transitional period? At a time when we already have a new model or new solution for that period so that operators can adapt to the new model. This is a transitional period. Dear colleagues, tell me, what are users, contractors preparing for today? What are they getting ready for? They have nothing to prepare for because this amendment did not bring exactly any solution! And we're talking about what we've solved now, the chimney activity. We didn't save anything! Nothing at all. We just set a deadline for the next two years to be all the same, then from 1. 1. 2016 I don't think God knows what's gonna happen. We cannot call this a transitional period because, as I have already said, we have nothing to prepare for. So I'd say this amendment brought very little. If we had known this yesterday, we would have prepared a new proposal for me tonight, and then today would have been a solution on the table, and perhaps not the best, but it would have been a solution that we could discuss, which we could upgrade, upgrade and look for a better regulation of chimneys than today. Of course, I cannot support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. And Mr. Tink Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Jurša said well, which comes from the municipal experience of the time when the municipality awarded concessions. Now we all have experience when we don't know how many hours we've had in the National Assembly and how many chimneys there have been and representatives I don't know of any organisations, how much ink has been spilled around unregulated public economic services in this area. Obviously, when the State decided to take over this public economic service, the part of the government that should or should have prepared regulations, regulations, prices was not part of the task. What Mr Jurša said about how it used to be, at times, was a fine furnace from the combustion plants and a wood stove from a fireplace. Today we have very difficult combustion plants and, as Mr Kurnjek said earlier, not everyone can set up and meet hundreds of types of burners and not know what kind of burners they all burn. Also the price fixed for services. Earlier, Mr Brulc said it didn't matter whether he cleans a chimney one block with twelve flats, one coil, and writes twelve stands, but it goes that it's not the same as when he's looking for the locals after remote traffic, and in one morning he can only clean three hens – for the same money, of course. Here are major problems: skills problems, unfair pricing problems. If the congregations were to grant concessions, anyone who applied for concessions would know what kind of work he would have to do: how many blocks, multi-housing buildings, how many villages, how many isolated homes. I would have calculated how long it would take him to earn. Now that the state has granted some concessionaires, they have taken everything. At the time, they did not have or are not yet trained, implemented or implemented everywhere, probably because it is not worth it because prices are too low in certain areas, everything is wrong and we are now listening to it. With the amendment or amendment to delete this public economic service at the level of the country, we have hoped that the Government will prepare a solution, including during this transitional period. An amendment will now be adopted where this public economic service is deleted and then provides for the law on how to continue granting concessions by the end of 2015 and not more than one year. So if someone runs a concession in early 2014, he will be given a decision by, say, early 2015 and then from early 2015 to the end of 2015, and from there he does not know what will happen. I expected the government, despite the short period of time, to sign the concessions back to the municipality and then, during that period, when all the concessions have expired, most of them will expire by the end of 2015, compare the solution, one or another, or regulate. And perhaps even those who, or a good part of those masters of chimneys who are now out of work because they have previously performed for the congregations, are now, because they have not obtained concessions without work, which is likely to be harmful, perhaps now they have come to order, and in certain congregations they have obtained work by then and could compare what is better; what was sometimes or would have been the case with the congregations, because at the same time they also provide fire safety in their territory, but this part in the countryside is very interconnected. We can also see from history that sometimes voluntary firefighters examined chimneys in villages and advised what to do and warned. Because now, in the situation of most cases going back to solid fuels and reusing furnaces or smoke coils that may not have been so burdened in the last 20 years, and now they are being used, there are smoke fires – you can look at the statistics for the previous winter, how much this has been compared to other countries and what damage has been done in this area, something needs to be done. I don't think we should wait for 2016, but in the meantime the elections will be held in 2015 if they are regular, the question of if by the end of 2015 the new government – we know that six months before the elections or nothing else, they are all preparing for the elections and then six years after the elections and the matter will hang, but this law will be in force. Then who's gonna do something? As colleague Žnidar said, why is the transition period — to adapt to the new system — a new law. That's not the case. We will accept this, give ad acta and it will happen as far as the end of 2015 is concerned. We have not changed anything, we will only delete this public economic service from this law, that it is no longer within the jurisdiction of the State. Then who owns it? Do these fire companies have these, or who, if they don't? It is decided that the government will continue to grant concessions until 2015, but I do not think this is sufficient that this is irresponsible on the part of those responsible for this public economic service. The operators may be a little calmed down and hope to arrive after 2015 if they do not hold a grudge against state officials at that time, they will remain silent. Maybe that's the point, but it's not the solution. This winter we'll have if it's like the last one, again so much and so many chimney fires. Has anyone analyzed them? Except for voluntary fire companies, probably no one. I know this, I was responsible for the congregation’s fire safety for 13 years, and I know how it is organized in the congregations and how it is concerned. Apparently no one will be responsible now; there is no more public economic service at the state level in the law; there is no record of whose is it – to whom should they complain, to St. Peter? That is why I think that the competent ministry or those responsible in the Government must take this matter seriously and find a solution as soon as possible. Of course, in the opposition, we cannot prevent this from being accepted as you have intended. However, we hoped after yesterday's debate, as Mr Kurnjek said, which was quite constructive, as usual on this committee, but someone has not done a good job to date. If you were to say yesterday, give the SDS a solution, and I would have stayed up late last night and asked someone else, and they would have found a solution; certainly better than this. This one's undefined. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr. Brultz, I know it's hard to listen. [[...]] You have a lot of blocks in Nova Gorica, yes. And even if there's a mountain up the hill somewhere, you probably don't worry too much. This way we cannot support what has been presented by the coalition. Our amendment is unlikely to be adopted or will not be a solution or a solution. That's why I'm calling on the government to do something at this time. Those contractors, concessionaires or those who have not received concessions, masters, and we will be referring from Parliament to certain government – the best thing to do is to give the right addresses to who is responsible – no more to Parliament, because the government has not done its job when it was the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. There's been more mags coming to my word. Ivan Vogrin, I don't see anyone else. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is interesting that this story about the chimney service, you will not believe a decade of history and in ten years we have failed to regulate legislation in order to be sustainable and work somehow. They are disgruntled contractors, dissatisfied citizens are users, and the Government and Parliament are obviously dissatisfied because we are amending legislation. Of course it's a sad story. You will not believe, in 2003, ten years ago, Prof. Dr. Marko Kranjec, who later became Governor of Banka Slovenije, which is now gone, wrote about this issue and stated that the matter should be resolved differently. At the time, however, I was the mayor of the municipality of Lenart, and we dealt with these problems thoroughly and practically. Now let us try to explain the matter in a slightly different way, because much has already been said on the committee and much here. Look, I'm sure protection from fire is an important area. Of course, if people don't take care of their combustion plants, there may be consequences, which we all agree on. However, let us try to explain the point or incomprehensibility of this legislation in the case. Also, a car is a vehicle used by all of us and if not maintained by the owner, it can be very dangerous, because if it does not take to the car mechanic in time to inspect the brakes to make him a service and so on, of course, at a speed of a hundred miles and a number of miles this deadly vehicle is dangerous. Interestingly, though, for this area we do not prescribe which mechanic he must drive, can choose for himself, not prescribe a price or grant a concession. Why not? I can't use the word "stupid nonsense" anymore. It's just nonsense. You see, that doesn't make any sense what the state does. The country's in a position: I know everything, I'll be the best man to handle it. That's not true. For, unfortunately, this country has failed in all fields and also in this. Thus, we must let people decide who they choose on the basis of a purely free market. However, let us define some minimum frameworks, as determined by the registration of the car. If you want to register a car, you have to have a technically flawless car, but you don't have a state code that you have to drive it to, you can take it to Austria. So this is called the liberalisation of the economy. But we're still a light-year away. Then people always wonder what is behind such arrangements. And when the Anti-Corruption Commission says that we have systemic corruption, that we may think that we are in Parliament by adopting legislation that gives monopoly and monopolies to certain groups of economic operators, the greatest promoter of so-called systemic corruption. It's not right for me to always have a vote. Look, you can't make any more wise arrangements and force yourself. So you have to ask the citizens, you have to ask them professionally, you have to ask the contractors and the government and the parliament and try to find at least a minimum consensus. And for ten years, we've literally raped each other, once, twice. However, citizens send a lot of petitions to Members of Parliament through various associations about how we are doing wrong. Would you not listen to them?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We conclude the debate by Article 72. If there's no more desire to discuss is there still a desire to discuss? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] We continue with the following Article, this is Article 73 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm opening the application. We have four panellists registered. First of all, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u134	Your Honor! The purpose of our amendment is very clear. I'll explain it very briefly. The purpose of the legislation is to be clear and short and particularly useful in practice. As a result, it is all the less important not to say ballast, to put the legislation out. It also seems to me, as in this proposal, that the consultative body has been introduced into the law itself, that this is unnecessary. For within his sphere of competence, the Minister has the possibility of establishing an unlimited number of different consultative bodies. Let me say that it is not the intention to abolish the Council for the Protection of the Environment, but that it does not have to have its basis for its operation a basis in the law. This can be done by the Minister and, of course, by listening to the opinions of NGOs, professions and other initiatives that are important for the Minister's own decision. Thus, the view is that this is already granted within his powers and that there is no need to look for such consultative bodies in the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Dragan Bosic was next reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I would agree with the predecessor in the sense that ballast does not belong to the law, but I would not agree that the Council is defined as ballast. Rather, it is a very important consultative body that has or must have its basis in marriage for a simple reason. The minister is a function called someone who can cover certain areas well or less well if I use such a term. Mag. The Jew does his work responsibly and competently, but the Council in such a composition, as proposed, says 6 environmental academics, short-term professions or racia, four from the economy, some qualified interested public, and 4 NGOs representing on the other hand an anti-cancer approach, a more emotional one, is a guarantee that the environment will be well cared for. In fact, we are talking about the Environmental Protection Act, the environment here is mentioned very few times, but it is a law that is intended for the environment. In the presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups on this subject, opinions also differed and statements in terms of global up to the environment, which pollutes the environment must be paid. One such interesting statement — that is, instead of saying that they must stop or stop in front of the witness — they must pay. So the environment here is clearly understood as some kind of market category. Therefore, there is an additional reason why this Council is necessary, compulsory, that it has its place in the law, that it hangs on the door of ministers and influences all professional decisions to the environment, of course taking account of all participants. I don't think I should forget – you mentioned environmentalists earlier. The origin of this word is based on the ancient Greek word "ojkos", but it means home, house. And if this is how we understand the environment, then we have significantly less problems, which is what affects the environment. We're very sensitive to our house. We don't let a lot of piggy shit in there, but we're pretty tolerant here. Personally, I see the Council as one of the rarely added values of the Environmental Protection Act, because the directives introduced had to be adopted meant nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u138	Hello again! You know that in the Civil Gazette, we were instigated that the Environmental Protection Council, as an institution, had been abolished in the framework of the National Assembly. We have already stressed in the debates that, if any, this Council belongs within the competent ministry and is the consultative body of the Minister. This has also saved 100,000 euros as much as this world spent a few years ago in the National Assembly. I think that this consultative body within the Ministry will cost much less than it did in the National Assembly. It may also be possible to agree and say that, in Article 41 of the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs, the representatives of the Ministry should fix me that, within the Ministry, we have a Council for Agriculture, a Council for livestock, a Council for Safe Food and that all these consultative bodies are based on specific sectoral laws, so the Ministry is probably insisting that there are no other changes to the environment. In other words, I do not care what kind of shoes the President of the Government wears, I am interested in her actions and solutions that she brings before this assembly, nor am I interested in how many consultative bodies the competent minister has, it is important that she works well, in the interest of Slovenian agriculture and the environment and, of course, at the lowest possible cost. Since Article 74 is not opened, allow me to express my regret that this article, which follows this article to the amendment that we are currently discussing, refers to NGOs, that the Committee did not take up the proposal of NGOs yesterday. I therefore call on the competent ministry to prepare a regulation on criteria for obtaining public interest status for non-governmental organisations in the field of the environment in order to ensure that these solutions are of quality and not new bureaucratic barriers. It is said that, unlike some of my predecessors, I welcome the work of NGOs, I think that they are needed to do well and that they are important interlocutors to state institutions and also to the government, and that they must go in the direction of the 74th Article to look at what these NGOs have done so far, but not that it is essential that we decide which are acting in the public interest, how many members have, or how many other stupidities, if I express myself a little more harshly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thanks again for saying that. Another body is established at the level of the government or ministry. Some governments want these different consultative councils, agencies, offices, and I don't know what to reduce, and others are setting them up. But this government wants to be liked, even though it usually happens by speaking one language and doing the other. Why do I think this world is unnecessary? If we remember in 2012, how much criticism there were about non-compliance with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, including the individual Members who were then in the opposition, now in the coalition, they were full of this resolution's mouth. But, look at him, this current coalition, the former opposition itself, has absolutely no respect for this resolution. In short, I am asked one more rhetorical question: Would this law be better, or would it be treated on a regular basis, if we already had a Council for Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection? I don't think it would have been any better because the ministry would have been looking for the solutions it represents today, they would probably have gone with the emergency procedure; in short, no new solution. It will happen as it has many times: we will have the opinion of the Council, the opinion of the Ministry, the opinion of various agencies, such as Arso. In short, three organizations, five opinions, no solution. It is only a performance for the public or a good PR minister, where there is no effect or effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? There's still one. I'm going to open up an opportunity to discuss and sign up. Here you go. We have two other panellists reported. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I really don't understand how the Government's likeness would be measured by this amendment, because it's professional work, far from politics, and that's the right thing to do. I think we really lived at a time when everything had to be stopped; what was doing good, but it's no shame if we stopped what was doing bad. If I did not now list what should remain to make this country function better, I should name only SDK if we had it, there would not be as many problems in the field as it is now. It's the Minister's advisory body, it's purely professional, it's academics, environmental experts. No minister is universal, and he can't handle all the situations, and he needs an organ like that. That there is also a non-governmental structure here is very important for a number of reasons; because at such a meeting we can sometimes calm them down, but now I have in mind a wind power plant and more, and an expert can agree on what is really what contributes to the protection of the environment, what is it that an individual invents just to prevent an activity, or an investment, or whatever. It is important that politics does not revolve around these circles because, you see, today I understand that the SDS cannot support or invest this amendment because it has collapsed because it has destroyed this world, which has worked well in the composition of good people, experts – it cannot support it and I accept it and it is a shame to discuss it further. I will uphold the law, and by no means amendment to this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Bran Golubovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u144	Good-bye! People are different, and we want people with different opinions around us, but not the others. That's a fact. The Minister, as well as some other ministers of this government, want to have people around who have different opinions on different areas. That's how I take this world. It is a consultative non-professional body in which representatives of universities, Economic Chambers, Agricultural and Economic Chambers, NGOs will be present. You know, when you bring together people who may have such diametrically opposite positions for one table, it's a major problem for a minister who doesn't want some debate or work, although he's rarely such a minister because he has to deal with them at every point they put on the table. That's because we're going to get the best solutions. That is why I believe that it is right that such a council is written in law, so that it will not be the fly of a single government or of every minister and give him some stability. I myself will support this amendment, and I believe that this world, like the rest of the two worlds, will achieve its added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Did the government want a word as well? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The government opposes the amendment to remove the world. Indeed, the question is whether it is a matter of marital matter or not; it could be discussed. However, as has already been found today, we have very good practice in other areas that belong in our work area and are also defined in marriage. What we want to achieve with the world is neither a new institution nor an expansion of public administration. It is a non-professional expert consultative body to provide a place of coordination of different views on the same matter and thus the feasibility of what we will propose and the solutions we will propose in a way that will be as good as possible for both the environment and the stakeholders and for those to whom they are intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 73. We are moving on to the debate on Article 83 or the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Is there a desire to discuss it? No, no, no. So we continue with the following article, which is article 91a or the amendment of the coalition. Is there a desire to discuss it? As I can see, there is no desire for a debate, which means that I am closing the debate on all the articles. However, amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I inform you that the consultation of the leaders of the groups of Members is still under way, so we will continue the meeting and the vote at the meeting at 4:40 p.m. So 30 minutes later. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u149	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act as a matter of urgency. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 29. Ten. 2013 which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation will, of course, support the amendment, which stipulates that the definition of banking secrecy should be changed, particularly for the reason that it is established within the banking system and, of course, within all institutions that decide on this, especially the judicial institutions, the responsibility for the situation in the banking system. Whatever we are talking about today's responsibility in the banking system, we can see that the circumstances are new and different. After all, until the last moment, if you want this summer, we were told that in Slovenia the banking system is completely stable, secure and that there is no possibility of any changes in the banking system. Then there was the so-called supervised liquidation of the two banks, where the state also provided guarantees for all the wrong decisions, the guarantee also provided that dividends had already been paid to owners before, that the loss had simply been socialised on the one hand, socialised inappropriate management and ultimately socialised responsibility for the resulting banking system. For this reason, we believe that it is a decision to support an amendment that ensures greater transparency in the banking system, which also ensures that the law that regulates the seizure of acquired property becomes much easier to operate in an illegal way. Indeed, today we can find that this law does not actually work or works very badly. This makes it necessary to support this amendment, and whoever wants the transparent and responsible functioning of the banking system will certainly support such an amendment. The Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, also depends on this support for the whole law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I can see it's not a wish. Would you like, Mr. Franz Bogovich, on behalf of the Group of Members? Yes, of course. Mr Franz Bogovich, on behalf of the SLS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u152	In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment. We are convinced that the amendment proposal with such content needs to be supported in the National Assembly, because the rakra created in the banking system is so large that it eats up the fabric of this adulterous country in which we live. And because Slovenians and Slovenians will find out about this account this year, and will pay this bill, it is only right that we in the Slovenian Parliament also allow them to have, when deciding to fill this hole in the banking system, the right and the opportunity to simply point out those who have made this system as hollow as it is today. In Parliament, we will be deciding on big things on the basis of which, in addition to gaining the confidence of those who will lend us money abroad, we will also have to gain the confidence of Slovenian taxpayers. And without clear accounts, there's no trust. I think it is time for you to be in Slovenia, even though we love to swear that various banking secrecy and everything else applies both to us and to others, we acknowledge that we are also in this part a very specific country and that we must also, at the moment we reach into the pockets of taxpayers, be cut down by such solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u154	The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment because it seems essential that we identify those responsible for the bank hole as soon as possible. If we do not do so today, we can do so over and over again in the next five, ten years. We do not want banking secrecy to continue to be an excuse for concealing all criminal activities of bankers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Yes, you do. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote. Four of them have been reported. The first one has the floor to explain the voice of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u156	Your Honor! I will personally support this amendment, because I think it is right for Slovenian taxpayers and, last but not least, for us Members of the National Assembly, who fly a great deal of evidence about the responsibility for the resulting hole in the banking system, so for all of these, and especially taxpayers, who will cover this extremely bank hole, to find out who is directly responsible for this. So who are signed under those key credit contracts, those contracts for which these leased loans are not being repaid, which the taxpayers will have to adequately cover with their own, say, gifts. But these gifts are forced, for with each new day, the government practically imposes an additional burden on them, and these people are annoyed by the actions of this government in one way or another. So, the position of Slovenian taxpayers is sharpened and it is outrageous that these bank holes are hiding behind the so-called bank secrecy and that those who pay for it must not even know what they are paying. I don't think it's right, it's not fair, it's not fair, it's not fair, and it's really about time we made an end. Therefore, I also warn colleagues and colleagues that part of the responsibility will be taken by you to continue this situation and, as a result, to hide those dedicated to so-called tax secrecy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! It is high time to stop protecting the perpetrators of economic crime within Slovenian banks, even though the financial oligarchy's instructions on how to protect and do this are so strict, know that you will not be able to insist on this forever. This truth must come to Slovenian citizens, because this is the absolutely necessary step that we must take. If we don't do it here in Parliament, then people will force this coalition to do it under pressure from people, crowds, so I'm sure, as I say, we have to do it, and I hope that the sober head will prevail and that there are no unnecessary excuses to disclose all the bank data on deposits and so on. This amendment needs to be adopted and finalized in this reading, but we need to take the necessary steps to start cleaning up, also returning the assets so that – without this – it is impossible to implement the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property, you must also be aware of it. This threshold between all those who are interested in keeping all this hidden from the Slovenian public and also from taxpayers should be broken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! 22 years ago, when Slovenia left the Yugoslav Federation, it was among the most promising countries. After 22 years, we are in serious trouble without economic grounds. We need to borrow money and survival. There's a reason for that, though. That didn't happen for no reason. As the wrong decisions in the company lead to problems, so does the country and the banking system. We are talking about so-called system banks that have protected national interest. They have indeed protected the national interest, the interest of the people of Slovenia, but if these people are always in a big hole that we don't even know what it is they are giving money to? Is that a national interest? Is that what we have to defend? I believe that it is necessary to go to concrete responsibility, because the hole is too large, the pain of the citizens is too great and I think that we are all aware of it together. When I listened to TV last Sunday, although I don't believe everything they're playing, the children's confessions explaining that they're looking forward to eating at school on Monday, because they're hungry, I also thought about the system banks that we're filling with the money of those citizens. Let's be reasonable! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u162	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! I will support the proposed amendment myself. I estimate that there are several arguments for this amendment to be supported. If we start with the controlled liquidation of two private banks, Probanks and Factor Banks, it would probably be fair to all taxpayers to expose themselves to whom taxpayers will cover over 100,000 euros. That shouldn't be necessary. This means that the taxpayer's money will go to protect certain privileges that are already too high in Slovenia. On the other hand, I think that, during today's debate, the debate has spread mainly in the wrong direction. This is not a witch hunt in relation to certain personal accounts, but, above all, to allow this amendment to be resolved by state banks when private, taxpayers so that certain institutions can get to the necessary documents sooner. I don't see any reason why we should be doing bank secrecy here. As soon as the issue is resolved with the taxpayer's money, I think it should be the interest of everyone here to expose these scams that have been happening and are still happening in the Slovenian banking system as soon as possible. Colleagues and colleagues, I urge you to support our proposal, because this proposal is primarily for the benefit of all taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. As I see that there is still an interest in explanations of vote, I am opening up the possibility of re-appealing for explanations of vote. Three, a Member and two Members have been notified. The first one has the word, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I must admit that today I have listened to an interesting discussion of the arguments "for" and "against". For the first time, I would like to highlight one picture of a situation we saw about 25 years ago when the Serbian National Bank hacked into the so-called Yugoslav bank system and stole a whole series of billions of dollars back then. The theft from the banking system went all the way across the border. Bank secrecy is not an absolute constitutional category. I am convinced that, in this case, the Constitutional Court could also go beyond the so-called proportionality test and draw up a new legal basis or a new legal precedent, where it could be found that it was an extraordinary act, to the extraordinary peak of the complete network of some people who have robbed this country for more than twenty years or even thirty years. So I think that if the willingness of all of us here were to expose these things, then this would also lead to a better feeling, even this law might establish a possible body of top-notch Slovenian legal experts, where we could find out where those proportionality tests that could prevail, and where these banking secrets could be disclosed as such. I think we should talk about this, especially because I am sure that most of you here did not make any banker decide in any way in some of these bad loans – we are talking about them. You saw yourself when we had a discussion here about a bad bank, when you said not to just recapitalise before we did any action to clarify the concepts that are, as far as the granting of these bad loans is concerned. Now, in the end, this bad bank wasn't as bad a solution as some of you talked about it. So I'm kind of calling for you to support this amendment, because I think it gives us some real basis to get to the bottom of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Even though I understand the intention of the proposer, I cannot support this amendment. Simply for a simple reason, because this amendment interferes with a number of laws and at least three articles should be amended already in this law, not to mention that a number of other laws should be amended. The law also provides for an exception where the bank provides data to the court, the State Prosecutor's Office or the police in the event that there are grounds for suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed, unless the law expressly provides for the provision of confidential information by the investigating judge. The proposaler himself is in contradiction; on the one hand, he speaks of money as a shy bird, to flee – he is using the words of the former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia – and on the other hand this is the message that not only deposits but also feeding roles run abroad. Some people just don't want to reveal how much money they have. And I'm sorry, no one can convince me with such a proposal that it would not only support some of the voyeurist tendencies, but not the actual disclosure and the tools to fight it. Once again, this amendment is in fact – and I think the proponents know this well – more about collecting political points than a reality that has been in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support this amendment alone. I hope my colleagues don't either. Much of what I wanted to say has already been said by my colleague Jerko. While this is a very attractive amendment, I am convinced that many people want exactly what the opposition is talking about, but I hope that the opposition is aware; not only does it keep repeating its tendency that members of the opposition should judge for themselves who is responsible in our country for crimes, who is responsible for the fact that there are downsides in banks, who is responsible for bank holes, I do not think that Members should be able to do so. I hope that members of the opposition are also aware that such amendments can do exactly what Mr Čehovin was talking about, that confidence in banks will be reduced and that all those people, and there are many who do not want their banking roles to be discussed in Parliament and elsewhere, to take their roles abroad, to Austria and other banks, which are already happening. So please, Members, let's stick to our work, adopt good legislation. Bank secrecy applies everywhere in Europe, as Governor Jazbec said, would be the only country in Europe that would have bank secrecy in a different way and when these people are reported, as already provided by law, and once a sufficiently high level of suspicion is given, they will be brought before a court where the main hearings are public. Then your desire to find out who they are, your voyeur tendencies, as a true colleague, will be comforted and the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to see where there is a high enough level of suspicion that he must defend himself in court for the acts he has committed in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj wanted to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think that it is the task of the National Assembly and, in particular, the Members and Members to propose such solutions in laws that will effectively address the banking crisis, which will also determine the responsibility for the emergence and development, if you want, of this banking crisis, and this amendment is one of the amendments that essentially sets it up. Certainly there is no intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party that the persecutor of the National Assembly should be here, the State Assembly that judges and so on. No, our primary task is to propose appropriate legislation in order to determine in this case the liability, liability for the situation in the banking system, responsibility for the fact that two private banks have gone into so-called controlled liquidation, which in the future is likely to result in the actual bankruptcy of these banks, and responsibility for determining here also who has granted loans that did not have adequate guarantees, including on the basis of friendly, political ties or any other clienteleistic ties. Here the provision applies to all, not just some and not only those whom the National Assembly or Members or Members would like to see; a transparent provision applies to all. As a result, we cannot say here that it is just some, just voyeurism, this is a matter of transparency and a transparent solution in the Banking Act. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to explain my voice, if you don't mind, to open another round. I would like to ask those who wish to explain their voices to find out that we will then proceed to the vote. I'm opening the application. The first one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment. This is the third opportunity in the last two months to properly regulate legislation in the area of so-called bank tycoons. So far, we've dealt with all the other tycoons, and now this part that concerns the operation of banks needs to be regulated. It has to be said that the shy bird has flown away. If a shy bird hadn't flown away, then there wouldn't be a budget crater in our banks. Now all that remains is the fearsome birds that the coalition protects to take full responsibility for bad conduct in the banking system. I think it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to regulate system law in such a way that it is able to implement it, that it is driven by this legislation so that it is possible to carry out liability procedures so that we can carry out this matter in some appropriate way and find out the actual situation. Now we have difficulty blocking this amendment and protecting those who have acted in certain banks as supervisors, as members of administrations, now perform political functions and this is obviously a preventive coalition measure. In no other way is it possible to detect the causes of a hole in the banking system, in no other way, to open the files in order not to detect all bad conduct. And it's obviously a coalition that will do everything to protect those who actively participated. In some normal circumstances, there was no fair part of this bank hole in the Slovenian system. As I say, I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group mainly because a new third paragraph is being added which incurs members of the administrations and supervisory councils to disclose the information referred to in Article 214 of this Act in the case of companies or banks that have received State aid. We have recently had a debate in the National Assembly on private banks, which, of course, we have very richly rewarded, so that some have been waving their pockets with millions of loans, unsecured loans, and finally the state has to cover their loss. It is certainly right and I am very surprised that Members and Members of the Coalition do not agree with this amendment, with this provision, and you think that we want to look at all the data in this way. This is not the purpose of this amendment, but it is the purpose of this amendment that finally, as has been said many times before, those who have come to the fore and to settle losses in banks that have received loans by obtaining such loans that do not have coverage in their assets or in their wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. It is formerly on behalf of the Group of Members and now on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u176	I have presented the position of the Group of Members, and now I will have my own personal position. Many of you have debated today that already under the current legislation we can reach those responsible, those who caused the collapse of the Slovenian banking system. If this claim were true, then today I would have had the names and surnames of those who gave credit to beautiful eyes who gave million credits without real coverage. However, since this is not the case, I think that this amendment should be adopted, that a step should be taken to reach those responsible and finally find out who are the ones who lead the Slovenian banking system from the background. Finally, the well-respected coalition and the opposition will be expected to devote millions to the resolution of the banking system. Obviously, it is too much to expect these Members, all of us together, to know who is responsible for the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm interrupting. The vote is now under way. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting on the law. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members attended, 49 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 29. Ten. 2013 which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 15 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 18 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to Article 72. Three amendments have been tabled. First, we decide on the amendment tabled to the 72nd Article of the Coalition, namely the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under order number 2 and number 3 are irrelevant. The amendment is linked to the amendment for the new article 91a. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of both ministries! Today we have had or still have the ideal opportunity to at least try to regulate the area of chimneys. Probably for any of us a new subject, one way or another, we face it in our daily work. Yesterday on the committee we proposed an amendment to the SDS Group, which is quite similar to this amendment, but unfortunately, your purpose in this amendment is good, but with the amendment to the 91st article, make this law invalid. Yesterday, the minister promised that today they would draw up a proposal for amendments that would follow the gradual transition to the market system of chimneys. For the STA, the Minister said that a political agreement would be reached to amend the Environmental Protection Act, which would introduce a market system in the area of chimneys, but none of which would be possible. By means of today's law or this amendment, you only extend the existing state to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Moreover, with this amendment, you also give comfort to those poor concessionaires in the area of chimneys, which are largely mentioned by the two Courts of Auditors. You give them the comfort of knowing that, even though the concession contract had previously expired, the ministry — perhaps in a beautiful way — would obviously be able to do so until now — grant a decision and extend the concession contract to one year. In short, with this amendment and this solution, we are certainly not approaching the ideal that we are all following, that is to say, probably for all the acceptable German model of regulation of the chimney area. In the SDS Group, we hoped when the minister and the team promised yesterday that they would propose an amendment that everyone would like, which our citizens and citizens would also like, but unfortunately there was nothing. In short, good purpose, bad performance, nothing new, citizens will still be mean to concessionaires, whether they are good or bad. We cannot support such an amendment in the SDS Group. We are really thinking today about who should be proposing the law or certain amendments to the article of the Environmental Protection Act, so that we can finally regulate the area of the chimney problem, because the ministers in this area have not proved themselves in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the proposed amendment of the coalition. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the amendment of the coalition to Article 72 has been adopted. The amendments under order numbers 2 and 3 of the SDS Group are therefore irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 73. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 73 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 83. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on a new one, i.e. a new 91st member of the coalition's parliamentary groups, namely PS, SD, DL and DeSUS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 20. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the new article 91a or the proposed amendment of the coalition to this article has been adopted. I therefore note that we have ended our vote on the amendments tabled and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that, in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendments to Article 72 and to Article 91a of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles? Please, you have the floor. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The Group of Members will prepare an amendment to one of the articles, so that you are aware of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much. According to your announcement, I interrupt this agenda item or I also interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed 10 minutes after the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that in 15 minutes, we will begin the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly at 5.35 p.m. and we will continue the 18th Session of the National Assembly 10 minutes after the extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u182	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection in the framework of the urgent procedure We are coming to a debate and a decision on individual amendments and articles. I am putting to the debate Article 72 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since I see that the desire to discuss is expressed, I open the application for a debate, please apply, every debater has a five-minute opportunity to discuss. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you, Madam President. We're talking about the amendment to Article 72, the issue of chimneys. At this hour, I believe that many people are already falling apart and that smoking is not a priority, but tomorrow we will probably have other topics No, I speak for myself and also on behalf of the SDS Group, for colleagues from SD who are already a little difficult to follow, we are not yet there before the vote. [[...]] In short, we have prepared two amendments for this third hearing, we regret that, despite the fact that it may be good for individual changes to come quickly, but obviously the changes have gone too fast. Therefore, we want to make these amendments a transitional period from today to 31. 12. 2015 a little more liberal, a little more [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u184	May I have your attention, please, Mr. Lisec?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam President. We want to do a little bit more in this direction, which we are probably all following, but unfortunately with this law, if we read it as a whole, at least these articles that touch on chimney issues, we will not be able to solve it properly. We want the Ministry or the Government here to make a precise provision that the concession during this period, as the Ministry imagines, may extend for one year, that the concession cannot be granted to persons who do not comply with the conditions laid down, is not subject to a procedure for the withdrawal of concessions or to a proven breach of the concession contract. To this we were led by two Court of Auditors audits, which in very thick letters pointed out what was wrong, how all concession contracts were breached, but there was no result; no concessions were withdrawn, no responsibilities by the Ministry or officials. We want it to be at this time since 31. At least part of it begins to regulate and then we can really say that with 1. 1. However, 2016 will have a new minister who will, at least hopefully, regulate the area of chimneys as developed European countries do. With the second amendment to Article 72, we want what the Minister always promises, but unfortunately, it does little less to come to the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, to review the sub-legislative acts together and to receive the previous opinion of our Committee on Agriculture and the Environment. Why does this seem so important to us? We believe that any good law, at least of which we thought, but no matter what kind of government was left or right, upper or lower, ours or yours, if we have adopted a law, and then in the transitional and final provisions allowed this to be governed by sub-legislative acts, are officials at the Ministry, especially here I speak for the Ministry or for officials in the work of the environmental work, which I think are some rakranas in the area of construction of buildings, spatial construction, planning, agriculture and elsewhere, where they stick their noses and their papers, instead of making them more complicated, even impossible to do. That is why we want the Minister to come to the National Assembly for an opinion, because if we make stupid decisions there, then people will be able to say that we Members have taken or helped this solution. Now it is that people come to demonstrate, as it is today, before the National Assembly, but all decisions are taken both in Gregorčič, Jerjavčev or in another ministry, of course when we come home, but we are Members of Parliament for all the needs of a bad solution in this country. That is why we believe that today is the last moment to make a good purposeful marriage with a poor implementation of at least a little more lifelike, even with the help of these two articles. We therefore hope that the members of the coalition will also support us in these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Fox. Anybody else want to discuss this? I am opening an application for a debate because I see more desire for a debate. We are discussing both amendments tabled and please focus on the content of the amendments in the debate. Four panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! With the adoption of the amendment to Article 72, and also with the new 91.a, I think we have begun with the beginning of the end of the current regulation of chimneys in Slovenia. Here I would like to focus now on the first amendment tabled by the SDS party, where it speaks, to whom no concession can be granted. I would like to point out that this has also been resolved in the new Article 91a. Previously, my colleagues and I have also talked about the fact that with a smaller difference, where article 91a does not in fact state that they are not covered by concessionaires who have already been proven to be infringements. But if we read it correctly, I think we can capture them. So these are the concessionaires who have to meet the conditions and there has not been a procedure against them. This is how we think that this amendment could essentially be followed by a new 91st article, which has already been confirmed today. As much as I understood earlier when you announced that you would table amendments to submit an amendment to article 91a, which would make more sense from my point of view. As far as that hand goes, one more time. 31. 12. 2015 was set up to prevent a double situation in our country; therefore, there would be no concessions still in place, but elsewhere we would have acted on the new system. As I have already said today, by a certain date, the ministry will have to prepare a whole new system of chimneys. I expect, of course, that you will do so by the end of the following year at the latest, so that all concessioneers or those who are currently engaged in a chimney activity can also be properly prepared and that you will do everything you can to avoid any possible lawsuits, although most likely we will not be able to do so for all. So, once again: somehow I also expect that you will be colleagues from the SDS party, which, in principle, you have advocated on the Committee yesterday in the direction of this position, which we have made with the amendment to Article 72 and with the new 91st article, that you will confirm and give some new power to change this legislation in the area of chimneys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The Court of Auditors found a number of irregularities in the implementation of concessions in respect of the chimney service. At the Ministry, officials are obviously not in favour of this task, and also inspectors do not sufficiently identify these violations. If this law is adopted today in such a way that some concessionaires who will be awarded concessions in the following year will have a year and a half by the end of 2015 for a new concession, we propose not to grant concessions to those concessionaires who are in the running of the concession contract and who have been found in their work to be infringements – not only in those where the procedure for the withdrawal of concessions has been initiated, because we know that these infringements have been significantly more than the cases that the procedure for the withdrawal of concessions has been initiated, which depends on some officials at the Ministry. In view of the situation, it is likely that the inspection will quickly begin to detect these violations and that there will be more of them. Why not get work or concessions for those contractors who have now lost their jobs as masters of their profession, because the concessions were granted by the State only to some operators and they have a monopoly. That's our wish. Not only where concessions are initiated, but also where infringements have been detected or concessions will continue. I think that would be fair on the part of the state. This is our addition to what Mr Kurnjek said was already in 91st article following their proposal. This is what we want to achieve with this amendment. I think it would be fair for all those honest performers, masters of their profession who are now out of work. However, some who do not do well have work, and we have a lot of problems, both we and probably the ministry and those officials working on it, probably the least concerned about what is on the ground. But we've talked so much about these chimneys and these services that it's really a shame, because if we're not able as a country to arrange for some sort of cleaning of chimney seals, I don't know what else we're capable of. And that we have to deal so much with it, because it's perfectly logical for us to do this in the local community, much better than the state has arranged with its own, say, academically-titled officials. I've said many times that the CAP is missing, especially with officials, it's a healthy farmer's mind. Here the whole of Slovenia can laugh at us, how we have arranged this area. It was easy in the old days, and everything worked out, and now we're making things so complicated that no one else gets out of it. That's the essence of this amendment. We want at this time until the end of 2015, while these concessions still exist, at least partially to make an additional order in this area and to take action with its officials, officials somewhere to work more conscientiously, and inspections. People are obliged to arrange for them, as far as possible We are aware that concessions exist until 2016 and more and if we are going to stop now, that the lawsuits will be a constitutional judgment and I do not know what else to do to do more damage than benefit. [[...]] But for those where the concession goes, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] To the honest ones, let them have some work to do. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u191	Your Honor! I'm going to be a little more concrete and a little bit more direct or even simpler than my predecessors. In this amendment, we want to address the actual violations of concessionaires. There are quite a few cases in Slovenia where the infringements of concessionaires have been proven, but the errors of officials have not led to the final epilogue. This is how these violators today sue the country and the state pays compensation from its budget as a result. Thus, this purpose of our amendment is very clear and adds that for proven infringements of the concession contract. This person who does not meet the prescribed conditions cannot be extended the concession mainly from a rational approach, so that we do not come back to such cases as this moment in our country, which has been confirmed and also established by the Court of Auditors and after all, I would say what the state budget which pays for such anomalies feels. Subsequent to the following paragraph, a number of provisions should be adopted when amending or re-establishing chimney-based services. Here we propose that the Government obtain a previous opinion on the committee responsible, this is said on the Committee on the Environment and the premises of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is a meaningful amendment and we propose that such an amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u193	Your Honor! First, at the beginning of this session. Look, what Lisec allowed himself to say about the Social Democrats, that we are not able to work in a concentrated way, is your definition – obedience and I think it's insulting for everyone here. And that the hope of hearing at the previous point to insult so all Members here – Mr. Hear first show what you have done in life, then you will insult the other Members! Look, these two amendments are really something extraordinary, they make a lot of difference in solving problems and in the quality of this law. I congratulate you for coming in at this late hour with these changes. It's nothing! The concession cannot be granted now after 91st Article to those who have abused the concession in any way, to do unfairly and so on. That makes sense! No minister can extend the concession, no one! Most of the concessions were awarded by Minister Podobnik, then in that start. Then what happened to everyone was another question. But now we want to clean these things up, and this bill we're talking about is regulating these things, and I don't think there's any need for us to go here now with the amendment to Article 72, because article 91a clearly defines this. He can't get a concession who has any negative judgment. And I will not mention what all – even customer ratings and so on. So I don't know why we've been waiting for these two amendments tonight that don't actually bring anything special to the quality of this law. I thought you'd be processing this 72nd article a little differently and then it'd be more useful. I suggest that we do not support these amendments because they are unnecessary and that we support the law, as we have prepared it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Žnidar asked for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u195	Dear Mr. Brultz! If, in your opinion, these amendments are unnecessary, then I would like to ask for an answer as to why we are paying compensation to violators from the state budget today. Then please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u196	Thank you very much. There's no replica on the replica. It's a replica. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u197	Dear Mr. Brultz. If my age bothers you, I do not know – I respect your opinion, I also respect you as a member of the National Assembly, and I respect that you have been elected and that is how I will always act. I was elected to the National Assembly on the basis of elections, democratically, like you, and I believe that if I had done as much bad as the Social Democrats had done in the past in Slovenia, I would certainly have thought about where I am and perhaps thinking about other services. However, I would ask you to apologize, at least to me and Mr Lisco, I think you have gone a little too far, as your colleague is spending last week, but I don't want to talk about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u198	Mr Pojbič asked on a procedural basis and then Mr Pojbič raised his hand earlier, but raised his hand during Mr Chuš's discussion or replica. [[...]] Here you are, Mr Pojbič, by giving you the Presidency's warning, all of you, so that we do not embroil and go beyond the scope of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u199	Madam Vice President! First of all, I can't believe that before I even say A, you're trying to teach me how to behave, what I can say and what I can't do. This is indeed absurd of all absurdities, this has never happened before in the National Assembly and has never happened; therefore, dear Madam Vice-President, I ask you to learn at least the basic elements that are necessary for you to be able to conduct the meeting of the National Assembly. Why did I propose procedurally? Madam Vice-President, I very much ask you to warn Mr Brulco or the Slovenian public that Mr Brulc is not in the government, he is not in the government, he said, look at the magnetogram: "We have done this in the government." Since when does Mr. Brultz sit in the government? Madam Vice-President, please explain to the Slovenian public that Mr Brulc is a member of the coalition, who, in any event, with their solutions to the Slovenian people and, on the other hand, this Mr Brulc has never sat in the Slovenian government. Please inform the Slovenian public when I conclude this procedurally that Mr Brulc is telling lies that are not standing and are not holding. But he can read the magnetogram, and you'll see that I've been telling the absolute and complete truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u200	Dear Mr. Pojbich! Before your proposal, I gave a warning to both of you who will have a procedural proposal. Therefore, it was not in any way considered that I would not trust you that you would not know after so many years of work in the National Assembly to make a procedural proposal. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you very much. It's over. But the meeting, I see, is very difficult for all; for young people as well as some other Members. But I would warn everyone that after all these hours, let's stop complaining. And Mr Hearst, when you run out of arguments, and others from SDS, you use the name of Potrate and Črnak Meglič, which is very incorrect. I would ask that if you're already attacking the Social Democrats, at least let our ladies out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, would you like to discuss it? Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Madam President, I propose that you conduct the meeting as you do for the presidency. Now, if seniors are attacking juniors, it would be good to stop such attacks, because it doesn't belong to anything, it's no added value. Mr. Brulc was not talking about the amendment, Mr. Weber, to this point of the agenda, he was talking about Mr. Chus. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no! I understand, just understand that you are the chairman of those who are in an approximately adequate manner obliged to conduct the meeting. At one point in the agenda, it is not possible to cut down each debate to the ground if it is not the way you want it, but at the other point in the agenda it is allowed all – ten minutes after the meeting was concluded in that part. And the presidents, we suggest you study how you will conduct the session. equal, fair to all those who debate in this Chamber. Not that you have one criterion for members of the coalition, but for members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's not working. If you're talking about arguments, no one answered when I put the thesis or asked if the measures you're proposing are fair or fair burden sharing, Mr Han. Nobody! You had time, you didn't spend it, you could comment then, and you're now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u204	I suggest procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u205	At this point in the agenda, you are now commenting on what and how. [[...]] You had plenty of time. Once again, Madam President, I would like you to place the same vats for the debaters of the coalition and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I assume that you have given this proposal to all the presidents, and we will certainly take this into account in the future, as we have done so far. Anyone else want to discuss it, or do you want to, Mr. Breznik? Excuse me? [[...]] [[...]] Replica to Mr. Brulco. Here you go, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u207	Just a few sentences, maybe first to Mr. Brultz. With his interlocutors twice "let's go home, let's vote", I felt that some, as is happening repeatedly, in the last kind of Social Democrats are changing their powers and I just responded to his interlocutors. As far as I'm concerned, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u208	No offense!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u209	I just responded to Mr. Brulco's words. As for its implementation, I hope that Mr Brulc has read a revision of the Court of Auditors; otherwise, I can give him material, where he writes exactly what is wrong with smoking in Slovenia. Our two amendments were tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service did not say anything was wrong, and with this "let's go home, let's vote, you have no idea what you're investing, everything is unrelated" This is not because if it were, we would probably be notified by the Legal and Legal Service and would withdraw the amendment. [[...]] [[...]] In short, we, with these two amendments – Mr Brulc, to make it clear – are saving at least part of what your minister and members of the coalition on the committee said yesterday what they would do. I must say that unfortunately in the SDS we were too kind to the Minister of the Jews again, we believed his good words, but it turned out more: good words, bad deeds. Yesterday we proposed almost exactly the same amendment as today, and we also at the Legal and Legislative Service yesterday in the debate say that if our amendment is adopted, we will prepare solutions in the transitional and final provisions which would be – and I assure you, Mr Brulc, that you will sleep much better and much more in the direction of what the Minister is saying, and much less in the direction of what the Minister is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it, Mr. Tanko? [[...]] You too, Mr. Breznik. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor, then Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I am now merely asking whether it is logical for a State to grant a concession to a person who does not fulfil the conditions, whether the procedure for withdrawing concessions has been initiated against him or whether that person has already been proven to be in breach of the concession contract. That's the question now. Our amendment is aimed at preventing acts and granting concessions to persons who have not acted in accordance with the rules and are therefore subject to certain procedures or do not meet the conditions for granting the concession. All those who talk about how the stupid amendment is proposed or unnecessary are defending a diametrical opposite solution; you defend that the Minister is allowed to grant a concession if he is in the process of withdrawing it, if he has infringed it or if he does not meet the conditions. So the point of the debate on this amendment is more than obvious. We advocate a solution where no one can be granted a concession if he has so far acted contrary to regulation, rules, law or conditions. The other thing that seems very problematic to me and has not actually found a place anywhere is that there are many irregularities in this area in the ministry itself. We were informed that a large compensation was paid to one of the concessionaires, almost EUR 200 000 only because someone in the ministry was silent, said because of the organ's silence, and did not respond to the matter in the process. Worse still, it is unlikely that this person or this chairman of this body will be sanctioned. As regards the area of chimneys, it is at least as important as the findings and irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors as those of the famous canteen story when the former Minister of the Environment, Mr Erjavec, was sanctioned. In this case, when it comes to solving this problem, and this problem has a long beard longer than buckets, nothing actually happens: no sanctions have been imposed against anyone, not against the President, says the Minister, not against those who caused the silence of the Authority in the Ministry. This is where things go by – there is no reaction. On the other hand, you solve budget problems with the burdens of the socially weak families and even sit on their property. This penalty will also go out of budget because of the Authority's silence. Will it be covered by someone else — Mr. Jew, who is the chairman of this body, whether it will be paid by the Secretary of State or by the director of the Directorate or by someone else? The 185 000 euros that will have to be paid in one way or another by the budget. I'm asking and I want an answer. The representative of the Ministry is here. The representative of the Ministry may also comment on whether the amendment proposed makes sense or not. I think that it is necessary to protect ourselves against all the potential harmful practices that the representatives of the executive branch can do. And this amendment is going in the direction of prevention, going in the direction of state and consumer insurance in this case. I would like to ask the representative of the ministry nicely, now that Mr jedan is not present at the plenary session of the National Assembly, he may also have some action from Nordic walking to come and explain these matters. Because otherwise, I will be forced to take another break before the vote. I think we need to ensure some credibility in the National Assembly. We adopt the law on environmental protection by emergency procedure and there is no minister, the Secretary of State – perhaps so on. In short, you don't guarantee what you promised. It can happen, gentlemen, that I will also demand this in the next step.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since we are here witnessing multiple repetitions of each other, not least the insult itself, by exploiting all possible procedural procedures, I propose that we vote on this. This is that, in accordance with Article 67, any Member or Member may speak only once about this topic, because otherwise we will be hearing here with an argument to discuss chimney services, various war killings and what else I know. In short, I propose a procedural proposal that everyone can discuss the same subject only once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I'm putting to the vote your procedural proposal. In accordance with Article 67, paragraph 5, we are voting on your proposal that the National Assembly may, on a proposal from the President or a Member, decide that the speaker may only discuss the same issue once. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 49, for 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that Mr Jani Möderndorfer's procedural proposal has been adopted. Everyone discusses only once from now on. The next one is Mr. Franz Breznik. Do you have a procedural, Mr. Jože Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. I see that the coalition is trying to limit the debate in every way possible on a topic that is extremely topical. Well, you can laugh, I just want to know what the Ministry's view of what I asked and didn't explain. Does the government advocate a solution to get a concession from someone who does not meet the conditions? Is it possible to obtain a concession from someone who is in the process of verifying the acts in this concession or because of violations or who has already been proven to have been violated? I suggest that those of you who are competent for this answer give it. We don't need a government representative, if he doesn't speak, at a meeting of the National Assembly. He probably has other important activities, tasks within his powers, rather than actively sitting at a meeting of the National Assembly and monitoring what is going on. We have this debate about the amendments so that we can get answers to what we propose if someone disagrees. Again; Mr Weber, I suggest you do everything you can to get representatives or ministers here if possible, if not possible, and someone else. Now, we always get someone else. Always. Ministers, however, have time for all leisure and other activities within various hobbies, etc. Look, we have work to do here. The government also, when we have their agenda items, should also be here, unless there are things that are not available, but that is not the rule. You recently assured us that you would do anything to get competent interlocutors here. However, even when a competent interlocutor, as a rule of procedure, cannot be provided by the Minister, I suggest that those who come here respond, comment, explain. This isn't happening. I'm sorry. This isn't happening today either. We had a case before when he spent a third of his time answering, and now he won't. I'd like to explain what I've given. With regard to these restrictions, I suggest that you do not use this because there are other mechanisms for extending the sitting, not just by discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I find that on the basis of the Government's document, it is a letter dated 16. Ten. In 2013, where the list is listed, a review of the cooperation of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the 18th regular meeting of the National Assembly, stating in this review that in point 4 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection, there will be an urgent procedure, in addition to the Minister of Mag. Dejana jedan also participated in the Mag. Andrea Jerina, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, whom I warmly welcome and give her the word she asked for.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Madam President. We know that there are a number of problems in the area of chimneys, especially in the past period. I can say that, this year, the government has taken a very intensive approach to addressing the problems in this area properly. That is why we have already sent more than ten procedures into the government procedure with a proposal to withdraw the concession where concessions have been found to have been violated and there has been a breach on the ground. What you are proposing not to grant concessions to those who do not meet the conditions is perfectly clear, and these matters do not happen to be awarded to those who are found to be in breach of the conditions or to those for whom the withdrawal procedures have already been concluded. And if we properly understand the new 91st article, it's also written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u219	Madam Vice President, at last, thank you for your floor. I'd still go back to Article 72. I see you're funny, which I'm glad to do. First of all, the amendment we proposed is a living one. It is in this sense that it withdraws the concession at the beginning of a procedure. In the media, as well as in the judicature of the courts, we can see a whole series of tragic accidents that have occurred in the resorts where these resorts have been misinstalled for years and years, have been obsolete or have had deficiencies, and a number of concessionaires have gone through this and have not noticed anything. The last example is that someone brought a literal kitchen tap into a drain pipe and the child, I think, was a minor, poisoned with carbon monoxide. I think right now in the higher court this trial has been concluded with some compensation. Look, we have a whole bunch of people, and on the other hand, you're saying that you're working, that there's a whole bunch of laws in government procedure. Look, it's simple, you don't have to invent warm water at all. Take a ride to Bayern and you'll see a solution that's optimal is a combination of concessions and licenses. Those who prove this knowledge – users, citizens and citizens, have a choice on the market today. With this amendment, which we are now proposing, we are simply trying, as far as we can, to correct this legislation at least a little in the sense that those who have already violated it have started a procedure to withdraw this licence from them at the moment that they can approach this concession someone next. That's the point of all this. This could be done, not that these proceedings are brought before the courts and then nothing happens and it still carries out such a concession. That's the first thing. I don't know why we can't get some normal smoker marriage together! You say you're saving the country, but you can't get some normal chimney law together. Look at the practices across the border! Finally, it is in this law that people, who are of the lowest order of society, have to use hothouses for solid fuel. Those privileged with money have heat pumps worth a few tens of thousands of euros and are not covered by this law. So those who today advocate liberalism, those who are representatives of pensioners, where right now a whole bunch of pensioners can't get warm, are back on solid fuels, on trees, they're in here. And if it comes to a place like Ruša, Lenart, someone who's violated it gets taken away from him and the next concessionaire comes. This is also some pressure to provide quality services, not to drag proceedings into the courts for years, but to withdraw his concession at a time when he is suspected of having done and violated badly. That's what's normal. At this point, we could make a law. The combinations of licenses and concessions should be, in a combination known by Germany. This means a greater choice and also comparable prices. Of course, as such legislation now speaks, we should take into account and maintain a complete user record, where the country would monitor this user record. It's a simple matter! We shouldn't be discovering hot water right now! We lose hours, days and weeks with some partial chimney solutions. And the people of God, we have had – the demonopolization of this country must take place here in this area. There must also be a greater choice and such a marriage solution could easily be prepared. Not that we're arguing here right now whether one amendment is better or the other amendment is better. I don't think that's appropriate. Here we are wasting the time it takes for those laws that are more necessary, even though I think it is necessary. Above all, it is necessary because it wrongs those of the most vulnerable groups, because it is those of themselves and their families who are heating through the combustion plants that are on solid fuel and who need to be inspected annually. Look, I don't know why we haven't introduced you to some sane solution. I don't know why we've been losing months and months here. I don't know what kind of experts we need. I really don't understand. Therefore, somehow I appeal to you to support at least this amendment to Article 72, which makes it clear that someone who has violated it may be able to grant concession at the moment of loss, but not to wait for us, is or is not going to complain or will not complain. Share the next one at once. which, of course, also fulfils the technical conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on both amendments. We first decide on the first amendment of Article 72 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of Article 72 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the second reading, the draft law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. Do you want to explain on behalf of the Group? Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u221	Your Honor! We will not support the proposed law on environmental protection in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Because the law does not follow the simplification of procedures, does not reduce bureaucracy and does not solve, I would say, the most acute problem of chimneys in our country. On the contrary! The law establishes and seeks the basis for the advisory bodies of the Minister, even though we know that the Minister has the power to do so and can establish an advisory body by the profession, by NGOs and by other institutions. The law then excludes the application of the Law on the Construction of Buildings in the Field of the Silence of the Authority and thus gives a sign to the issuing authority of the environmental agreement that the final date of issue is incorrect. Last time, I'd say the hottest thing: nothing went wrong with smoking. With this proposal, I would say, from yesterday's promise, we only got a deadline, but it's not a transitional deadline, because we don't know what the contractors are going to do, so users are going through these two years. This is said to be completely in the air and does not solve the existing problems of smoking in Slovenia. As a result, we can only wish that there will be no more irregularities, that there will be no lawsuits and that the state budget will not again pay the budget and thus make the financial situation worse in our country. In short, the law is not good, does not improve the situation, and the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support it as a result.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, and the vote was 24. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 18th session of the National Assembly and welcome you. Good night.
